your ideas on climate protection, brilliantly prepared by connie hedegaard, your ideas on energy efficiency - these could be the job engines in the european union.
but you don't have time to waste.
for it is only through a legally stable environment, based on the rule of law, democratic principles and fundamental rights, that the confidence of citizens, partners and investors can be gained and maintained.
minority rights, sign language rights, environmental rights, anti-gmo rights, which i think could be considered by any european country.
the previous constitution did not protect the environment, which was destroyed and ruined, and the previous constitution did not protect civil liberties, because it did not protect civilians from police brutality, and it allowed paramilitary organizations to keep minority groups in fear.
but it is also very clear to all of us that durban did not produce the perfect outcome for climate change.
it is clear to me that 2012 is going to be a very tough year for international climate negotiations, for a number of reasons.
we have american elections coming up, we have a new chinese leadership coming in and, for instance, we have an incoming conference of parties (cop) president who is a relative newcomer to international climate negotiations.
we also know that before too long we will have a new report from the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) and, if one thing is for sure, it is not going to require us to be less busy on addressing the ambition gap.
before 1 may we have to come up with so-called quantified emission-limitation or reduction objectives – a very technical thing but something that is also, of course, of political importance, and we will have to discuss our own low-carbon pathway.
we in the commission hope that now, during the danish presidency, we will have council conclusions in march on the low-carbon strategy and that, with the good help of parliament, we will have an ambitious energy efficiency directive within the next six months.
so there are things in the pipeline that make it do-able for europe to step up our own ambitions, not least through energy efficiency.
my fifth and last point is that rio+20 is coming up and there are a number of issues – pricing, access to sustainable energy and other matters – on which we could make progress in rio in june, thus indirectly benefitting the international climate agenda.
after all, this is now the basis for a global climate agreement, on which we will then have to work very hard in the next few years until 2015. unfortunately, we have not succeeded in extending this single track kyoto 2. unfortunately, that's only 15 percent left.
but at least you can see that we are now able to say that the world's climate map has changed very much.
i also have to commend climate diplomacy with the coalition of these 120 countries.
it would also be a signal to the us to abandon its refusal and join the mainstream of international climate change policy.
i would like to start with something very simple and explain to the colleagues what we are talking about when we talk about e-waste, because many people say: "oh, you with your e-waste, it is all unimportant.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of waste management in the community, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take this into account in its future work.
the willingness to link european environmental policy with economic criteria has been pitifully small.
this approach can and should be exemplary for environmental legislation.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
it is essential that waste devices containing nanomaterials are treated separately.
nanomaterials can become hazardous to humans and the environment during the recycling process.
it's about the energy-saving bulbs.
energy-saving lamps are useful and save 80% of electricity compared to incandescent bulbs.
so i've joined with my colleagues in a petition to recall energy-saving light bulbs and other small appliances in the store.
finally, about the past and why i have said that the environment and business are both under consideration today.
commissioner, i think you have just hit the nail on the head in that we all agree that we are in a position to start a third industrial revolution in europe if we understand that we see the opportunities for sustainability as an industrial opportunity.
today we can say: we the european parliament, the council and the commission have made major improvements in environmental and consumer protection, but also in the area of faster and easier european authorisation.
we in parliament will not lose sight of the need for a directive on the sustainable use of biocides, just as we will monitor the implementation of the regulation, which is now the responsibility of the member states.
climate, traffic and many other external factors can hamper application or prevent large-scale implementation.
the increase in expenditure on energy and agricultural equipment is particularly felt by farmers.
a good compromise has been reached here, which allows for the sustainable use of biocides and further reduces the potential risks associated with their use.
and if we as consumers are the main responsible for this waste, we simply have to come up with more policy.
the starting point is certainly the minimum durability of food, which often leads to excessive care and, therefore, of course, to food waste.
so we should learn from those who are most sustainable in their food.
the european parliament has this week dealt with a central issue in the industrialized world: food waste.
in germany, we are already quite good at recycling compared to many other eu countries, but many important raw materials are also lost in e-waste, legally or illegally.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not sent to developing countries and that people are not poisoned by it.
i am glad that the environment ministers and parliament have been able to reach an agreement on this.
- "no more food waste", i can only agree.
60% of food waste in european households could be avoided.
the commission has concluded that one fifth of food ends up in the waste stream as a result of incorrect handling of the minimum shelf-life.
i can therefore only support the call to declare 2013 the year of information and education on food waste.
we all have a responsibility to prevent food waste and to raise awareness throughout europe.
it calls on the commission and the member states to implement concrete measures to halve food waste by 2025, to increase the efficiency of the food industry and, in particular, to educate the public on this issue.
besides the ethical questions of how to afford this when so many people do not even have the bare necessities, there are the environmental costs and the cost of disposal.
so we are all called to be more sustainable in our approach to food, and we politicians should be less likely to make regulations for the food industry that will make the problem worse.
we are determined to get more out of it, for instance by finalising the digital market and the energy market.
it will significantly bolster the outlook for fiscal sustainability and euro-area sovereign debt and therefore enhance economic growth.
by bringing to the table concrete proposals to tackle youth unemployment and to finance smes, the commission broadened the perspective towards the issues that are of greatest concern to all our citizens – jobs and growth, sustainable growth.
we know that in the infrastructure sector, in the energy infrastructure sector, the programmes would actually be ready, and we could go into them.
we need a pact for sustainable growth and employment.
we need public investment programmes for the environment and education, and above all we need a parliamentary voice of the european parliament and the citizens.
that's what you need to make energy.
all the facts, including the latest report from the international atomic energy agency, indicate that military use is being sought.
the civil use of nuclear energy is uncontrollable.
it thus invokes the right to the civil use of nuclear energy guaranteed to all states in this treaty.
neither intelligence agencies nor the latest report from the atomic energy commission provide any hard evidence that iran is building, preparing or planning nuclear weapons.
in brazil i will focus in part on iran as well as our work with brazil on development and our work together in the un human rights council; and in mexico, where they have played such an important role in recent days, on climate change and on some of the challenges that they face in their part of the region.
i met the south african foreign minister in november, again to discuss some of the issues that are extremely important – and south africa’s work with the eu in durban on the climate change discussions has been of enormous importance.
these cover the following policy priorities: health and participation, anti-doping, statistics, sustainable financing, good governance, education and training.
these initiatives would not be complete if we were not able to secure sustainable multiannual eu funding to support our policy.
the next item is the debate on the report by carlos josé iturgaiz angulo, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the issues raised by petitioners in the context of the application of the waste management directive and related directives in the member states of the european union (2011/2038 (ini)) (a7-0335/2011).
− mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank mr iturgaiz for a very good report on the application of the waste framework directive adopted in 2008. i also wish to thank the members of the committee for their views and contributions to this important debate.
the commission very much welcomes the report, which presents important facts linked to the state of implementation of waste legislation in member states.
as we have already stressed on many occasions, full implementation of waste legislation is crucial for securing a safe and healthy environment, as well as a resource base for european industry.
however, we face a persistent implementation gap in waste legislation and the resulting wide disparity between member states in terms of performance in waste management not only puts our environment and health at risk but also prevents the eu economy as a whole, and its recycling and waste management industry in particular, from reaping the benefits of proper implementation.
secondly, if the material going for disposal today was treated in accordance with the existing legislation, we could have avoided between 146 and 244 million tonnes of co2 emissions.
that is the equivalent of taking 47 million cars off the road each year and corresponds to somewhere between 19 and 31 percent of the eu climate reduction targets.
last, but not least, full implementation of waste legislation could create over 400 000 jobs – jobs which we need very badly in the current economic environment.
these are important figures, and for this reason the commission fully concurs with the conclusion of the report that effort needs to be stepped up to fully implement existing waste legislation.
we also subscribe to parliament’s call on member states to transpose the waste framework directive without further delay and to ensure full compliance with all its requirements, and in particular to establish and implement comprehensive waste management plans so that the goal of european waste laws is put into practice quickly.
the commission will continue to monitor compliance with european waste legislation.
we are also looking into the possibility of strengthening cooperation with the european environment agency in this respect.
let me conclude by saying that we have efforts underway to address parliament’s concerns raised in the report, and at the same time we are grateful that parliament is bringing much-needed added energy to those efforts.
the report by mr iturgaiz angulo tackles the problem of the lack of waste disposal in some member states, which is affecting people in europe.
in some regions of europe there are still serious problems with waste management.
the main problem is the lack of viable concepts for waste prevention, recovery and treatment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be harmful to the environment.
it is important that all regions implement the existing eu legislation in this area in a timely manner and develop comprehensive waste concepts.
without people's awareness of waste prevention and separation, it will be difficult to establish a functioning waste cycle in the positive sense in the sense of a material cycle .
because of all the ways we can recycle our waste, the best waste is the one that we can avoid in the first place.
this is good for people, good for the environment, and saves resources that could be put to other useful uses.
first, we need a concept of waste recycling and waste prevention, which must be created by the regions.
the next item is the briefing by mr norbert neuser on behalf of the committee on development on eu development cooperation in promoting access to energy for all by 2030 (2011/2112 (ini)) (a7-0442/2011).
the universal access to energy report comes at the right time, at the beginning of 2012, as the united nations general assembly has declared 2012 the international year of renewable energy for all.
the first is that we want renewable energy.
the second is that we want access to these new sources of energy for all.
and that is why these sources of energy must also be affordable for everyone.
i would like to mention in particular practical action in london and the stockholm environment institute in sweden.
our secretariat has also been very active in helping us to find ways of pushing for universal access to renewable energy.
access to energy means not only light or electricity, but above all the possibility of cooking, heating.
but access to energy is not yet a millennium development goal.
but without access to energy, our mdgs are going to be difficult to achieve.
this is why we have proposed in the report that access to renewable energy be included in the reorientation of the mdgs from 2015 onwards.
many african governments have banned the use of charcoal for cooking and heating for climate and health reasons.
we very much welcome the fact that the commission has included energy as a key priority in its agenda of change.
i would therefore like to summarize our main demands in the report once again: the eu and member states are invited to support the un targets for universal access to energy by 2030 and to align their policies accordingly.
the commission is called upon to focus on small, decentralised renewable energy projects, as this is the only way to reach the broad masses of people.
the european investment bank and the other european development banks are not geared to small, decentralized energy projects.
this needs to change, and universal access to energy should be a prominent part of the rio+20 process.
and finally, universal access to energy should be included as a development goal in the millennium development goals from 2015.
member of the commission.
we are equally committed to ensuring that the target of universal energy access by 2030 is fulfilled and that renewable energy increases its contribution to meeting this target.
we are all aware of the fundamental role that energy plays as a driver for development and an underpinning factor in delivering health, education, food security and economic growth, as well as the fact that clean energy brings additional benefits by reducing air pollution and the associated risk to public health.
the recommendations of the report are fully in line with the strategies adopted by the commission, such as the agenda for change, which recognises the unique role energy can play with regard to development.
we participate strongly in the un sustainable energy for all initiative.
this initiative aims to create the concrete conditions for success in the two most pressing and, may i add, increasingly interconnected challenges mankind is confronted with: reducing poverty and combating climate change.
sustainable energy for all will decisively contribute to both.
as a former world bank staff member, i can confirm that it was europe which pressured the world bank to adopt its first-ever renewable energy targets.
we are also the only set of countries already committed to achieving the headline goals on energy efficiency and renewable energy.
we recognise the key role of renewable-base decentralised solutions in providing the poor with access to energy, and i see this when i travel to poor countries like niger and chad.
we obviously have to be very determined in pursuing renewable energy solutions.
a specific communication on universal energy access is not envisaged in 2012, but i believe we should do better than a communication.
through the active role the union will play in the sustainable energy for all initiative, we can turn this into a practical action that delivers access to energy services in a sustainable way by 2030. as part of the initiative, we are working on a mechanism to enable developing countries to opt in to a scheme whereby they would receive the necessary technical and expert assistance to develop their own national energy access strategy.
first, in the current economic climate, clearly the european union needs a more pro-growth, pro-jobs tax policy.
furthermore it will be important to improve the tax environment for businesses.
in the current economic climate, tackling the causes for member states’ tax base erosion is of particular importance.
they have been unable to pay their energy bills because of massive increases in energy costs, such as heating oil, their heating systems are flooded or have been completely shut down.
we call for the introduction of eu-wide programmes for the energy-efficient renovation of housing.
and we propose a debate on eu-wide minimum social and environmental standards against poverty, housing shortages and energy poverty.
this was ultimately a waste of time and money.
mr karim, as you can see, we are delivering, week after week, proposals that are all facilitating proposals for businesses, to create the most favourable ecosystem for innovation, mobility, export, trade, investment, venture capital.
the money cannot be thrown out of the window, but must be used for sustainable projects which will benefit future generations.
as if the balance of power between the institutions were more important than a sensible policy for our fishermen, for our environment, for our citizens!
the debate on the sustainable management of the stock is of course also a welcome opportunity to discuss what the common fisheries policy should look like in europe for the next seven, ten or twenty years.
then they're sustainable.
on the other hand, the scale of food waste is shameful.
my main concern will remain to fight for a comprehensive, sustainable and multifunctional agriculture in europe.
we expect that imports from morocco must also meet european standards, that is to say, working conditions, social standards, anti-dumping regulations, food safety, environmental standards, health and plant protection standards.
the drive to privatise key sectors such as energy production, ports, lotteries - all sorts of things where the state plays too big a role, and we need the reduction of the bloated state apparatus that has been decided upon now.
we need programmes to stimulate sustainable growth and to create jobs, as well as programmes for investment, the environment and education.
the energy transition has not been completed in greece.
fiscal consolidation must be based on the objectives of strategy 2020. since the start of the crisis, we have seen the commission and member states forget in their focus on economic consolidation that only balanced and socially fair reforms produce sustainable growth.
access to radio spectrum is essential for many users - from telephone services to broadcasting, transport applications, energy, research and development, culture and the police - but also for rural areas.
only in this way can we achieve our main objective of ensuring a comprehensive, sustainable and multifunctional agriculture in europe.
the budget is not being put in order and expenditure and revenue are not being brought into a sustainable balance, but only cut back, and despite all the cuts, the country is doing worse, the majority of the citizens are doing worse, and the poorest people in the country are doing worse.
is this the way that is sustainable from the perspective of another country in crisis?
this year, we are again presenting guidelines to show that we want to have a savings budget, and that we want to document that we are aware that we are in an environment where you cannot make big leaps forward in financial terms, but you have to pull yourself together and continue to review the budget in terms of efficiency and savings potential.
some countries, such as germany and ireland, have even guaranteed deposits of unlimited amounts, which would of course not have been sustainable in the long term.
we have repeatedly found ourselves in a situation where, for example, in the so-called cloud, where more and more personal data is stored and services are used, it is unclear which law is actually applicable and what safeguards we as the european union offer our citizens so that they can rely on the application of european data protection law in such an environment or even with international corporations.
this in turn is an indispensable tool in the fight against climate change and pollution, as well as for disaster prevention and security, sustainable development, mobility and crisis management.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
although the energy mix - the composition of the energy supply from different sources - and therefore the decision for or against nuclear power is a matter for the member states, and thus the prerogative of national governments and parliaments, a european debate must nevertheless be held.
energy decisions in one country have an impact on the lives of people in other countries.
because 30% of europe's energy today comes from nuclear power and whether it is safe is a matter for us all.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market.
we welcome the efforts made by the european commission and by the experts in our own house over the past year to make nuclear energy safer.
i also welcome the report on nuclear waste which we adopted in this house last year.
for the first time, there are binding rules and safety standards for the handling of nuclear waste across europe.
in february, the environment committee voted on a report on energy efficiency.
the aim is to achieve 20% savings by 2020 to promote more efficient energy use across europe.
it must not be forced by the international atomic energy agency to turn a blind eye to such irresponsibility.
the international atomic energy agency should also be criticised by euratom and the european commission and the member states for claiming that the fukushima nuclear power plant is under control and for not withdrawing this claim on the anniversary of the disaster.
the international atomic energy agency is aiming to spread nuclear power throughout the world.
it 's been said before: with one third of women in management boards, the business climate and the success of companies are proven to be better.
it has proved to be resilient, especially in the financial crisis, and at the same time it is also contributing to the achievement of the eu 2020 objectives, not only in terms of growth and employment, but also in terms of social cohesion and climate protection.
cooperative banks, for example, have shown a high degree of sustainability and resilience during the financial crisis, thanks in particular to their cooperative business model.
we have to expect even more traffic in the coming years as competition increases, and if we look at the figures, we see that over a quarter of the current co2 emissions are already produced in the transport sector.
for us, that means we have to reduce co2 emissions and we have to increase transport efficiency.
i would be grateful if you could tell us why you have considered this without waiting for the road safety and environmental analyses and how you intend to proceed in the future.
it is primarily about investing in inclusive growth and sustainability, i.e.
in renewable energy, in new energy networks, in research in this area, which really makes us better, both in the european internal market and in the world market.
because only when we have sustainable new products will we also create new jobs.
we now have new studies that tell us once again that if we really invest in sustainable agricultural policy, in sustainability with the structural funds, we will create more new jobs than with the old measures.
i think that is a bad decision because nuclear waste is also produced with this technology.
we would be well advised to concentrate our resources, which we really need, on non-hazardous technologies, on new sustainable technologies and products.
i also lack the statements to address climate change.
i hereby ask the united states not to jeopardize the cooperative climate in this area and to conclude this procedure as soon as possible.
we're dealing with a case in a completely new legal environment.
this mission now confirms on a regular basis that there is no threat to the safe and secure environment.
a series of joint initiatives have been launched in areas ranging from the structured dialogue on justice to the fiscal and budgetary framework and on infrastructure development in transport and energy.
climate action requires immediate action, but also a long-term strategy if we are to achieve the goal of stabilizing the earth's atmosphere at 2 degrees celsius.
the council of environment ministers was blocked by one country on friday and proved incapable of taking action.
it is important to note that poland also has enormous opportunities to modernise its economy and use new technologies in its climate strategy.
we also need to have a clear language for climate neutrality in the transport sector and for substantial efforts in the agricultural sector.
we encourage you to include shipping in the emissions trading system, alongside aviation.
the emissions trading system is not working.
it is about a competitive european economy, and climate protection is a contribution to europe's competitiveness in the 21st century.
the commission is not today's vote on the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 is of key importance.
the lack of ambition in european climate change policy is jeopardising a sustainable development path for the european economy.
dirty technologies, such as nuclear power and ccs, are preventing the energy transition.
the eu emissions trading scheme has so far failed as a climate change instrument and undermines european climate change policy.
it shows that market-based instruments are not suitable for combating climate change.
long-term climate protection means binding targets for renewable energy and for the reduction of greenhouse gases.
ambitious climate action with a long-term target of 95% greenhouse gas reductions by 2050 compared to 1990 is encouraging innovation and creating new jobs in renewable technologies.
on the road to renewable energy, we will have to make a choice.
the davies report also calls for further tightening of environmental legislation while at the same time restricting emission rights.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not undermined by the introduction of new technologies.
once for additional environmental requirements: if co2 emissions then decrease, the allowances are simply taken off the market and thus increased in price.
we are helping to protect the environment by displacing the factories, the industry.
it cannot be, and that is why the epp will not support the unilateral tightening of the emissions trading system.
what we need is more flexibility and national leeway in european environmental legislation, such as the energy efficiency directive.
the climate impact of these is not really objectively justified.
it is also high time that we realised that european climate policy has failed globally.
i am reminded of the inclusion of airlines in the emissions trading scheme.
we will only succeed in climate policy if the rest of the world does.
we are discussing today the transition to a low-carbon economy.
of course, we're only responsible for 12 percent of the emissions!
it also has a radical economic effect if we don't change the taxation, if we don't invest in renewable energy, if we don't make transport less emissive.
it's a bumpy road, even internationally, and that's why we need more climate diplomacy at this point.
the european external action service is also needed to do more on climate diplomacy.
we have decided to include air transport in the emissions trading system.
a competitive, low-carbon economy by 2050 is the stated goal that we all wholeheartedly agree on.
this is particularly true of the emissions trading system, which is still in its infancy.
agriculture is already a constant focus of european environmental policies.
the present cap already sets strict requirements for healthy and sustainable production in europe's agriculture.
this applies to food as much as to the production of biomass and energy.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not based on the principle of subsidiarity.
i would like to speak about the agreement on the energy efficiency directive.
all the political groups support a text which will enable us to save 20% of our energy by 2020. this is also the basis for meeting ambitious climate targets.
often simple measures are enough to avoid water waste and pollution.
however, domestic waste water can also be considered as a resource.
i also know that very recently the heads of state had a very systematic discussion on the need for us in europe to be much better at implementing and, when the blueprint that i referred to at the beginning comes out, there will also be some ideas on how to improve implementation of environmental legislation in europe.
introduced diseases will increase due to climate change and the commercial and travel-oriented society.
they will get through climate change, and that's why we have to do something about climate change.
we have considered the proposal very carefully in the environment committee.
the commission, like industry, needs to know what is happening in the field of climate change.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions is an important objective of climate protection, but i think it is wrong to concentrate solely on one indicator, namely the reduction of co2 emissions.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of developing a new approach to the problem of carbon dioxide emissions.
apart from the fact that this action was directed against freedom of expression and freedom of information, we are dealing here with the illegal destruction of palestinian property by the israeli occupying power, which is defended by israel as a stereotype of a security necessity, but which does not make it any less illegal under international law: the destruction of drinking water wells and energy sources, the almost weekly destruction of agricultural land and olive trees, and not to mention the ongoing demolition of hundreds of palestinian homes, including in jerusalem.
many problems still remain unsolved in turkey – press freedom, minority rights (especially those of transgender people and homosexuals), the environment and the kurdish question, to mention just a few – and also in cyprus, where a sustainable settlement needs to be reached and the isolation of the northern part brought to an end.
for example, in connection with the establishment of the european energy efficiency fund.
the scrapping premium, which was mainly paid by your bank, has enabled us to do something good for the environment, but also something good for the economy.
the s&d group is calling for the report by mrs lulling on the taxation of energy products and electricity to be postponed.
continuing along the same line as the last speaker, i could add that my colleague maria damanaki has started a process to ensure that all black sea coastal countries are actively and equally involved in shaping a common maritime agenda for the basin they share and that they cooperate further, including towards sustainable fisheries management.
this joined-up approach can increase the possibilities for cooperation where there is a common interest between the european union and its black sea partners in tackling the challenges facing the region, such as transport, environment, maritime and fisheries policy and education.
listening to some of you i had the feeling that issues such as the security of energy, regional cooperation and democratisation were considered to be non-existent because the black sea strategy is not there.
i am glad that both countries are of strategic importance and that energy policy is not the only reason.
democratic reforms, energy and investments – those are the core interests we have in that region.
i would like to reiterate what was also reflected in the applause: we are very much counting on you and your country to develop a peaceful, economically sustainable, democratic and socially just development throughout the region as the basis for cooperation between europe and the middle east.
the economic situation in europe does not allow for any complacency, and we must continue to take the necessary steps not just to ensure stability but to build sustainable growth and job creation.
it should be socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable.
by investing in infrastructure, networks and research on a european scale, the european union channels resources that help to complete our internal market, increase our efficiency and support the sustainability of our economy.
on the programme you have presented today, we have long been convinced that we have an anti-recession policy, that we need to stimulate sustainable growth.
the commission is not gentlemen, it should be common knowledge that the economy does not produce children, does not raise them and cannot enable them to live in a pristine environment.
and again we have a proposal on the table, and again we save the world, the climate, the resources and what have we, although we have done this elsewhere.
i therefore say very clearly: it makes no sense - the commissioner has said it - to impose an additional tax on air transport where we have a functioning and hopefully soon international emissions trading system.
it is not worthwhile to make a compromise between energy density and co2 emissions.
excuse me if i'm a little bit of an engineer and say that higher energy density means less co2 emissions per mile.
the commission is not the basic orientation of the commission proposal and the econ report on the energy tax directive would allow a uniform treatment of all energy sources by 2023 through a technically neutral approach, with a minimum tax rate for all traded fuels and electricity related to co2 and energy content.
at the same time, incentives would be created to use lower-emission energy sources for the transition to a low-carbon economy.
the proposal for a directive would provide three major tax incentives: first, to reduce co2 emissions; second, to save energy; and third, to promote a shift towards more energy-efficient fuels and greener energy production.
the alignment of diesel fuel with petrol taxation could put pressure on the automobile industry to develop more energy-efficient engines.
germany and europe are world leaders in this energy-efficient and environmentally friendly drive technology.
it doesn't make economic or ecological sense.
it is not a question of the automobile industry association, nor of nuclear energy in russia, but of whether we are on the one hand imposing on the economy we represent here, which will lead to tangible successes, significant energy saving measures, and on the other hand taking them away.
however, the way the amendments to the regulation are being made does not guarantee that these investments will be of a high quality, since they do not ensure sustainable development or stable jobs.
we want to see that such wrong planning is now reconsidered and that the investments, the risks of which are borne by all citizens, are really sustainable investments.
greece needs targeted investment to get back on its feet in the economy, infrastructure and renewable energy.
− i have agreed to this voluntary agreement as it represents a first step towards a sustainable and valuable timber industry in this african country.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the excessive use of fossil fuels.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action on its own.
but if we limit ourselves to eight criteria, which are composed of climate and geology, we cannot take away the possibility for members of parliament to check whether these criteria are suitable at all.
they have helped to maintain the agricultural land in these areas, to preserve the cultural landscape in its biodiversity and to preserve the jobs of the people in these areas.
not because they want to be food nationalistic, but because they take climate and environmental protection seriously and say, these natural products that i buy today don't have to come from far away, if they can be made right at my doorstep, and i would like to prefer them.
the climate is changing.
energy conservation is necessary in any case.
climate change is not just affecting our environment.
the report by the committee on women and climate change calls for greater involvement of women in this issue.
it is important to involve women more in the fight against climate change through education and training.
and when you consider that half of the energy in our homes is being wasted inefficiently, there's also a huge potential for saving co2.
but it should focus on the important issue of women and climate change, and not water itself down by taking on all the fundamental issues, like the debate on quotas or reproduction issues.
we have the opportunity to really do something for biodiversity and to show other partners that we are serious about this.
in 2001, the heads of state or government discussed the need to preserve biodiversity.
i have to say, madam president, biodiversity, the biological diversity, is the basis of our life.
it is not just about conserving biodiversity, but also about sustainable use.
the security of a high-quality, varied food supply and biodiversity: that is our goal.
the present common agricultural policy already sets strict requirements for healthy, varied and sustainable production, always guided by the precautionary principle.
− madam president, first of all i agree with all those who believe that, basically, the major problem with taking care of biodiversity is insufficient awareness.
i think that if we were to be frank and compare how many people today understand – even among us politicians – the importance of climate change versus biodiversity, we would be astonished at how many are aware of the success of the durban conference and how few are aware of the success of the nagoya conference – and by the way the nagoya conference was much more successful: it produced concrete agreements in the biodiversity area.
so we all have work to do, when it comes both to europe and to the international environment.
i think when we discuss the future there are basically three major core issues which we cannot ignore: one of course is climate change; another is biodiversity, and the third is the question of resources.
one of the things that many of you underlined, when it comes to coordination among policies, is that if you asked today – to take a clear example – somebody who is an environmentalist: ‘what is the long-term interest in fishing?’, he would say: ‘sustainable fishing’.
ask a fisherman what his long-term interest in fishing is, and he will also say sustainable fishing.
the protection of biodiversity is very much in the farmers’ interest – and by the way, again from the longer-term point of view, they know that perfectly well – and what we are suggesting in the proposals of the common agricultural policy is basically that they should deliver some kind of public good.
we wish to pay them in advance so that they do not pollute or hamper biodiversity.
i should like to tell you some bare facts on soil biodiversity.
so the european commission, in its recent report on the implementation of the soil thematic strategy five years after its adoption, said that soil degradation continues in the european union, and soil biodiversity is not spared.
he told us that he was doing everything in cooperation with nature and respecting nature, and he said: ‘if you ministers want to remember just one message coming from farms today, remember that biodiversity and nature have had millions of years of experience of how to deal with the questions which we humans are struggling with, and we are stupid enough to destroy it and stupid enough not to use it’.
written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mrs jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the review of the 6th environment action programme and the setting of priorities for the 7th environment action programme: improving the quality of life through environmental protection (2011/2194 (ini)) (a7-0048/2012).
the european parliament wants a seventh environmental action programme of the european union.
it would be incomprehensible if we stopped our efforts to improve the quality of the environment and health in europe with the sixth action programme, which expires in june this year.
the commissioner has just mentioned that climate change, the loss of biodiversity, the scarcity of resources - these are all challenges which cannot be tackled by conventional environmental policy alone.
we need all the other portfolios, all the other policies in the eu, in particular energy and transport policy, agricultural and fisheries policy, cohesion policy, but also economic and financial policy in particular.
parliament has drawn up 80 paragraphs proposing the content and procedures of a 7th environment action programme, and these include calls for the elimination of environmentally harmful subsidies.
and in macroeconomic governance we also need to monitor sustainability in the european semester.
the ecological footprint of europe as a whole is far too large.
if all seven billion people today and nine billion people by the middle of the century were to consume as much energy and as many resources as we do in europe, then we would not need just one planet, we would need two planets.
we should pay particular attention to the urban environment.
the protection of the environment is of course also a matter of protecting human health.
the integration of environmental and health protection in the 7th action programme must be clearly communicated to the public as a message, and then there will be a response and acceptance.
the air pollution is still too high.
the noise pollution is enormous.
noise is a forgotten aspect of environmental policy.
we still have many toxic chemicals that are leaking into the environment and affecting health.
the 7th environment action programme really needs to close the enforcement gap.
finally, i believe that europe must send a message to the world that we need sustainable management.
ladies and gentlemen, in general, environmental action programmes are intended to set important medium and long-term objectives in the field of european environmental policy.
the evaluation of the 6th environment programme, however, has shown that the programme has fallen short of expectations, despite being the first environmental action programme to be jointly drawn up by the council and the european parliament under the co-decision procedure.
it sets priorities for climate change, biodiversity, natural resources, waste, health and food quality.
because if i look at the preamble to the report, i find, for example, a communication entitled 'europe 2020: a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency (eea) and the european environment agency (eea).
i disagree with the rapporteur who said that the environmental action programme should be horizontal.
it will be important that the 7th environment action programme also reflects the resource efficiency we are discussing here and that the plenary hopefully votes as we have voted in committee.
i am quite positive after the consultations with the environment ministers this week.
sustainable business: a holistic approach must be found, for example in the automobile industry.
we need a legal framework for this, and the 7th environment action programme is a good place to put it and to apply it in the legislation that is being revised.
− mr president, i would first of all like to thank the members for their support and clarify that for me there was never any question of having or not having the 7th environmental action programme.
one of these was that we do a full report of the existing 6th environmental action programme and that we learn the lessons, which in a way is logical.
even if there will be some time between the 6th and the 7th environmental action programmes, i can assure you that we are listening to you carefully and are implementing many of the things that you have underlined.
many of the questions concerning biodiversity that we had discussed previously – resource efficiency and so on – have been dealt with over the last two years, so we are really trying to be active.
secondly, i would like to say that we are much closer to a common understanding of the shape and substance of the 7th environmental action programme after this week.
to conclude, i think the situation we have today is quite different from the situation of ten years ago, when we were discussing and adopting the 6th environmental action programme.
some things that are much more obvious today than they were a decade ago inform our decision on what we will have to incorporate into the 7th environmental action programme.
it is obvious that climate, biodiversity and resources will still have to be our main focus, but we should not replicate – double or triple – the messages.
- the debate showed that there is a consensus in the european parliament for a 7th environment action programme, and i thank all the shadow rapporteurs who helped to build this consensus.
i also thank commissioner potočnik, who took the initiative in the commission because not everyone wanted a prima vista 7th environmental action programme.
and we can now see, after the debate in the council of ministers for the environment, after the debate in the european parliament, how useful and also how necessary a 7th environment action programme can be to produce a synthesis of all the objectives which we have set out so far in the various strategies and road maps.
this synthesis, this message that europe's ecological footprint must be reduced, and the measures needed to do so, are the main messages of this 7th environment action programme.
we need to call for greening tax policy, for greening economic policy, because environmental policy alone will not achieve sustainability.
the environmental strategy must also be reflected in the financial strategy.
and we will be debating the medium-term financial plan until 2020. the commission has proposed to set aside 20% of the total of billions for climate protection for sustainability.
it is not possible that 80% of the funds are used to damage the environment and only 20% of the funds are used to help protect the environment.
a model in which there is a free press and independent courts, a model which guarantees pensions and health care, which organizes free access to education and career opportunities for all, a model of parliamentary democracy and democratic and political participation, a model of equality and of the guaranteed, indivisible rights of citizens, a model which always strives to achieve the highest social and environmental standards and which today has the highest environmental standards in the world, a model in which there is no child labour and no death penalty!
written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mrs angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on roaming on public mobile networks in the union (recast) (com (2011) 0402 - c7-0190/2011 - 2011/0187 (cod)) (a7-0149/2012).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the environment.
we need to agree on common and simple rules on a matter that affects the sustainability of the eu aviation market.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the environment committee is responsible for the budget lines for the environment, public health and food safety, representing 0,76% of the union budget.
we were very satisfied with the overall execution rates: in the area of environment and climate, 99.26% of the funds have been committed, and in the life programme, our flagship and sole financial instrument for the environment, 99.4%.
we need long-term measures that are sustainable and produce long-term, visible, constructive improvements in the countries concerned.
we all want the budget to be implemented correctly, in a meaningful way and above all - and i say this especially in the case of the edf - in a sustainable way.
i would like to express my support for the rapporteur on one point, namely the environment agency.
i must also say that i do not want to see a mere take-away effect for companies, but that we really need to achieve sustainable growth and a sustainable fight against unemployment.
these competitions have also been successfully conducted for energy efficiency and sustainable production processes.
we have indicated to the ukrainian authorities that a first step towards regaining confidence would be to ensure an environment conducive to ms tymoshenko’s recovery, whether inside or outside ukraine, and i am glad that president schulz and prime minister azarov agreed last week that the european parliament would play an important role in this respect.
it aims to accelerate sustainable reforms in the justice sector in ukraine, with a particular focus on criminal justice reforms.
and i think, mr rehn, that the commission must be ready by now to say tomorrow how hundreds of millions of euros which are in brussels and cannot be called up by greece can be immediately converted into employment for young people in greece and, for example, into energy measures.
when we talk about growth, we talk about sustainability, which must be achieved, for example, by means of a strong climate policy, energy and resource efficiency.
this is not what is really necessary for sustainable and inclusive development and for reducing economic, fiscal and also financial inequalities.
the fight against poverty and environmental degradation must be a top priority for all investments.
resource-efficient investment and a fundamental overhaul of energy, industrial and agricultural policies and transport systems are needed.
in the textile industry, in new industries of the future such as the solar industry, the supply of raw materials to both huge markets, the global trade challenges - yes, the whole complexity of today's economic policy is shown, especially in the face of the financial, economic and structural crisis and the challenges of climate change and today's production and growth logics: the report is too short, we are too short, even though we may not need another big leap.
or the question of limiting the efforts to enforce the sustainability chapter.
both countries and the european union will have to set up advisory groups of civil society representatives, including a balanced representation of economic, social and environmental interests.
what this means is that civil society will help us in the commission, and you in parliament, to oversee the implementation of the provisions – on sustainable development in particular, but also the rest of the agreement.
secondly, the agreement establishes a transparent, predictable and comprehensive mechanism to ensure implementation of core labour and environmental conventions.
it establishes an arbitration system to deal with disagreements on trade and sustainable development.
this is far more consistent with the objectives and the rationale behind our trade and sustainable development chapters.
he's better than most, in energy management, for example.
the european union has a budget of 100 billion, which will help to relieve the burden on households and invest in sustainable growth.
written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the report by mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the subject of 'a resource-efficient europe' (2011/2068 (ini)) (a7-0161/2012).
the member states have not done themselves any honour in the council of environment ministers by partially blocking the commission's proposals.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the conservation of natural resources is a very important one.
this is a subject which will concern us for a long time to come and which will determine whether we will live in prosperity in europe in the future and what our environment in europe will look like.
is that sustainable, is that resource-efficient?
commissioner potočnik, you have rightly described the energy roadmap 2050 as the great transformation of the economy and society, of production and consumption.
we have the napas and the namas, the adaptation action programs and the climate action measures.
we need new business models that reward sustainability, not resource consumption.
the producer produces something, doesn't care about the waste, the product goes to the consumer, and then it might end up in the waste.
we can think of many things, we can paint many things, but the fact is: the world population is growing, energy, land, water, food are becoming more and more scarce, and the world must change.
it must become more sustainable and more environmentally friendly, and resource efficiency is an important part of our strategy for economic growth and job creation in the years ahead.
the often-heard demand for the set-aside of valuable agricultural land is as much against conservation and sustainable use as is the sealing of land.
i think it is irresponsible to stop food production in our climate-favoured regions.
sustainable agriculture in europe is making an important contribution to solving the major challenges of the 21st century.
it serves to ensure the world's nutrition, it provides renewable raw materials while preserving our cultural landscape and biodiversity created by generations.
the production of ever new statistics based on ever new indicators adds bureaucracy, binds manpower and ultimately costs energy and money, and this is not efficient.
that's energy, and that's happiness.
we need a targeted growth policy, we need to strengthen domestic purchasing power, public investment in education, research, alternative energy.
we must analyse the regulations in question in terms of their purpose and seek an outcome which preserves the social benefits and yet favours the exchange of goods without reducing, for example, consumer protection or environmental objectives.
the fact that we have managed to complete the european single market, that we now have a huge free trade agreement in europe with common social and environmental standards, really shows that this path of common agreements can improve the overall situation.
we invite countries through gsp+ to further intensify trade relations with us on the basis of shared values, on the issue of human rights, on the issue of sustainability.
this also helps to strengthen sustainable development at the global level.
we invite everyone, including the most intensive - whether through bilateral trade negotiations, the wto or the wpas - to establish intensive trade relations with us in the interests of sustainable development.
thirdly, the methods used to calculate the debt-sustainability of individual countries and to forecast the economic situation of individual countries must in future be made transparent by the commission.
i too have agreed to the own-initiative report, because the security of energy supply is also an essential element for our prosperity in the european union.
the real issue here is to ensure a secure energy supply through an appropriate energy mix.
the other is to make the energy we need as efficient as possible.
i would add a third point: we should try to develop our own energy resources, including through scientific progress.
because less energy we have to import is the safest energy supply we have.
only through intensive engagement of local and regional actors will we be able to work together to improve the human rights situation in this world in a sustainable way.
the main concern is to safeguard the profits of this industry, especially as disarmament and conversion can promote sustainable development, growth and jobs.
the eu supports the chinese authorities and their wish to better protect the environment in china, but nevertheless we are most concerned about the impact of the policy of resettlement of tibetan nomads.
while taking note of the chinese authority’s commitment that the resettlement of nomads is intended to preserve the tibetan grasslands, we do question whether the objective of environmental protection can only be reached by eliminating the traditional way of life of tibetans who have lived for centuries in harmony with nature.
instead, we need sustainable growth, based on strengthening the public sector and also on public accountability.
this is exactly the same idea that underlies the european union: to overcome the divisions and to seek the cooperation of states and peoples in common institutions for economic, ecological and social progress.
only then can we help south sudan to build up sustainable state structures and promote the emergence of a civil society.
the commission has put on the table concrete proposals to enhance sustainable growth, some of them have been on the table already for several months.
they are about creating competitive services and energy markets, a digital single market, investing in infrastructure, promoting research and innovation, and getting better access to fast-growing markets around the world.
we need more cross-border and community investment in renewable energy and green growth, in transport and communication infrastructure, as well as in research and innovation.
they say we should raise environmental taxes and tax the lowest earners less.
i am particularly pleased that the commissioner responsible for the environment, mr andor, has been able to speak on this subject, and i am particularly pleased that the commissioner responsible for the environment, mr andor, has been able to speak on this subject.
the commission's role under this new system is to make recommendations on the basis of economic analysis, looking in particular at the development of the member states' own economic and fiscal policies from the point of view of sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment.
we will be working on three lines: first, targeted action in sectors with high growth potential, of course the services and financial services i mentioned earlier, but also the network industries: transport, energy, the digital market.
in the light of the economic problems, crisis and challenges facing european companies and their employees, creditors and also other shareholders and stakeholders, eu company law needs to focus on a sustainable, long-term and forward-looking business model.
sustainable growth can only be achieved on the basis of reforms in the member states and balanced budgets.
in concrete terms, this means that if there is no ambitious energy efficiency directive, there is no need for construction workers and other workers to insulate buildings.
seveso, enschede, toulouse, these cities are the sites of very serious accidents which have not only caused environmental disasters but also caused deaths and destruction of private property.
the question is: are we now concluding this at first reading, as much as 65% of our environmental legislation?
we have adopted this report in the committee on the environment by a large majority, 62 votes to none and no abstentions.
second, regarding the duration of the empowerment for the commission, the proposal of a three-year renewable empowerment period is acceptable.
we are currently discussing how we want to work more effectively in the common fisheries policy from 2014 to 2020. it is also clear that where we have this stock in the atlantic, we can exploit it with appropriate quotas and, of course, achieve the highest possible sustainable yield.
in addition, operating costs have increased by about 20% over the last two years, mainly due to direct and indirect increases in energy costs.
the commission will continue to monitor the situation in the member states and to monitor the implementation of the community's environmental legislation.
that is why we want to see the single railway area finally come into being, because it is good for the environment and of course for the european market!
the railway sector must not lose its economic, social and ecological role for the future and must not be divided into market-driven and profit-driven parts.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products we sell is not compromised.
the other eur 60 billion comes, first, from the structural funds which will be devoted to growth-enhancing measures in the current period (eur 55 billion) and, second, from the pilot phase of project bonds that will be launched this summer and will go to key initiatives such as energy, transport and broadband infrastructure.
the euro group will examine the situation of the irish financial sector, with a view to further improving the sustainability of ireland’s well-performing adjustment programme.
the commission, as you know, has always argued that consolidation must be accompanied by sustainable growth created by structural reforms combined with targeted investment.
if you do not put forward proposals with the commission by september on how we want to build the banking union as quickly as possible, how we want to work in a fiscal union with eurobills, debt relief funds and then prospectively with eurobonds, if you do not make clear how we want to actually pool all crisis instruments including the esm and the efsf, if you do not present a convincing pact for sustainable economic recovery and development, if you do not make clear how you want to further develop and implement the financial transaction tax, if you do not put forward a really convincing programme against youth unemployment, then we will not get very far in regaining confidence in the european union.
i would like to know from you, precisely and decisively, whether these payments are there, what commitments have been made there so that these 55 billion euros can now actually flow into sustainable growth.
equally important is the connection of the entire european population to a functioning waste water system.
clearly, climate policy is not the same as copyright.
(end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
energy policy, and in particular the set plan, are at the centre of the agenda, with research and innovation as priorities, as well as support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in particular, appropriations for heading i sustainable growth will increase by 3.5%.
the key programmes in the areas of growth and investment, small and medium-sized enterprises, employment and youth and new initiatives - such as the planned pilot phase for project bonds in the transport, energy and ict sectors - are intended to help address liquidity problems and thus promote investment and growth, which europe needs more than ever in these times.
the commission president, barroso, had said this morning in his speech to the summit that the european budget is the key instrument for sustainable growth.
then, at the summit last week, the council decided that an additional 55 billion euros should now be mobilised quickly from the structural funds in order to finally provide the necessary stimulus for the consolidation policy, in key areas: education, research, sustainable energy, renewable energies - all objectives which we can also share from a green point of view.
a very large majority in the committee in charge, in econ, is of the opinion that we should not and cannot waste any more time on this subject.
the renting of a flat, access to energy or integration into a modern working world: without a bank account, this is hardly possible in most countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in the current challenging economic environment, we need to ensure that long-term investment in the fields of transport, energy and information technology can be maintained.
more than ever, we need to stimulate smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu.
investment in energy networks to promote energy security, in digital access, and in sustainable transfer infrastructure is crucial for the success of the europe 2020 strategy and the continent’s long-term growth prospects.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
we want to mobilize private capital for the big infrastructure projects, for broadband, for energy networks, for all these challenges.
the road towards a deep and sustainable democracy that will meet the aspirations and demands of all egyptians is still a long one, but egypt will never be the same.
the outcome document acknowledges the important role of an inclusive green economy in achieving sustainable development and poverty eradication.
it is recognised as an important tool for achieving sustainable development for all countries.
it will enhance our ability to manage natural resources sustainably, increase resource efficiency and reduce waste.
the document also recognises the need for broader measures of progress to complement gdp in order to have more solid policy decisions, as well as the importance of corporate sustainable reporting.
at a time when our society suffers widespread unemployment, we are also satisfied that rio+20 was given a stronger social angle to sustainable development on matters such as decent work, green jobs and social protection floors, thereby enhancing the linkages between its three dimensions.
we also contributed actively to highlighting that democracy, human rights, the rule of law, good governance and gender equality and empowerment of women are indispensable to achieve sustainable development.
concerning civil society and the private sector, the european union has fought for and secured a good outcome in relation to the fundamental role of civil society and stakeholders in the realisation of sustainable development.
i would also like to highlight that rio principle 10 on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice has been extended at rio+20 from environmental matters to sustainable development as a whole.
the inclusive green economy can bring fundamental changes to progress towards sustainable development because it will change the economic fabric.
this leads us to the means of implementation, and that is also why the european union has taken the position that first and foremost each country must take the necessary measures to put in place an enabling environment of domestic policies that is designed to be self-sustaining.
secondly, progress towards sustainable development entails providing the right financial instruments.
thirdly, moving towards more sustainable development also depends on skills, know-how and technology diffusion.
we have not obtained the timelines we sought, with exceptions such as the commitment to achieve sustainable reduction of marine litter by 2025, but the eu has achieved the integration of most of its proposed targets into the main text in the form of express commitments, for example on future action concerning extending the protection of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
these efforts of the european union to focus attention on key issues such as sustainable energy, water, oceans, land and biodiversity, food security and resource efficiency, should also bear fruit in the next month in the process to develop sustainable development goals or sdgs.
for the eu, the work on sdgs should be coordinated and coherent with the review process of the millennium development goals, mdgs, without deviating from efforts towards their achievement by 2015. it would be important to have an overarching framework for post-2015 that encompasses the three dimensions of sustainable development with goals that address key challenges in a holistic and coherent way.
i refer to sustainable development taken as a holistic notion.
indeed, at rio+20, in spite of initial difficulties we have reaffirmed the need to put together our efforts to eradicate poverty and to secure sustainability within our planetary limits.
on the institutional framework, overall we welcome the agreement to reinforce the institutional framework for sustainable development.
rio has reinforced international environmental governance by strengthening and upgrading unep.
it will now have universal membership and must become our common home to set the global environmental agenda.
we will, however, continue to work together with our partners towards the creation of a fully-fledged united nations environmental organisation to allow it to function on an equal footing with other un organisations.
the other institutional reform is the decision to establish a new high-level political forum on sustainable development which will replace the commission on sustainable development.
we are looking forward to the european parliament’s view on how this can be best done, and count on you to keep the ambition and positive energy generated in the run-up to rio alive in the years to come at international, national and also local levels.
the global transition to a sustainable model of development is obviously far from easy, and that was what rio was actually all about.
i am also very pleased that the three pillars of environment, economy and social policy - which belong together in a social and environmental economy - are now fundamental components of the un.
the first thing we should do is to consider whether we need to re-establish the un and our role in the un's environmental and climate policy.
we've been complaining about that at every climate conference.
we have a land use paper on the table from the directorate-general for climate now.
we have had an intensive debate in our committees on the environment in preparation for the rio+20 conference.
i believe that upgrading the un environment programme - almost to the level of the who - is the right way to do it, to give this organization more power and also more clout than it has so far.
if more and more people live in industrialized nations and want access to energy, and if we don't radically change the way we do it, that's going to cause the most massive problems.
we got, i think we need a movement towards a sustainable planet in the digital world, because we only have this one.
i do not think that the glass is half full, but it is half empty, because the destruction of the world continues, and we have too few concrete goals, too few timetables, too few concrete commitments to shift to sustainable development.
we should work out the urban environment as a priority in the eu's seventh environmental action programme.
most people live in cities, and that's where most of the energy and most of the resources are used, so that's a good approach.
the european parliament's environment committee, in view of the high cost we were facing, decided to cancel the delegation and not go.
it is true that the european union has already done a great deal on the subject of sustainable development, and we should be proud of that, but there are also problems.
i would like to take this opportunity to address the problems of emissions trading.
we have a much lower price now than we had in mind in 2008 when we adopted the reformed emissions trading system.
as a result, investors have no incentive to invest in low-carbon technology.
we also have less revenue in the member states for the transition to a green economy, because emissions trading was also designed to use the revenue there.
and we also have less revenue for international environmental policy if emissions trading doesn't work.
parliament has adopted the davis report by a large majority, and we have also urged reform of the emissions trading system in the negotiations on the energy efficiency directive.
we recognize that europe cannot impose its ideas on the world in environmental policy.
the other is that we need to put more focus on adaptation to climate change, in addition to climate protection.
but i believe above all that the development departments in europe, the research institutes in europe, the universities and the companies in europe can make an important contribution, because we must see economic development in conjunction with environmental policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
so let's push the environmental technology forward!
the european union has a long history of supporting the environment and its citizens.
as belarus prepares for the september parliamentary elections, an overall climate of fear prevails in which independent political expression or manifestation is not tolerated and independent journalists are systematically impeded from exercising their activities.
they enable a common technical language, a common technical basis in the european internal market, and they are a good instrument for promoting innovation and sustainable development.
the participation rights of small and mediumsized enterprises, consumer and environmental associations and trade unions could have gone further in my view.
fortunately, the committee on the environment - and the rapporteur must be representing the committee on the environment - has decided by a majority to maintain this voluntary system as it stands.
and i ask all my colleagues to support the amendments of the committee on the environment when we vote on them tomorrow.
i urge you to follow the decisions of the committee on the environment in the voluntary labelling, also in the interests of consumers and in the interests of farmers in the european union.
the commission is not the eu must put an end to the tens of thousands of premature deaths caused by ship emissions each year.
outside the seca, the ship's engines are burning quasi-special waste.
i also want to dispel some of the myths that are being spread around here that the ships are, so to speak, mobile waste incinerators on this blue planet.
the specific energy consumption per tonne and per kilometre, per passenger and per kilometre, is the lowest in shipping, better than rail and better than lorries.
i want to start by saying that of all our energy and environmental policy goals, energy efficiency is the most underrated and perhaps the most important.
this is why we had to commit ourselves to energy efficiency, alongside our policy to promote renewable energy and the overall objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions - we as the commission, but with the strong commitment of parliament.
when i look back over the last two and a half to three years, the impetus to make energy efficiency a binding objective of european energy policy did not come from the council.
firstly, we want to and can use energy efficiently, i.e.
use energy, reduce energy waste, increase energy use, save energy, reduce imports of primary energy.
secondly, we want to reduce our costs in the long term, that is to say, the expenditure that our citizens and our economy have to spend on energy.
thirdly, we want to reduce emissions and contribute to climate protection.
these are the four objectives which make energy efficiency a binding objective at european level.
i would like to invite you to a competition to find the best member state which is doing more than is required by european law in the field of energy efficiency.
i see three tasks for the commission, firstly to monitor implementation, implementation in the member states, and to look at the progress reports, that is, year by year: are we moving forward with decreasing energy consumption?
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new energy policy.
energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to save fossil fuels and co2.
for every euro we spend, we can achieve much more with energy efficiency than if we rely on renewable energy alone.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
the committee on the environment was very interested in solving the problem of emissions trading.
the heart of europe's climate policy is not working.
i too would like to welcome the 20 2020 environmental objectives.
share of renewable energy: we will exceed our target.
energy efficiency: we are on the right track here too, at least in terms of energy use relative to economic output.
we are now equating energy efficiency with energy saving in the directive.
a diplomatic approach could have achieved more in the spirit of this directive and in the spirit of the environment.
it is good that the commission and the greens have had to adapt their wishful thinking to the reality of public finances and high energy prices.
in short, less european planning and bureaucracy, more flexibility and responsibility for the member states, and that in the environmental sense - that is a great result!
we must be very careful that the increasing number of european environmental standards - including this directive - do not undermine the market economy trading of emissions.
we have agreed that energy conservation is a huge challenge.
we have finally achieved something with a lot of work and a lot of energy from many colleagues.
the energy you don't use is the best energy.
it is not about saving energy, but about using energy efficiently.
it is not about saving energy at all costs, but above all about making the whole thing pay off.
the eu commission's proposal on energy efficiency had massive planned economy features: "annual savings targets for energy companies", in this case of 1.5 % of their energy sales to the final customer from the previous year without exceptions or substitution measures, remind me very much of our former east german planned economy under communism.
however, there is a more flexible set of measures to achieve this, such as tax relief for energy efficiency investments.
it also means that there is not enough time and energy left in the central government in europe to deal with the many pressing foreign policy problems.
water, energy, education: there are big issues that i have already pointed to and which really do affect not just the lives of other people but ultimately ours too.
in the course of this debate you have covered every continent and you have covered a huge number of countries into which you individually believe we should put our energy.
he also said that this is an economic, social and environmental disaster for the fisheries sector.
the main objective of the sugar reform was to increase the competitiveness and market orientation of the sugar industry in the european union on a sustainable basis.
for example, in my country, germany, energy production is now also carried out on the land.
the interests of the people who urgently need a functioning, solidarity-based, social and ecological union are not in focus.
we can only do this if we finally face up to these challenges, a social, a solidarity-based, an ecological and a democratic europe, a democratic union which also fulfils its solidarity-based role as a global actor.
i am referring to the expectation of my group that the commission will fulfil its responsibilities in the relevant bodies such as the troika, in order to make it clear that we, as the commission, as a european institution, are in favour of not pushing people further into poverty, not extending working hours, not lowering environmental and social standards.
it is now up to the commission to define appropriate measures so that we can negotiate with these countries and also signal to these countries that sustainable fishing is extremely important, and it is not just about us, it is not just about fish, it is also about the next generations in our world.
i hope that the coming weeks and months will show that all political actors in romania are determined to fully respect the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary in a sustainable and irreversible way.
energy policy is central to the european union, to economic growth, to a future-oriented energy policy.
it is perfectly logical, ladies and gentlemen, that we can only develop a sensible energy policy if we also agree on a common external energy policy, on agreements with third countries.
unfortunately, this does not apply to energy policy.
but everyone must be aware that we must all pull together in the energy sector, sooner or later, if we are to meet the challenges of security of supply and affordable energy on a sustainable basis.
even the large member states will eventually, with the advance of globalisation and emerging players in the energy markets, come to the painful realization that we can only hold our own in the long term if we are united.
we share the same objective of joining forces, strengthening the internal market and improving our position in the purchase and supply of primary energy through transparency, competition and consultation.
the european council's invitation to the commission to submit proposals on how to improve the common external energy policy is out of proportion to the daily work of evaluating and refusing to implement what has been duly drawn up and proposed by the commission.
i am sure that in two or three years' time the commission will come forward with proposals on how this common external energy strategy can be further developed and improved in a second step.
they addressed the question of how energy foreign policy in particular should be linked to foreign policy in general.
as a rule, energy policy takes precedence when it comes to relations with third countries.
the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their energy policies.
but it is clear that if we are to have a coherent and consistent policy towards iran, the boycott of oil must be seen not only from the perspective of energy policy but also from the perspective of the whole.
and in that case energy policy is subordinate to foreign and security policy.
but again, as a rule, the directorate-general for energy has operational responsibility and we have special interests in energy foreign policy which are not subordinated to general foreign policy.
we greens think it is right that the trade committee should call for environmental and social standards in the proposal for a regulation on safeguard clauses and not just tonne limits for bananas.
we want to set up a road map, a road map, as decided by parliament, to strengthen workers' rights, human rights, environmental conditions in colombia and peru, and we want to create a safety net for conditions here in the european union.
we want to know what the eu is doing, for example, in the negotiations on the world trade agreement, in climate negotiations, in bilateral trade agreements, etc.
energy is a vital resource in all developed industrial countries, including the european union.
secondly, we must ensure that we are as self-sufficient as possible in energy.
thirdly, we must ensure that the energy mix is stable in the case of energy imports through intergovernmental agreements.
i repeat: everything we decide here must be integrated into the energy supply of the european union so that we can continue to develop our economic base tomorrow.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the environment committee, which is responsible for a very small part of the european budget, points out that we will not achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy if we do not provide sufficient funds for environmental, climate protection and biodiversity programmes and measures.
the council has also signed the commitment to sustainable growth.
it has only provided for an increase of 0.72% for climate and environment policy.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
we need sustainable growth!
we need progress in the fight against climate change!
we must move the energy revolution forward.
we must invest in renewable energy because it creates new jobs.
we do not think this is the right signal in times of the necessary energy transition, but we need to shift more towards wind energy, photovoltaics and other sustainable energy sources.
this company, with 700 skilled jobs, is in the process of transforming itself from a shipyard into an offshore wind energy supplier.
i therefore ask the commission to examine this procedure in good faith, but also in good time, so that these 700 jobs are not jeopardised, because these jobs are needed to organise the energy transition and to ensure sustainable energy on europe's seas.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on 'small and medium-sized enterprises: competitiveness and entrepreneurial opportunities' (com (2011) 0642 - 2012/2042 (ini)) (a7-0293/2012).
the cosme programme will also aim at improving the sustainability of eu businesses and improving access to markets within the eu and internationally – all priorities mentioned in your report, mr rübig.
i am listening to colleagues: agricultural policy - mr de castro - cultural policy, research, environmental policy, social policy, regional development - all areas of enormous importance for all our member states, for the regions from which we come, and for the member states themselves.
at the same time, we know together - and this is really our shared interest - that we need momentum for sustainable growth.
we must fight climate change, we must shift our economy to low-carbon production, we must give our young people new opportunities and thus new hope, including in the european union project.
while much has been done here, for instance through the six-pack and the country-specific recommendations, further steps are crucial to combine specific conditions with specific incentives and to really make economic and monetary union sustainable.
europe 2020 - which, by the way, is obviously completely out of date - a sustainable economic recovery with industrial policy concepts, as oettinger and tajani have proposed, i cannot imagine.
we need sustainable growth, which can only be achieved through good work, fair redistribution and adequate contributions from the crisis-makers.
that success should reach beyond merely trade-oriented aspects; it should, if possible, include issues like sustainability.
how can we seriously demand, in times of climate crisis, a commitment from the japanese government to remove special treatment for electric and hybrid vehicles and incentives for mini cars like kei cars, just so we can export more diesel cars?
this study very well recognises that many of these measures serve to increase the common good, particularly in the areas of health, environment and consumer protection.
but the single market is the essential condition for successfully meeting the challenge of sustainable growth and competitiveness.
it is clearly the transport and energy networks, which are like the arteries of the single market, it is mobility, it is business and the digital single market.
finally, there is what i consider to be one of the conditions for sustainable growth, social cohesion and consumer confidence.
the commission's proposals for transeuropean transport, energy and telecommunications networks, which are currently being discussed, address these and other problems.
investing in infrastructure is thus the best use of eu funds, as it promotes sustainable growth, jobs and europe's competitiveness.
we social democrats support the commission in its action against market domination and unfair competition, whether it is microsoft or google, whether it is german energy companies or gazprom.
- policy coherence is ultimately about shaping a sustainable policy in our own interests.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
even if they are speculative, i must say that i do not know of any industrial company, or energy supplier, that is systemically relevant.
that means we must put greening and environmental protection at the forefront and at the centre.
i think the environment should be the priority here.
the csu environment minister in the bavarian state government has now recognised this.
at the same time, you're addressing the environment.
the danube strategy is indeed a contradiction in terms of achieving the objectives of environmental protection on the one hand and supporting the objectives of those who want to destroy the danube on the other.
the second point i would like to make is that we have to look at the business environment in russia.
but there is no more democracy without more social justice, more enforcement of trade union rights, more internationally agreed labour standards, environmental standards, etc.
but in the longer term, it also means that we need to pay particular attention to the nature of these jobs: jobs that are sustainable and that provide decent employment.
but if we look at the europe 2020 strategy, the objectives of the european union are employment, sustainability and quality growth.
what concrete approaches and incentives do you intend to put in place in european union legislation to promote the ecological conversion of the economy?
we want to help it become an economically and politically stable country, a country that can provide for itself and that can itself contribute to a sustainable reduction of poverty.
i support the rapporteur on the fact that it is necessary to ensure the sustainability if the safer internet program at european level.
secondly, i checked to see if the citizens' initiative for responsible energy signed this exhibition about shale gas is listed in our lobby directory.
i have to say, madam president, a point of order: where are the greens when environmental organisations put up exhibitions in parliament and say to elected members: 'we are the voice of the citizens'?
question for the commissioner: the commission is not madam president, are you prepared to accept that it is a matter of physics and not of lobbying that burning gas more efficiently than coal produces less co2 emissions than coal-fired power?
so if we end up in europe, for example, in the united states, we can already see that, we can turn off coal power plants and turn on gas power plants, and then the co2 emissions will go down?
and the second question that follows is: are you prepared to accept that less coal mining may also be less invasive to the environment than it might be to explore for shale gas, i.e.
that mining coal is more invasive to the environment than exploring for shale gas?
parliament is being overrun by industrial lobbyists since it was clear that the environment committee and the industry committee would each draw up an own-initiative report.
we're supposed to need shale gas for the energy transition.
and why don't you assume that there can be a fair and open debate on all issues related to the environment, climate and energy?
but we should not waste this valuable time, and that is your part of the responsibility, mr oettinger!
energy independence even if we stick to the fossil fuel path, according to the commission figures, we would still have to import 60% of our gas from russia, norway or elsewhere in 30 years.
partners of the energy transition of ways, look to the usa!
the development of shale gas is not a partner of the energy transition, but a rejection of the energy transition.
and the iea, the international energy agency, has said that shale gas development is not compatible with a 2°c target.
as for fracking, the debate reminds me a little of nuclear energy.
and that's why protecting health and the environment is of the utmost importance over any kind of immature technology, and i see that in fracking.
i have my greatest concerns about the impact on the environment.
we have different policy areas: the energy mix is the responsibility of the member states, but we are responsible for environmental policy.
i think it is appropriate and timely for the commission to consider how we can close this gap so that there is legal certainty and we have the highest possible protection for the environment and health.
but we cannot be creating a possible energy supply of the future at the expense of the environment or health.
there is no perfect energy-generation technology.
what we are seeing is a new entry into the energy markets through unconventional resources, mainly gas but also oil.
i think we have to keep in mind that these unconventional resources have the potential to change all the energy supply-demand relationships we know, and that the cost-effectiveness calculations of traditional energy sources are also being called into question.
the report was adopted almost unanimously by the committee on the environment, 63 votes to one.
subsidiarity means that we as europeans must not prohibit poland from using this new form of energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are not used for the production of oil and gas.
we must realize that our energy consumption will increase in the coming years and that we must use and explore all the technological possibilities available to meet our needs.
so i see, in the light of these facts, that we're going to see an increase in energy consumption in the next few years, that a technology that might have the potential to expand our energy mix, because that's the foundation, and increase our security of supply, is going to be condemned in advance.
we have a water framework directive, we have a clear statement on pollution and so on.
and if you ever get into the technology and really look at what's being done, you'll be surprised at how clean this technology actually is and what the environmental impact might be.
a very important question we have to answer is: how can we produce climate-friendly energy at low prices and become independent of energy supplies from third countries?
we must make the best possible use of our energy potential in the european union.
that means energy mix.
this must be the long-term energy policy.
in some regions, wind provides us with energy, in the south, it is more the sun, in some regions we can grow biofuels and in other regions we can mine coal.
shale gas can also increase europe's energy security and reduce its dependence on imports.
it goes without saying that we must not risk the environment and health in this way.
but europe can set environmental standards that must be met if a country chooses to drill.
the european environmental law provides a clear framework for this, which we emphasize and specify in our report.
this includes rigorous environmental tests that must be carried out before each well is drilled.
the highest safety standards and the best available technologies must be used to avoid that today's technology creates tomorrow's waste again.
we need innovation to have highly flexible steel, especially in the field of energy conversion, where there is undoubtedly a demand.
i would like to conclude by saying that when the international telecommunications regulations were introduced in 1988, they were introduced in a traditional network environment based on leased lines, in other words, with separate networks for separate services.
most petitions concern the environment and the failure to comply with eu law.
this is often the case in the environmental field, and it is not enough for the commission to assume that the member state will comply with the laws in force during the procedure.
the aim is to achieve sustainable growth and job creation.
the europe 2020 strategy until the conclusions of the european council in june 2012, there was a growing number of statements in favour of sustainable growth and job creation.
europe needs a strong, modernised, competitive, innovative and 'green' cap more than ever to meet the expectations of europeans in terms of food supply and health, but also to contribute to the fight against climate change and the sustainable management of natural resources.
you all know our proposal, the connecting europe facility, a european interconnection mechanism in the fields of transport, energy and digital technology.
a few fractions of a percentage point less to connect europe means giving up european leadership in transport, abandoning our co2 reduction projects such as the carbon capture and storage project, abandoning the development of the connections between eastern and western europe.
that is why we want to align cohesion policy with the europe 2020 objectives for sustainable and smart growth, not just any kind of growth.
listen to the voices of entrepreneurs who expect investments in infrastructure to connect europe through transport, energy, digital; the voices of food banks against hunger, who would not understand that in the current social emergence, in many of our countries, so many poor people are left without hope; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
listen also to the voice of our international partners, humanitarian organisations, non-governmental organisations, who are calling for europe to remain engaged in the world, in development aid and in leadership in the fight against climate change and for sustainable development; the european union is a great example of the kind of hope that we have for the future of europe.
it is about the new competitiveness of the european union, not about repeating the mistakes of the past with bubble formations in spain or elsewhere, but it is really about sustainable growth.
it's about sustainable investments in the future.
it is about fighting youth unemployment, for the energy transition, for technologies and products that reduce co2, for organic agriculture, for the renovation of old buildings, for the literacy of many people in europe, for investment in the creative industries, which often create more jobs than other sectors.
we cannot continue with certain direct payments to the agro-industry which are not sustainable.
the extraction of shale gas offers the opportunity to reduce our dependence on energy imports.
i believe that shale gas can be extracted and used as long as it is subject to strict environmental requirements.
− energy security is one of the most important principles for good eu policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy market is not affected by the oil price fluctuations.
high safety standards for exploration and extraction are important, as are environmental and health compatibility.
but if they do, the rules should be strict enough to avoid environmental damage, according to the findings of our reports.
we do not want to see a situation like that in the united states or canada, where there has obviously been a lot of environmental exploitation.
but in times when energy has become so expensive, it would be foolish to shut ourselves off from the possibility of extracting shale gas.
the extraction of shale gas could make us independent of expensive imports and is good for our carbon footprint.
in north america, shale gas has already reduced our dependence on foreign energy enormously.
but it is also clear that fracking poses risks, especially for the environment.
in times of exploding energy prices, we must not therefore refuse to discuss the potential opportunities of shale gas extraction.
only if negative environmental effects, such as groundwater contamination, can be safely excluded, may permits for extraction be granted.
we therefore call for a mandatory environmental impact assessment before every well is drilled and for the polluter principle to be established so that citizens do not have to pay for the mine in the end.
a key theme in 2011 was environmental law, where we urgently need better communication between national authorities, the european union and the citizens concerned, in order to resolve many cases in advance.
it is good practice and tradition that we adopt a joint resolution in the run-up to climate conferences, that we prepare the delegation.
we owe these answers to ourselves, because the only way to fight climate change is to work together and to stop it is to work together internationally.
we are also having this debate in doha, because as we know, money is the end of friendship; but with climate change, it's really just getting started.
but it's also important to keep repeating that the trick with climate change is that it doesn't have an immediate impact.
even if we were to decide tomorrow to reduce co2 emissions by 50% immediately, the effects would not be seen for a long time.
that's why climate change and the financial crisis have one thing in common: they're going to cost a lot of money.
but the biggest step that the developed world needs to take is to finance and secure future adaptation and climate action.
we have had a long debate over the last week about how we are going to proceed internally with our emissions trading system.
the area of climate diplomacy, which we in the environment committee have included in the resolution, is also an important point, that is to say that we are pursuing the subject at all levels, including the european external action service, and that it is a recurring topic of discussion at all international meetings.
this will be crucial to combating climate change and to achieving success.
− mr president, i am grateful for this opportunity to discuss with you the climate change conference in doha, which is now less than a week away.
i particularly appreciate the excellent work undertaken by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and would like to thank matthias groote and his co-rapporteurs for their excellent work and for the resolution on which you will be voting tomorrow.
they include international cooperative partnership on energy efficiency, renewable energy, short-lived climate pollutants and hydrofluorocarbons.
we hope that the forthcoming report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change will provide increased momentum in this area.
some people tend to believe that while we have been so busy handling the economic crisis, maybe the climate crisis miraculously solved itself or just went away.
for those people, there was some serious news today when the united nations environment programme (unep) presented its new emissions gap report and nobody should be surprised that it clearly shows that we are not coming closer to where we needed to be now.
the very carefully crafted package in durban must be kept and we must move forward with the climate agenda.
we are working hard to reach agreement on outstanding kyoto issues including the length of the second commitment period, access to kyoto market mechanisms as well as environmental integrity related to the carry-over of assigned amount unit carbon credits (aaus) from the first commitment period.
sustainable energy for all as a follow-up to rio+20 is another example of things that would serve several purposes at the one time, including the climate purpose.
can i say on climate financing there is no doubt that it is also very important when we come to doha that we can prove in black and white – and we will present such a report proving this – that in europe we have actually delivered on our fast-start climate financing pledges from copenhagen.
this could also be secured by further mainstreaming climate considerations into development policy, but we should not fool ourselves.
finally, mr president, not all climate conferences, not all climate cops, are very spectacular and can deliver very grand decisions, but that does not mean that they are not important.
i do not think that it was just a back-up for the delegation to doha, but that in his speech there were very clear warnings to remember that in the whole climate policy the competitiveness of european industry must also be maintained or even reinforced in some corners.
but it can be a success if we take the right steps in the right directions, and that certainly includes climate diplomacy.
the european energy industry as a whole produces 40 million tonnes of energy, and the burning forests in south america three times as much.
the commission is not the last climate summits have not brought about substantial improvements.
small island states and least developed countries remain an existential threat from climate change.
the green climate fund agreed in doha in 2010 needs to be set up, and in addition a decision is needed on the kyoto protocol, which expires at the end of 2012. according to the world bank, the global south needs $100 billion a year to adapt to the impacts of climate change by 2014. it is clear that the industrialized countries must be responsible for financing.
as long as the industrialized and emerging countries do not agree but block each other, doha will not have any positive results for the world climate.
climate action must first be taken at national level and in our case at european level.
the eu must raise its greenhouse gas reduction target for 2020 to 40% of 1990 levels and increase the share of renewable energy to 45% by 2030.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report.
given the situation that kazakhstan's economy is mainly focused on raw materials, the aim is to create a reasonable fiscal and financial framework, but also not to forget the environmental side, in order to guarantee raw material extraction in the interests of the people of kazakhstan, but also in the interests of the environment.
the fourth point: as in all the trade agreements we conclude, trade also means fair conditions of competition in the field of workers' rights and environmental standards.
the commission has also been active in the field of energy policy, and has been active in the field of energy policy in the past.
we must keep all this in mind, because that means sustainable fishing.
msy maximum sustainable yield, this is the way scientific research is done, including racs.
– the population of salmon has dramatically decreased over the past few years, provoked by pollution, some caused by man-made problems, as well as by extensive exploitation of salmon stocks.
that is why there is an obvious need for a sustainable approach in fisheries management with regard to salmon stocks in the baltic sea.
dealing with this issue, the gróbarczyk report suggests that the baltic salmon stock should be exploited in a sustainable way, according to the principle of maximum sustainable yield.
the two areas – or ‘policy groups’ – with the highest estimated error rate were ‘rural development, environment, fisheries and health’, where the error rate was estimated at 7.7 %, and the policy group ‘regional policy, energy and transport’, where the error rate was estimated at 6.0 %.
i want to make this very clear: we want transparency in the investigation and we do not want china to try to prevent investigations by creating a threat environment, by putting pressure on european companies with alleged countermeasures in the pipeline.
we are also putting the world at risk - and mr jadot has spoken of the challenges of renewable energy - of supplying the technologies we urgently need for the energy transition.
(applause)to do that, the euro area member states need to agree to decide on a credible set of measures to restore greece’s debt sustainability.
in this context, we should be clear that this set of measures does not exclude the need to reassess the debt sustainability of greece in the coming years, and it does not exclude taking further decisions as necessary in the light of future developments – depending, of course, on the full implementation of the reform programme by greece.
this is not only barbaric, it's also a huge waste.
cyber attacks, pandemics and energy shortages can also trigger the solidarity clause.
− while the report is based on the correct assumption that climate change can exacerbate existing conflicts, it focuses wrongly on repressive military countermeasures and advocates further militarisation of the eu.
i reject the report because it envisages the systematic integration of military elements into climate policy, calls for the financing of military action in relation to climate change from the eu budget, and advocates the promotion of closer coordination and cooperation between the eu and nato, as well as a particular focus on the development of military capabilities, pooling and sharing, including the pooling of civilian and military assets and capabilities.
the current conflicts in developing countries can only be effectively resolved - including in the context of climate change - by addressing the underlying causes of global inequality and inequity.
libya has always been a key partner in this region, as a partner in energy supply, as a cultural, economic and geopolitical partner, and not least as a key location for immigration flows.
does this look like sustainable development?
the impact assessment has also shown that the agreement will have negative impacts on land, water and climate.
if we reject the agreement, it does not mean that the situation for the people of the country is improving, but that the benefits negotiated in recent years, the benefits that will result from such agreements, cannot be realised, but that we are being thrown back in the european union's relations with the two countries, that we are being thrown back in the interests of the people on the ground, that the improvements that will result in the economic, environmental and social spheres are not coming.
we have insisted that the safeguard clauses mention social and environmental standards for the first time and that the commission is asked to monitor their compliance on a continuous basis and to report to the european parliament.
secondly, we have set up for the first time a european parliament monitoring group to monitor the implementation of the rules on social and environmental standards.
thirdly, with the resolution we adopted in june this year, we for the first time insisted that binding roadmaps for improving human rights, workers' rights and environmental standards be submitted to the european parliament by sovereign states.
in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we should consider very carefully whether what we have achieved here is not conducive to contributing to the further improvement of human rights, labour standards and environmental standards in colombia and peru.
they've been involved in trade unions, they've been involved in human rights organizations, environmental initiatives.
by signing the declaration, have we given the people a commitment to respect human rights, social, cultural and environmental rights, in a concrete, transparent, verifiable and actionable way, here and there?
all the major unions - mrs keller has pointed out - in latin america and in europe, etuc, ituc and others, the human rights and environmental organizations, the council of latin american churches of over 120 churches from 26 countries say no to this agreement.
the subject was extremely difficult and took a great deal of time and energy to complete.
now there's this compromise offer to refinance 6 billion euros in 2012. but that means that 3 billion euros will be carried over to the next financial year, a financial year in which it is also crucial to respond politically to the crisis by making the right investments in research and development, in new competitiveness, in 'green jobs', in ecological growth.
but we thought, as with emissions, there would be noise limits, minimum standards that you can't exceed.
but no: one pays, the others do not, and then the climate killers are favoured and the environmentally friendly modes of transport are damaged.
i am thinking of the abolition of emissions trading in aviation and the immediate implementation of the single european airspace, but also the abolition of air traffic taxes, for example in germany.
the proposals continue to focus on market integration, while social, ecological and democratic aspects are left behind.
for example, they signed the energy charter and then resigned.
and the reason is not a different assessment of the senseless and even dangerous aggravation of the social climate in russia by laws and decrees, especially by the kremlin or the united russia duma faction.
nor is it proposing that the mutually beneficial should be in the specific areas of energy or sustainable modernisation, as is currently being discussed, but rather sets political preconditions and elevates them to the status of absolutes.
russia is an important strategic partner, not only for energy and economic reasons, but - you only have to look at the map - in this changed world.
monday was also the first opportunity for the foreign affairs council to take stock of the ceasefire and discuss potential eu support to ensure it is sustainable.
there will be no sustainable peace until the palestinians’ aspirations for statehood and sovereignty and those of israel for security are fulfilled through a comprehensive negotiated peace based on the two-state solution.
apart from these political reforms, we will also pay particular attention to the business and investment climate and to those areas where sustained efforts are required to enable us to support ukraine through financial assistance.
the european union is also ready to assist ukraine through an informal dialogue on the business climate.
we will continue our efforts to facilitate support from the international financial institutions for the modernisation of the ukrainian gas transmission system, in accordance with existing agreements, including the energy community treaty.
this includes a fair tax policy which also involves the rich in europe in dealing with the burden and opens up new prospects for europe, and this includes an offensive european industrial policy which creates good jobs, for example through climate protection and energy transition and particularly in public services.
energy, transport and telecommunications are very important here, and this too with private participation.
continued reform is needed to generate the conditions for sustainable growth and jobs, and that is why the commission, in its annual growth survey for 2013, has stressed the following five priorities.