the only sustainable future for our social market economies is to embrace change and increase competitiveness.
the eu has developed an ambitious policy on energy and climate issues.
we are a leader on the global stage in this field but, to maintain our position and to encourage others, we need new initiatives in areas such as energy efficiency and renewable energy.
think about it: more than 20 million jobs are linked to the environment in one way or another.
the europe 2020 strategy is not a strategy that can wait until 2020. it needs action now, and central to the strategy is sustainable growth.
the commission looks to the danish presidency to conclude negotiations on the energy efficiency directive that we proposed in june last year, and to move forward with the low-carbon energy road map for 2050 that we presented in december.
these discussions will not be easy in the current climate, but i believe that the proposals on the table are balanced and at the same time ambitious and realistic.
i also expect europe to play a key role in the rio+20 negotiations, confirming our leadership role on matters of sustainable development.
once the economic agenda is set in motion, i would like to see denmark take a firm stand on energy.
in 2011, the eu spent €315 billion buying oil into europe, and there is a lot of money being focused on energy efficiency that can be saved and that can stay in the area.
if we get a strong directive on energy efficiency, we will increase europe's competitiveness, our innovation and, not least, our ability to act on global markets.
by doing something good for the environment and by doing something good for the climate, we can also create jobs, we can also create growth.
take for example the energy efficiency directive.
we are talking about the fact that if we reduce our co2 emissions in europe by 25% internally - we can do that by being 20% more energy efficient than we are today - we can create 2 million jobs.
i think that if we do exactly what the danish presidency proposes, which is to go for growth which is also sustainable from an economic and a social point of view, it will make a positive difference to the lives of ordinary citizens of europe.
it is about focusing hard on creating green growth, sustainable growth and new green jobs.
the danish presidency is expected to focus on reforming the eu's energy consumption.
i hope that the presidency will support the development of completely new renewable energy initiatives.
i expect the presidency not to waste time on treaty amendments which do not have the support of the people.
many of us always praise you when you are in parliament because you are always at the forefront of the climate fight and always take a very progressive and ambitious line.
the explanation is as follows: the fact that we could not achieve anything better than a legal obligation to reduce co2 emissions by 2020 is not the same as accepting it!
the problem with doing that is that we've actually said to the rest of the world that we accept that there's not going to be any legally binding action that can keep us below 2 degrees by 2020. and everyone in this room, everyone who is following this debate via webstream or otherwise, who is interested in the climate, knows that it will be too late!
all the science says it, the international energy agency says it, and it's hard to find people who understand this who don't agree with it.
it can be accepted without fines, but if a country chooses to make massive public investments, for example by borrowing to create green jobs in solar, wind and wave energy and thus create jobs, then the eu's hammer falls!
it has become too general a report, which perhaps should have been in the environment committee.
we must work to meet all the requirements of the waste directive, but also have a smart investment in facilities that can recover the resources, so that we get a modern development in our waste strategy.
fisheries must coexist with biodiversity and the marine environment.
we also need to fish for waste and care for the coastal marine environment.
- i voted in favour of the report, but i support the agreement on biodiversity from the nagoya un meeting in october 2010, which declared that all subsidy schemes that threaten fish stocks should be abolished.
but only when this does not contribute to overfishing or adversely affect the environment.
- we, the danish social democrats in the european parliament, have voted in favour of the texeira report on the role of cohesion policy in relation to the eu's outermost regions in the context of the eu 2020. the report sets out a range of good practices to achieve the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the eu's outermost regions outlined in the eu 2020 strategy.
i have to say, madam president, i just went online to see the program for the biodiversity conference in hyderabad, india, this october.
in the report by mr gerbrandy, on the other hand, we are very precise, both when we talk about new measures, such as a comprehensive land framework directive for the whole union, and when we talk about the financing of biodiversity.
however, the report also contains a lot of good things, including the requirement for best practice on available scientific data to avoid biodiversity loss.
it is not sustainable to undertake a revision every two or three years, so we need to break down the barriers between our national telecommunication markets to create market pressure to lower the prices.
we are faced with energy efficiency problems.
this will help to solve both climate and employment problems, while at the same time using the funds for the benefit of small and mediumsized enterprises.
it has been said that a ftt must necessarily be global in order to be sustainable, but the fact is that a number of countries around the world already have some form of transaction tax, such as the uk, south korea, switzerland, india, hong kong and south africa.
the european parliament has recently approved a number of reports aimed at improving resource efficiency throughout our part of the world, including by minimising food waste.
these are sensible initiatives which will strengthen cooperation in europe towards more sustainable development, including better use of our common resources.
this report calls for joint changes in tax and waste systems and calls for the use of public funds.
in my view, tax and waste systems are national competence and should not be dictated by a european report, but must be adapted to local, regional and national conditions.
i miss the fact that the report takes a position on the dumping of eu waste to third countries, such as plastic waste, which should remain in the eu for recycling in order to create local jobs and reduce imports of raw materials.
it is quite rightly said in this report that more and more countries are viewing energy policy as a policy of power.
at the same time, i am opposed to the search for energy in the arctic region.
however, my vote does not change my support for cooperation with third countries, especially developing countries, on research and development cooperation on low-emission technologies and innovation and sharing of data on knowledge transfer, including in the field of clean and renewable energy sources, as set out in paragraph 78. at the same time, i am in favour of clean and renewable sources of energy that are not dependent on fossil fuels or nuclear energy.
it is not just the economic framework that is at stake, but also some 60 different pieces of legislation which define the future agricultural policy, the rules for the structural funds, research programmes, training programmes, transport investments and energy investments.
let me give you an example: six months after the last budgetary framework was adopted, the russians cut off gas supplies to bulgaria, and then we found out that we had to have an eu energy policy.
however, there was no money to support such an energy policy.
at the same time, the agreement supports the implementation of the countries' own strategies for sustainable development and poverty reduction.
i support a version of a financial transaction tax - the so-called 'robin hood tax' - where the proceeds go to the member states to finance welfare and combat climate change and poverty in developing countries.
the trade and sustainable development section of the fta provides for the establishment of monitoring mechanisms involving civil society organisations.
this poses risks to their lives and health and irreparable damage to the environment.
but because of the opposition in the council, the possibility of protecting citizens and the environment in the event of accidents is not being used to the full.
the energy efficiency directive also stands out from other concrete results.
the european debt crisis caused europe's leaders to devote all their energy to talking about a fiscal compact and union.
but it has been a difficult working environment for the whole presidency.
the council has in fact decided that european fisheries should not be made sustainable.
the commission has made a serious proposal which both limits expenditure and allows us to invest more aggressively in joint research, investment in transport and energy networks and in education.
it is also important for us greens to give high priority to the social and environmental aspects of our social development.
in fact, we believe that a more holistic approach to the crisis is the only sustainable way out.
it is also standards that help to make products on the european market safer in general, from toys to building construction, and it is standards that help us to test our food and help us to ensure that the environment is protected.
secondly, it is essential that we have secured a wider participation in the standardization work, and it has been essential for us in the socialist group to ensure that consumers, workers, environmental organizations, etc.
workers, consumers, environmental organisations and businesses are all benefiting greatly from this revision of the standardisation legislation, which makes it easier, better and faster to create standards.
mr president, we are now forcing some of our maritime transport onto land, and it is going to be bad environmental accounting when lorries have to drive through the whole of the baltic and into germany.
i have always said: 'yes, if we save energy, we can do a great deal to help europe out of the crisis.'
we have already made progress in our renewable energy and co2 reduction targets, but we are not good enough to save energy.
but before we can save, we have to invest, and energy savings are a really good investment.
investing in energy efficiency does not just mean saving on electricity bills.
investments in building renovation and more energy-efficient technology will also stimulate european economies and create new green jobs notably locally in the member states.
because you can't move tasks like building cavity insulation or energy auditing overseas.
the vote on the energy efficiency directive today will be bittersweet.
without the directive, the eu would save only 9% of its energy in 2020. the new directive will save us 15%, and perhaps even more, and is a sensible step in the right direction.
with these words i would like to urge you to vote yes to the energy efficiency directive, but do not forget that we are still far from the target.
mr president, for me as a dane, it is safe to say that although energy efficiency has maybe faded a bit from a public perspective during the current economic situation, the dossier was by far one of the most important tasks for the danish presidency and – let us be honest – it was not a walkover for anybody to get a first agreement.
having been in close contact with minister lidegaard during and after the negotiations, i know that the presidency was extremely grateful to this house: to the committee on industry, trade and energy as a whole and to the rapporteur and the shadows in particular.
that's money that can be used for new energy renovations.
i would have liked a more ambitious agreement, but i think it is a great achievement that we have got this part of the agreement, for example, on the energy saving scheme.
we have tried the energy saving scheme in denmark and it now appears that we can actually save even more by means of voluntary agreements.
it is clear to everyone that we lack investment in infrastructure, in other words energy infrastructure.
i would like to be quite clear in saying that i am a strong advocate of decoupling and liberalisation in the energy sector.
sustainability must be a leading criterion for the eu, whether fishing is in the pacific, the indian or the atlantic.
however, for certain highly migratory fish stocks, sustainable management will require cooperation between the countries exploiting the resources.
we have now, and it's a victory for sustainability.
our fishing industry is losing jobs, the marine environment and biodiversity are threatened.
commissioner damanakis's move showed the way towards sustainable fishing in europe, but eu fisheries ministers agreed on a reform with a scary future for the sector, as it will, among other things, postpone msy to 2020. overfishing has led to 30% of jobs in the sector being lost over the last 10 years, but the introduction of msy from 2015 would give the fish stocks time to recover so that we can restore a greater number of jobs from 2020. the salavrakos report sends a strong signal to the council and the commission that we will not accept that short-term national interests are again prioritised.
we need to reduce fleet capacity to a sustainable level.
- there are several positive elements in the report, for example in paragraph 10: 'i believe that the objective of achieving the maximum sustainable yield should be implemented immediately'.
unfortunately, there was a rather narrow majority for the following wording in paragraph 9: 'levels close to those which produce the maximum sustainable yield', whereas in the interests of sustainability - to create a better future for industry and to ensure fish for consumers - we had wanted a wording which said that stocks should be restored to 'a level higher than those which produce the maximum sustainable yield'.
it is no secret that europe's largest energy companies have strong links with the political world.
we should ensure that the european energy market is transparent and liquid.
it must be taken as seriously as putting people to work and fighting poverty and protecting the environment.
i believe we should live by having the best educated people, having the most jobs, having the strongest environment.
i would also like to highlight the example we have with project bonds, where we now have our pilot project under way - and i am glad to hear that - where eu guarantees will enable large transport and energy projects to finance themselves cheaply on the loan market through the issuance of bonds.
we therefore also support paragraph 11, paragraph 7: the requirement that russia fully respect and enforce human and workers' rights and a commitment to implement international environmental standards - in dialogue with relevant stakeholders and civil society.
the question is how to deal with this new energy source.
on the one hand, shale gas offers an opportunity to achieve energy independence and the unconventional gas can replace conventional energy sources.
on the other hand, we know from bitter experience that in many places drilling underground has caused serious damage to the surrounding environment and in particular to groundwater.
but when we are considering together what forms of energy will constitute the future energy supply in europe, it is important that we think long term, because any damage will only become apparent after many years of drilling.
it can be a volatile underground, as we have seen both in germany and in america, water pollution, environmental damage and costs to both people and animals.
we should not think that shale gas will solve all our energy problems.
we need to invest in a wide mix of energy sources, from gas from food waste to renewable energy and - in some countries - shale gas.
we must adapt legislation in this area as quickly as possible and must have a boost in research and development to improve the safety of drilling to ensure that a new energy venture will not harm either citizens or the environment.
we therefore risk that the common and forward-looking investments in research, education, transport and energy will be given less priority in the negotiations in the coming days.
one of the most exciting proposals the commission has put forward is a fund for investment in transport and energy, the connecting europe facility.
in the united states the price of gas is one fifth of the price of gas in europe, and therefore we must of course not exclude new forms of energy.
there is no doubt that we must ensure that environmental conditions are right.
europe needs more energy supplies.
it concluded that science tells us that if we do not fundamentally change the way we consume and produce energy now, then we risk having a temperature increase of 4° within 60 years.
we cannot force other countries to decrease their co2 emissions because we do not have the hard power to do that, but we have something different, namely soft power.
if we go further than the rest – if we show that we can be competitive at the same time as doing the right things to save the climate – then maybe that is the best thing to do.
that is why our group argues that we should be more ambitious, so that in 2020 we will reduce our emissions by 30% instead of 20%, and in 2030 we will need an equally ambitious target.
this is a major step towards a more sustainable and sustainable fisheries.
it also supports the wording of point k, which emphasises that mandatory fleet reduction achieved solely through market instruments such as tradable fishing quota shares (tfcs) may lead to a greater presence of operators that are more competitive from a purely economic point of view, to the detriment of those operators and fleet segments that have less impact on the environment and create more employment (directly and indirectly).
finally, i would like to thank the committee on agriculture for its opinion, my colleagues in the committee on the environment for the many good amendments and, in particular, the shadow rapporteurs for their diligent work to achieve compromises.
we wanted more money for research and innovation, and that goes back to the old thinking we have in this parliament, namely that we do not think that the iter fusion energy programme should mean that savings should be made on other important research projects.