they are concerned about healthy food and a clean environment.
the most important thing is that we negotiate on an equal footing with the european council: whether it is the financial perspective, the reform of agricultural, fisheries and regional policy, the fight against climate change, financial market legislation, justice, home affairs - parliament has also been given enormous additional responsibility in trade policy.
more specifically, it implies providing an effective firewall in the short-run and introducing eurobonds, a financial transaction tax and a meaningful sustainable growth and employment strategy as soon as possible.
mr president, after the climate change conferences, which have been held since 1995, it can be said that they are doomed to failure as they are conceived.
on the other hand, climate change is also hiding deep-seated problems in societies, such as their development and educational models, social differences, poverty, etc.
the european union must keep its environmental flags flying, and commissioner hedegaard did that very well in durban.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr aldo patriciello, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a space strategy for the european union serving the citizen (2011/2148 (ini)) (a7-0431/2011).
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr salvatore caronna, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on how to avoid food waste: strategies to improve the efficiency of the food chain in the eu (2011/2175 (ini)) (a7-0430/2011).
i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr caronna, and the members of the committee on agriculture, the committee on the environment and the committee on the internal market for this report.
given the negative effects, particularly on the environment and food security, the issue of food waste is clearly attracting increasing attention.
the commission has already adopted several proposals and is working on others which will help to tackle the problem of food waste at different levels.
existing measures, which will help to strengthen the sustainability of the agricultural sector, for example agri-environmental programmes, will be maintained.
the commission is also developing a european innovation partnership on agricultural productivity and sustainable development, which aims to promote sustainable agriculture that delivers more with less.
the high-level forums on improving the functioning of the food supply chain, which we discussed earlier this morning, are also working on the issues of optimising food packaging and limiting food waste to a maximum.
the commission uses platforms such as the european retail forum on sustainability, the european roundtable on sustainable food production and consumption and an informal network of member states to address the issue of environmental sustainability.
on 20 september, the commission also set out a roadmap for a resource-efficient europe, which aims to transform the european economy into a sustainable system by 2050. it shows that food is one of the key sectors that can help us achieve our resource efficiency objectives.
the roadmap sets the ambitious target of halving food waste in the eu by 2020 and reducing resources in the agri-food chain by 20% by the same date.
the roadmap also calls for the development of a communication on sustainable food in 2013 to advance this complex issue in a coherent and concrete way.
it also advocates the development of a methodology, based on sustainability criteria, for the main food commodities by 2014. in recommendation 35 of your report, you ask the commission and the council to declare 2013 the 'european year against food waste'.
my colleague, commissioner dalli, has discussed this possibility with your rapporteur, because everyone generally agrees that something must be done to combat food waste throughout the agri-food chain.
the benefits of such harmonised regulations are tangible in road safety, environmental protection and trade.
we pushed particularly for the collection targets to be based on actual waste quantities arising; for retailer take-back (i.e.
this new initiative report identifies problems upstream of farm production, focusing on rising costs of purchased farm inputs over the past decade in the fields of energy, machinery, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds, and water.
the negotiating position of the greens was based on the commission communication of 28 october 2009 entitled ‘a better functioning food supply chain in europe’ (com(2009)0591), since it recognises the existence of major power imbalances among operators, although believing that the measures suggested in that communication are not sufficient to deal with the problems involved; that is why we (greens) wanted to call on the commission and member states to urgently address the problem of unfair distribution of profits within the food chain, especially with regard to adequate incomes for farmers; recognises that to stimulate sustainable and ethical production systems farmers need to be compensated for their investments and commitments in these areas; emphasises that power struggles must give way to cooperative relationships;
in writing.
food waste has assumed such proportions that it can be regarded as a global problem that is reflected right along the food supply chain, from the field to the fork.
it is estimated, based on data gathered since 1974, that food waste around the world has risen by 50%.
waste occurs on farmland, in the processing industry, in distribution companies and in consumers’ homes; there is waste in industrialised countries and in developing countries.
the issue of food waste conflicts with the fundamental problem of food supply, which is seriously compromised by a number of factors, including limited natural resources as compared with the growth in the world population and the meagre access of the poorest population groups to food.
i was at the european defence agency yesterday, where the theme of what i was saying – which has been widely reported – was the need to see that in this economic climate pooling and sharing becomes even more important.
− i have to say that this is an interesting interpretation of the international atomic energy agency’s report because i would not necessarily – if you will forgive me – agree with you on what they say they have found.
by doing so we have ensured that the eu and member states will be able to have the time and means to adjust and ensure the continuity of their energy supplies.
but apart from being coherent, these measures must be effective in order to give priority to the path of dialogue, to get iran back to the negotiating table, to get it to cooperate fully with the inspectors of the international atomic energy agency and also, mrs ashton, to put out the war drums that are already beating: israel has said that all options are open and some republican preselect in the united states has said that we must act quickly.
and what we must insist on is the rigorous inspections by the international atomic energy agency, on iran's acceptance of all the safeguard measures imposed by this agency in exchange for the production of enriched uranium for civilian use, as permitted by the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
the production of uranium by iran must be controlled by all the measures of the international atomic energy agency and we must create the conditions and confidence-building measures with a broader and more ambitious agenda in our relations with iran.
mr president, russia is an important neighbour of the european union, both geographically and historically, and also a very important economic and energy partner.
i'm not going to waste a second debunking some of the lies that have been told here.
mr president, it is almost a year since the committee on petitions decided to draw up a report on waste management in the european union.
the decision was taken after it was found that there were many and repeated petitions against the poor management of waste by the authorities, the location of certain landfills, the destruction of certain natural areas, etc.
however, the issue that is raising a growing number of requests is the apparent inability of public authorities in many countries to address the problem of waste management satisfactorily.
the european union has adopted a large number of legislative measures, applicable in all member states, in order to ensure that the necessary legal framework exists to deal with the inevitable consequence of our modern lifestyle in terms of all the things we throw away as waste from our homes, our workplaces, our hospitals, our industries, etc.
it is clear to everyone that failing to address these issues and to prioritise efforts in this direction has negative effects, not only on the health and well-being of people, but also on the viability of the planet and its environment.
judging by the petitions received, this concern is growing in many local communities, which indicates that waste management is becoming a serious political and social problem and that citizens expect the european union to solve it in some way.
analysis of waste management policies in the member states of the european union has revealed wide discrepancies and serious breaches of european union legislation.
in its strategic report on waste prevention and recycling, the commission clearly demonstrates that it is doing everything possible to tackle the problem of waste management and also outlines its medium-term proposals.
closely related to the waste management process, although at the highest level of the process, are the european union directives regulating environmental impact assessment and citizens' access to environmental information.
an example is my own country, galicia, where waste management does not give priority to prevention, reuse and recycling, as mentioned in paragraph 12 of your report.
galicia already incinerates 42% of its waste and the galician government is planning a new incinerator in o irixo, which consolidates this system as a hegemonic bet for waste treatment.
moreover, although it is a project to incinerate half of the waste reaching 3 million people, it does not comply with the environmental impact assessment referred to in points 18 to 25, opting for a shortened procedure.
i therefore call for the european waste legislation to be respected and i ask you to send your report to the galician government.
first, for the commission the number one priority is to put in place the right sequencing of action, namely first reuse, recycle, recover and, only if that is not possible, go for landfills based on stringent environmental impact assessments.
during this process we naturally look very seriously at the transportation of waste.
obviously, when action falls short, we do not hesitate to start infringement procedures – out of 19 which have been started, nine are still ongoing – and also, as a last resort, to take member states to the european court of justice for breaches of eu waste legislation.
may i just stress that one third of the environmental cases concern failure to deal properly with waste management.
i completely agree that not only should we do the right thing at home but we should also set the right example for developing countries, because a mountain of waste somewhere else would actually have implications for the status of our planet.
i could not agree more with the point that has been made by members that in these tough economic times, waste reuse, recycling and recovery is an economic opportunity and we should not miss out on a good crisis to grab it.
there was a specific question on mining waste.
may i just add that i spent most of my professional career working on the environment.
i started because a member of my family got sick – irrevocable damage was caused to his health – because of groundwater pollution.
apart from the fact that they are addressed to other committees, such as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and that opinions or reports on these issues can also be drawn up in other committees, i believe that in the committee on petitions, when citizens come to us, they want us to answer them, they want us to give them a solution to their problems and, without a doubt, we cannot look the other way, divert attention, because if we did, the committee on petitions itself would lack the reasons for its existence, its work and its behaviour within the european parliament.
that said, i would also like to say to some colleagues that in the petitions we have always been told about the existence of deficiencies in waste management and the frequent inability, it is true, of the member states to comply with their legal obligations.
but this report also addresses these issues and calls on the member states to transpose the waste directive without further delay and to ensure full compliance with all its requirements, in particular by drawing up and implementing comprehensive waste management plans.
the eu should invest in strategic partnerships with each brics country and other emerging economies, as they increasingly play a role in the international arena, particularly in international organisations, such as the un, as a means of advancing common goals, namely peace and global security, the rule of law domestically or internationally, the promotion of human rights, democracy, sustainable development and global financial regulation.
those that were rejected are: our amendments 1, 2, 6 on the dangers of nuclear energy; reduction of oil and gas consumption in europe; condemnation of all acts of aggression (against the uk embassy or against iranian scientists or infrastructure).
a main objective for us was to point out that rational and efficient waste management strategies and practices which follow the waste management hierarchy are not only necessary for the protection of human health and the environment, but also the most beneficial from the point of view of economics, raw-material resource and employment policy.
a second objective was to ensure that the report is explicit about the serious problems related to criminal activities and corruption in the field of waste management, in particular when toxic and hazardous waste is involved, and the need to improve monitoring by the member states in order to combat this.
− access to energy is a fundamental requirement for reducing poverty and enabling human development.
the united nations launched the goal of 'universal access to energy by 2030' in 2010. according to the international energy agency, 1.5 billion people do not have access to electricity.
it is estimated that the energy required to provide energy to everyone would not entail any significant increase in global consumption or emissions.
traditionally, eu support for cooperation has focused on economic growth and environmental objectives.
access to energy for people living in poverty has not received the attention it deserves.
it is therefore welcome that the report we have adopted today calls for universal access to energy to be one of the objectives of the eu's development and cooperation policies.
the aim is to consolidate the eu's political will and financial commitment to play a major role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030.
in writing.
access to modern energy services is a fundamental prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable human development.
energy services impact upon all aspects of people’s lives and livelihoods – without access whole communities are constrained to a life of poverty.
the importance of energy access demands greater attention from the international community.
to begin to address this, in september 2010 the united nations secretary general, ban ki moon, launched the target of ‘universal energy access by 2030’.
he underlined the importance of energy access in poverty reduction and the role of energy services in meeting the millennium development goals (mdgs).
- i abstained on paragraph 37 because it is assumed that all developing countries have problems of safety and sustainability.
we have the ability... mr karim, mr daul and mrs zimmer have just mentioned a subject which interests me and on which i feel committed, which is what i might call universal services, basic services for people, whether it be housing, food or energy.
the poor suffer most from the crisis, and in winter much more: homeless, extremely cold, without energy and without food, affecting the most vulnerable, children, the elderly and the sick.
it is therefore your responsibility to bring to this house a multiannual plan setting out the measures needed to make the hake fishery environmentally, socially and economically sustainable.
it is a fresh fish that is consumed during the day and that, in addition to environmental sustainability for the ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, fishing is more than a source of high-quality protein: it is a way of life.
the reform of the common fisheries policy is therefore an indicator of the european union's commitment to sustainability.
it must be a reform with an overall dimension from the economic, social, territorial and environmental points of view.
the sector's involvement in the development of sustainable fisheries and the promotion of local development and fishing communities is also needed.
the environment requires the conservation of resources, ecosystems and biodiversity.
good environmental practices must be encouraged, differentiating not only small-scale fishing but also aquaculture, with extensive and traditional activities, and it is necessary to frame all this in an integrated maritime policy.
small-scale fisheries are an example of social, territorial and economic cohesion and are also more ecological, but the sector is very concerned about the conservation of fish on account of the pollution of waters.
the commissioner was just telling us that fishing is now quite sustainable.
i agree with those members of this house who stressed that, in order to achieve social sustainability, we need healthy stocks.
we have to have discussions and find ways to sustain the stocks because, for example, if we reach maximum sustainable yield by 2015, many jobs will be added to the sector.
i therefore fully agree with mr davies and mr cadec, among others, on the need to ensure the sustainability of fish stocks.
the protocol allows vessels to fish for tuna (spain, france, portugal), shrimp (spain, italy, greece, portugal) and fish and octopus (spain, italy, greece), in exchange for payments of eur 7 million per year, of which 35 % has been earmarked for helping guinea-bissau develop sustainable and responsible fisheries.
mr president, the reform proposed by the commission will not solve the tragic situation of many european farmers, as in my own country, galicia, because production continues to be concentrated in large industrial farms, which cause a huge social, environmental and territorial disaster.
but beyond that - and i repeat, it is not the only reason - we believe that this agreement must be renegotiated to adapt it to the needs of sustainable economic and social development and to promote regional integration.
the protection of the environment, of resources, of the right pay for producers and of sustainable jobs should be considered; i am not sure that this is the case either.
it should also be added that our farmers have to respect strict quality, environmental and social standards which are not always respected by our moroccan partners.
and this signal must be twofold: first, to promote agreements that promote socially, economically and ecologically sustainable agricultural models; second, that international law and respect for the human and collective rights of the saharawi people are respected.
it benefits only large companies and investment funds, which evade european social and environmental standards.
the agreement contains no social, labour or environmental clauses, speculates on food and encourages unfair competition.
fourth, we will meet the need for spectrum in sectors like transport, energy, the environment, earth observation, civil protection and the internet of things.
integrated active inclusion strategies, measures to support sustainable job creation, especially for young people, and finally, undertaking the reforms that our labour markets need, as is being done in spain at the moment, should be priority elements in national programmes and in the social policy of the european union.
production will continue to be concentrated on farms that are bigger and bigger, more and more industrialized, to the detriment of sustainable family production and maintaining production in all the dairy regions of europe.
another milk policy is indispensable, one which gives priority to the regulation of production - a necessary condition for a stable and fair milk price - and to sustainable milk production based on forage production in the different regions and linked to the land.
now, to do this, it extends the recipe of "more of the same", of insisting on the neoliberal policies that have brought us to the current situation: deepening the liberalization and structural reforms of the labor market, with the flexibilization of work and working hours, to improve a conducive environment for business, all this through national reforms in the sense of the objectives set in the strategy 2020 and in the process of economic governance.
however, we often wonder whether, apart from being necessary, the budget of this house is sustainable in the medium term and in this economic crisis.
the ep underlines that the plan’s objective is to maintain the biomass of western horse mackerel at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation, and to provide the highest long-term yield; it believes that the harvest control rule should be based in equal parts on precautionary advice and on recent total allowable catches, adjusted by a factor that reflects the recent trend in the stock abundance as measured through egg production; it stresses that the harvest control rules are core elements of the multiannual plans that must be decided under the ordinary legislative procedure.
i take the view, therefore, that the reformed cfp needs to guarantee the maintenance of the fisheries, in its main activities – extracting, processing and marketing – in its traditional zones, and within the framework of a sustainable balance between environmental protection, social development and economic profitability.
but beyond that, we believe that this treaty must be renegotiated to adapt it to the needs of sustainable economic and social development.
this treaty also has little regard for the protection of the natural environment, the exploitation of resources, the proper allocation of farmers' wages and the creation of sustainable jobs.
- full reciprocity of plant health, environmental, hygiene and safety standards.
it supports the commission’s endeavours to give preferential access to the eu internal market to goods produced and cumulated in the mediterranean region and hopes that the new democracies that will emerge in the region following the arab spring will promote human and social rights and deepen the political dialogue, which should create an environment more friendly to intra-regional trade, as one reason for the lack of trade was the policies implemented by the previous dictatorial leaderships.
but we forget that outside the firewalls - i think we will be taking decisions in the coming weeks - what is sustainable - of course, too little has been said about it - is structural reforms in the labour market and in the product market.
the president of the commission rightly referred to the europe 2020 strategy, and the whole point of fiscal consolidation is to set priorities, to consolidate and generally to reduce deficits and debt levels while safeguarding the future, by preserving a certain type of expenditure on research and development, education, training of young people, investments, particularly climate investments.
we must keep the focus on climate objectives in the midst of fiscal consolidation.
we still have to work on another one on energy efficiency.
and then the medium term, because it takes time to vote on the texts, is the ecosystem that we are creating together with these 50 measures to facilitate the internal market.
these are profitable companies, but they are also companies with a particular ethic, either in the composition of their staff, for example disabled or people in integration, or in the markets they are trying to conquer in social or environmental terms.
while it is true that the european commission has no competences as regards wage-related questions, we have to see how, in the broader framework of economic governance, wage-related questions – wage trends, wage-setting mechanisms – can play a role in terms of developing a more stable and more dynamic environment.
that is why – in cooperation with michel barnier, who was also part of our efforts to develop sustainable and adequate pensions – we also sought to ensure that, regardless of whether someone is working or retired, there is a guarantee of a decent income level.
you will find in each case this particular attention - sometimes new - to the role, to the investment capacity, to the administrative ease, to the simplification, to give european smes the best ecosystem.
if you read the single market act, the 12 levers of growth and all the proposals that are on your table, at least 20 of them, with hardworking rapporteurs, you will see quite frankly that 80% of them have an interest in smes in the ecosystem we want to create, where the single market is now a space of opportunities rather than a space of constraints, especially for smes.
additionally we have to find a place for iter financing and we also have to accommodate croatia joining as member state number 28 as from july 2013. therefore, concerning the area of savings and to prove that we are really taking into account all sorts of things in the environment of today’s europe, we must consider administration.
in this report we therefore ask them to use the budget to implement measures that strengthen solidarity and stimulate sustainable economic growth.
they have to work in the eu budget to develop the europe 2020 policies - which we always forget - to foster competitiveness and innovation; they have to present a budget that supports smes and prevents them from reducing their investments because of the crisis; they have to commit to a sustainable industrial policy; they have to urgently address unemployment and the rising level of poverty in the eu; and they can only do this with a serious and responsible budget, coordinated with national budgets and geared towards meeting the priorities of the union.
we believe that, through increased funding from the fund, it is possible to help these countries to implement policies not only of european cohesion but also of sustainable development of fisheries and employment in their territories.
i also believe that a convincing track record of reforms can contribute to creating a positive political climate, which remains essential in order to clear the road for the start of accession negotiations in the near future.
for the greens, this is a field in which we hope to establish criteria for ecological dumping.
the new agreement’s objectives are to promote international cooperation in the world cocoa economy; to provide an appropriate framework for discussion on all cocoa matters among governments and with the private sector; to contribute to the strengthening of the national cocoa economies of member countries; to strive to obtain fair prices leading to equitable economic returns for both producers and consumers; to promote an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy; to promote transparency in the world cocoa economy through the collection, analysis and dissemination of relevant statistics and the undertaking of appropriate studies; to strive to eliminate trade barriers; to promote and to encourage the consumption of chocolate and cocoa-based products; to encourage members to enhance cocoa quality.
overall, the agreement aims to bring more transparency and sustainability into a sector on which 50 million livelihoods depend throughout the world.
without russia we cannot solve the regional challenges in our common neighbourhood, in syria or iran, or most of the pressing global challenges such as climate change and the environment.
in the case of fisheries, they observe good environmental practices and support local development.
and if this model were followed, the sustainability of fisheries around the world would be different.
but today, the limitation of rights and the economic crisis have meant a drastic reduction in the price of carbon, that is, it is so low that it is cheap to pollute.
if the emission allowances are not valued, the incentive to increase emissions is being given, polluting industries will not invest in new techniques and, what is worse, the financing of important projects, such as energy efficiency projects or carbon storage plants, will be jeopardised.
the first is perhaps the most debated issue in the report and the one which causes the most disagreement, namely whether or not to deal with the emissions trading mechanism.
what we need to do is push it so that we can get out of the crisis and so the emissions market will be back to what it was.
secondly, in relation to this road map which, as has been said here, has so many uncertainties, if we were to draw a plan with different avenues that would lead us to the final objective - which would be to have a low-carbon economy - there is one avenue, there is one route, which is the main one, which is that of energy efficiency.
we have reached agreement on the energy efficiency directive with a great deal of effort from all the groups in this parliament.
we have done that with energy efficiency, why don't we do that today with this report?
mr president, there is a problem that concerns me, and that is that for many people water is a non-renewable resource.
water is partly renewable, not always.
many aquifers are not renewable, but the water returns to the land.
in this context of crisis, it is necessary to adopt a new model of water culture, to change the paradigm, to focus on sustainability.
although some good things were saved in the text, that is; endorses the commission’s roadmap together with its trajectory, the specific milestones for domestic emission reductions of 40 %, 60 % and 80 % for 2030, 2040 and 2050 respectively, and the ranges for sector-specific milestones, as the basis for proposing legislative and other initiatives on economic and climate policy; [trajectory implies 25% domestic reductions for 2020; acknowledges that 20 % energy efficiency would mean internal reduction of 25 % or more by 2020, and that, according to the rm, less ambitious approach would result in significantly higher costs; or recognises current 20 % climate target is not on a cost-effective pathway towards 2050; among others) it also kept very bad aspects, being the most damaging the no explicit call for move to a 30% (rcv am1/2: 232/383/15), or 25% domestic (rcv am1/1: 241/378/11)eu target for 2020 and the fact that member states should have widest possible means of achieving low-carbon electricity generation (including renewable energy sources, nuclear power, use of carbon capture and storage technology, and sustainably produced biomass) rcvpara72/2: 357/238/x).
as regards energy for instance, turkey and the commission have agreed to set up a joint working group, which will develop a road map by may to identify concrete actions for intensified cooperation.
we can't waste time debating the procedure.
mr president, the preservation of biodiversity is one of the objectives of the european union, which unfortunately is not always met with the necessary effectiveness.
the outermost regions of the european union comprise a set of regions which, due to the specific characteristics associated with their physical and structural conditions and resulting from their remoteness, insular locations, difficult topography and climate, constitute a specific group of regions recognised by article 349 of the tfeu(1).
this is even more the case in the context of the current economic climate and the need for all the member states to ensure ambitious, fiscal consolidation.
− mr president, on monday the argentinian government announced that it intends to expropriate the majority share held by a spanish company in the ypf energy company.
this is the case with regard both to the continuing attractiveness of investing in argentina and to the wider business environment.
such unilateral measures are not helpful to a flourishing business environment, and they risk creating wider difficulties in the relationship between the eu and argentina.
legal certainty is essential in our globalised economic environment.
it is clear that the climate created by the expropriation does not allow it to take place in argentina.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i will not waste much time in qualifying the decision and the procedure adopted by the government of argentina in the expropriation of ypf-repsol.
i agree that we are in a crisis situation, but you have forgotten to mention one important dimension, which is the climate dimension, the environmental dimension.
given that the burning of fossil fuels is one of the main causes of climate change, would it not be more interesting, more timely, more reasonable for two countries - and in this case two regions - to cooperate in finding solutions that could deal with this situation and not compete, as they are doing at the moment, to continue consuming fossil resources whose use, moreover, somehow pollutes us all?
mr president, you cannot use the climate crisis as an excuse to cover up an injustice of this nature.
in view of the negative climate change we are currently experiencing, we cannot in any way hide the injustices, arbitrariness and legal uncertainties that are taking place in a country such as argentina.
one day we will have the debate on whatever you want, the climate crisis and - you are not listening to me very much - the crisis of values and the crisis of principles that we have in the european union and, certainly, in the european countries.
we talk about these issues whenever you want, the climate crisis and the crisis of values, but today we have to deal with an injustice that is taking place in a country, argentina, which is damaging european expectations and investments in the countries of the region.
companies operating on this continent contribute to its growth and must respect environmental principles, but the first respect is to internationally agreed standards.
ypf compromised a country's energy sufficiency by causing a drastic drop in oil and gas production.
on the other hand, we defend the right of peoples to exercise their sovereignty in managing their energy resources, particularly where there is a divergence between public and private interests.
finally, i hope that this debate will provide a meeting point and that this controversy will encourage us to implement sustainable energy models.
all of this serves the objective of promoting sustainable growth and employment.
and the commission is also well aware that even in a 'transitional' period, diesel is essential, even if the 2020 target of reducing emissions to 95 g/km is to be achieved.
- mr president, the committee on agriculture shares the ultimate objective of this directive - to try to guide, from taxation, the composition of our energy mix - but we are faced with a very complex debate full of economic, social and environmental issues, in a context in which it is important to maintain those balances that make us make further progress in the environmental field, yes, but that also do not harm us economically and that do not create greater social crises than those we are already experiencing.
as everyone knows, energy costs are increasingly taking up a very large share of the fixed costs of our farms, at a time when we are also in a debate in which the crises on the commodity markets are combined with the prospect of loss of aid and increased health and environmental requirements which reduce the margins of profitability.
the first is the maintenance of zero-rate deductions in the energy component, now linked to the drafting and implementation of energy efficiency and saving strategies in rural areas; and the incorporation of agriculture into sectors considered to be at risk of carbon leakage in order to also have access to the deductions allowed in the co2 emissions section.
that is to say, a policy which is more environmentally demanding, but which maintains the balance which makes our rural environment viable in a time of change and uncertainty.
(applause)
mr president, the energy sources we use for mobility in europe will change in the coming decades.
this was the meaning of my vote in the vote on the directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity.
the vpa with the central african republic (car) falls somewhat short on both, especially since the car also maintains a redd process (the un programme on reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries); hence the implementation of the vpa needs to be especially carefully monitored.
− even though some amendments did not go through as i would have expected, i voted in favour of this important proposal as it is necessary to update the directive and to protect the environment while fostering growth and creating new, additional jobs.
i am happy to see that we have voted in favour on the first block and, more precisely, on the energy efficiency efforts demanded in return for the more favourable tax treatment to be coordinated by member states for agricultural, horticultural and piscicultural works and forestry.
bearing this in mind, and taking into account the economic turmoil that some member states are facing, i voted in favour of those amendments that protect eu industry and will make it stronger and, on the other hand, those that are in line with efforts to achieve a strong eu internal market while pushing our economy to higher levels of green growth and energy efficiency in accordance with the 2020 strategy.
it is not, the iter project is a flagship project of the european union that is going to give us energy independence.
i think this is a very big mistake and i hope, in any case, that the iter project will remain in good health and that in 20, 30, 40 years we will have sustainable and clean energy.
mrs durant, i am very surprised that a representative of the green group should tell me that we must be down to earth and look at the realities, because part of her political project is precisely to look for new energy sources, new alternative forms of energy production.
this is an alternative way - which you will more or less like - but in any case it can be a solution for european energy independence.
mr president, let us be clear: it is no coincidence that the majority of the victims of climate catastrophes are women.
the proposals made in the kiil-nielsen report are simply common sense in today's world, they are basic needs, they pose a fundamental challenge: 1) to increase the capacity and empowerment of women in decision-making, in all areas; 2) to move from being victims to being actors, is what the report is calling for: to move to invest more in training, protection and preparedness; 3) in a very clear way, to incorporate gender perspectives into policies to combat climate change.
women, as the rapporteur said, are much more affected by climate change.
climate change is also caused by the failure to comply with environmental instruments.
the climate is also changing because of the lack of political support.
the climate is also changing because of the lack of responsibility in the world and in europe.
climate change is made worse by the fact that governments don't clean up their act.
that is why i support this report, because it supports the implementation of these environmental commitments which affect women so much.
because of the 11 000 exotic species that have crossed the borders of the european union, 15% are invasive species that are destroying, for example, the most important palm grove in europe, which is in the city of elche, the red beetle, which is destroying the ebro delta park, where farmers contribute to the ecosystem by growing rice.
in short, if we are to be confident that, after the utter failure we had in 2010, we will have to show a lot of will for 2020, the commission will have to put its batteries on, to heed this report, which is a good report, which is concerned about the future of the next generations and which contains very concrete measures, which only need to be structured, so that the protection of our biodiversity is not a joke, but a very serious issue that this parliament must address as the representative of the citizens of the whole of europe.
the commissioner speaks eloquently of defence and of his commitment to protecting biodiversity.
i come from a country that is very rich in biodiversity, a green country, an agricultural and maritime country, galicia.
unfortunately, the cases of non-compliance with the natura network, both in terms of conservation, the expansion of protected natural areas of species, protected natural habitats, provide, in many cases, an irreversible environmental degradation, fires, prestige and serious situations such as the installation of large-scale aquaculture plants in green marine spaces.
today, with three months to go - as mr leinen has rightly said - this parliament is calling on the commission to tell it that we need a common nexus of community policies, a common environment house, a reference point, as the action programmes are, and that without it we cannot function.
the whole of these recycling and waste policies need to be coordinated - paragraph 32 says it right - if we are to achieve 100% recycling.
this draft amending budget (dab) no 1 for the year 2012 concerns the financing of iter, and incorporates into the 2012 budget the amount of eur 650 million in commitment appropriations onto budget item 08 20 02 euratom – european joint undertaking for iter – fusion for energy (f4e), in accordance with the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council in december 2011. it is thus a purely technical translation of this agreement.
we also wanted parliament to call for a comprehensive and rapid response to the sahel humanitarian crisis as a whole; to call on west african governments to fight against proliferation of arms and drug trafficking by putting balanced and sustainable development at the heart of their development policy, to provide basic public services to the population in general and employment for the youth in particular; and to call on the authorities of mali, west african governments and the tuareg national movement for the liberation of azwad to do their utmost for the immediate release of all hostages.
we are facing an example of blatant neoliberalism, namely state-protected companies that destroy the social and environmental rights of argentine citizens, and two countries that are fighting over control of oil instead of cooperating to deal with the huge global climate crisis.
both sides would do much better to invest massively all the economic, political and diplomatic resources possible in the promotion of clean and renewable energy and in a reduction of dependence on fossil fuels.
the basic problem is therefore to find the energy and economic development model that is to be promoted.
climate change and its impacts are by no means gender neutral.
due to gendered roles, women’s impact on the environment is not the same as men’s, and their access to resources and ways to cope and adapt is severely affected by discrimination in terms of income, access to resources, political power, education and household responsibility.
we therefore need to take women into account at every stage of our climate policies, and in the following aspects: adaptation policies, mitigation policies, financing of these policies and political representation of women.
the proportion of women in climate change negotiations is still unsatisfactory, women account for only 12-15% of heads of delegation and around 30% of the delegates.
links between gender and climate, although they appear clearly in developing countries, also exist within the eu, e.g.
in energy, transport and agricultural sectors.
whilst i am not a fervent feminist, i understand the fact that the worst consequences of climate change will be felt in less developed countries, and that gender inequalities in such countries are a very relevant factor in the equation.
moreover, i feel that it is of the utmost importance to empower women with regard to disaster management, taking into account the terrible cost in human lives that natural disasters related to climate change produce.
during the international year on biodiversity (2010) we heard the most beautiful declarations from political leaders all over the world on the huge importance of biodiversity; about the crucial role it plays for mankind.
but as they were speaking the eu’s strategy to halt the loss of biodiversity in 2010 failed completely.
as they were speaking they failed in all attempts to agree on measures to fight against climate change.
somehow, the warm words on the importance of biodiversity have not translated into strong policy measures.
according to the un study, the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity (teeb, 2010), we lose 3% of worldwide gdp each year due to biodiversity loss.
− the strategy for biodiversity is one of the key policies for green growth that we should push forward as one of our main priorities either in the eu, as voted in this dossier, or – i add – in all of the international agreements that we have to sign.
in fact, without respecting and protecting biodiversity in the eu, there is no future.
the heritage that we will leave to our families is the respect for our environment, and learning about it should be – as mentioned in the dossier – another policy that we ought to pursue without delay.
we highlighted the fact that key decisions with a strong impact on the environment are likely to be taken prior to the adoption of the 7eap (mff, cap, cfp, horizon 2020), and that environment protection needs to be fully integrated.
we called for full implementation of eu environment legislation also in times of austerity.
we also raised issues with regard to sustainable use of land, more action on biodiversity protection, sustainable chemicals policy and action on endocrine disruptors.
responsible economic growth should – in the 21st century – be part of every policy, and not only those related to environment, in order to ensure that our heritage is respected and that the world is protected for our descendants.
that is why the danish presidency is investing so much time and energy in the single market and the digital single market, including in key areas such as telecoms and the information society.
i would like to express our gratitude to the chair of the committee on industry, research and energy; the rapporteur, ms niebler; and the shadow rapportuers for the excellent way in which they have handled these important negotiations.
injecting competition into the roaming markets will mean, for the first time ever, a structural and sustainable way to protect consumers because competition is the best guarantee of long-term low prices.
it is a key moment to make progress in opening up the markets for goods and services and to establish a framework guaranteeing legal certainty for investments and the adoption of environmental, phytosanitary and social standards that benefit citizens on both sides.
as the rapporteur has said, the amendments that have been tabled, the human rights clause, democratisation, sustainability and corporate responsibility are indispensable conditions that any agreement must include, and although we are facing a new generation of trade agreements - which started with morocco - within the framework of bilateral negotiations, it must be recognised that there are certain sensitive aspects - such as agriculture - and that not all eu countries suffer with the same impact from the negative consequences that these trade agreements may produce.
i believe that it also prevents absurd waste like that which has occurred in spain with the airports of castellón and guadalajara.
mr president, i was the alternative rapporteur for my group and i voted in favour of the resolution on piracy in the indian ocean because it proposes fair, feasible and sustainable solutions to tackle this problem.
this amendment proposed in the report strengthens legal certainty and has a significant positive impact on the environment, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
the report does indeed put the focus on more support for regional airports, such as considering them in the ten-t regulation, but not applying the eu’s safety and security or environmental rules.
we (greens/efa) tabled amendments on 2020 targets for co2 emissions, connecting regional airports as much as possible with rail therefore, with the intention of obtaining a modal shift towards rail.
i strongly believe that regional airports should not be tools to enhance public deficits and should be economically sustainable in the mid-term.
in the mediterranean, the sustainability impact assessment (sia) commissioned by dg trade for the euromed fta project has – along with problems of the environmental carrying capacity of the basin – indicated increased social hardships in the short to medium term, which could be detrimental to the democratic aspirations of its people.
this requires combining debt reduction and increased competitiveness with maximum r&d&i drive, especially towards the low-carbon economy and renewable energy.
the financial services industry is therefore called upon to step up its efforts to provide comprehensible, truthful information, with plenty of clear explanations and using straightforward language about the nature of the products and services it offers; the food sector, in relation to advertising for foods high in fat, salt and sugar, by informing children and young people, who are the most sensitive to the advertising of these foods; the transport sector, which often continues to face difficulties when vulnerable people travel; the energy and telecommunications sector, where lack of transparency in some cases causes added difficulty for consumers, for example in the energy sector, in determining the tariff that best suits their needs; and access to justice, where consumers may find it difficult to access existing mechanisms.
given the current difficult economic climate, it is all the more important that smes, which are the principal contributors to our economies, are provided with a climate in which they can flourish and grow.
they complement grant financing and are more sustainable because the money can be recycled and used again in the future.
mr president, honourable members, commissioner, the focus of your interest this morning is the issue of access to finance by smes – and rightly so, given the current economic climate.
i would like to close by emphasising that, while access to finance is, of course, extremely important, smes also need a favourable business environment in which to be able to develop.
in conjunction with this, many member states have taken steps to help smes – for example through the establishment of one-stop shops for people starting up businesses – but we must all remain particularly vigilant so that we continue to provide smes with a proper environment in which to grow, and so that we simplify the business environment and reduce the burden of red tape on all businesses.
the point is that this reallocation, as far as the available resources allow, should be directed mainly to smes, because they are the ones who can create jobs in europe in a sustainable way.
80% of erdf resources in the more developed regions and 50% of erdf resources in the less developed regions are to be used for these priorities, namely innovation in smes, renewable energies, energy efficiency.
i am clear: if we want to stimulate sustainable growth, we must start with our smes and strengthen their competitiveness.
the spanish government has recently rejected one of these measures in a very strong way, namely investment in renewable energy.
it should be remembered that since 2006 bluefin tuna has been subject to successive recovery plans and that changing the rules of the game mid-game, only for the community fleet, would be unfair and discriminatory and would hardly bring any benefit to the sustainability of the resource, as the rest of the fleets could continue to fish.
our group will therefore oppose the unilateral declaration by parliament proposed in amendment no 4.
mr president, i think that most of the content of this report is in line with the view that the exploitation of fishery resources must be regulated so that they can be sustainable.
we believe it is very important that measures be taken immediately so that we can effectively guarantee the sustainability and diversity that enrich our marine environment and, in this sense, tuna as a species that is effectively regulated and that must have controls that allow these maximum catch levels to be respected and in the conditions that arise.
we agree in principle, but i do agree that they are minimal and that they will have to be studied in depth if we are to guarantee the sustainability of bluefin tuna.
if we look at the chapter on sustainable development, it is extremely fragile and not binding.
oil slicks resulting from oil tanker accidents, such as those involving the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, are major environmental disasters with tragic repercussions for the marine fauna and flora.
reflecting a concern for the environment and a willingness to learn from past mistakes, this regulation seeks to reduce the risks of accidental oil pollution in european waters through accelerated phasing-in of double-hull requirements.
if the hull is damaged following a collision or grounding, there is a risk that the cargo tanks will discharge their contents into the sea and cause major pollution.
this ‘double-hull’ design protects the cargo tanks from damage and thus reduces the pollution risk.
it also insists on the use of sustainable fishing methods.
it is true that there are still many areas for ongoing improvement, such as the development of industrial cooperation in the green economy, addressing china’s lower social, environmental and human rights standards, and increasing the flexibility of the yuan, in order not to create artificial trade advantages for china.
and we must be clear: with this report we are saying that enough is enough, that we must learn from our mistakes, that there are no more obstacles and that there is no better way to achieve what we want, sustainable development, than to be more efficient, to use resources better and not to exploit them in the way they are exploited so far.
we therefore ask the presidency and the commissioner, if it is true that we want a european union with sustainable development, to apply the recipes that are being proposed here; to introduce corrective measures to prevent the effects of shortages from escalating into price rises and food crises that are always paid by the same people, the most disadvantaged; to propose reduced rates of vat for secondary materials, because all aid is too little to bring us closer to 100% recycling; to help change the model by shifting the tax burden from labour income to speculative capital income and to those activities which are less sustainable.
because there are states that, by cutting research, renewable energy, health and health - as my country, spain, does - what they do is to stop agenda 2020. commissioner: you can ask for more!
in the area of waste, i welcome the objective of reducing our waste production and treating it better, because that means articulating concrete, viable and realistic management plans, focused on better reusing recyclable materials and better disposing of unusable materials.
i welcome the commission communication entitled ‘towards a job-rich recovery’ and urge heads of state or government in the eu to present as soon as possible a european investment plan boosting inclusive, sustainable and job-rich growth.
we have just seen this in cohesion policy, in fisheries policy, in agricultural policy, in environmental policy.
and in this parliament, where my colleague antonio massip and my other socialist colleagues have spoken so many times about the importance of coal as a strategic energy resource for europe, we find that coal is in danger.
we must rescue spanish coal mining from the brutal cuts that are leading to its demise; we must rescue the 30 000 families who live directly or indirectly on coal; we must rescue the european union's investments in co2 capture technologies that can turn coal into green energy; we must rescue productive activity in places where labour and economic alternatives are not easy; and, above all, we must rescue coal, which is the origin of this european union, from the grip of a right-wing government, without any social sensitivity, which has no problem negotiating the rescue of the financial sector and abandons a productive sector such as coal to its fate.
mr president, i would like to express my solidarity with the workers in the mining sector in asturias, león and aragon in spain, who are struggling to maintain the activity of thousands of workers and their families and of entire regions which owe their personality, attractiveness and development precisely to their historical dedication to providing coal and energy to the rest of society.
and this, in addition to the rejection and indifference of the european union to coal, which we know is not true, because precisely tomorrow we will approve the report by mrs herczog, in which diversification is precisely defended as a guarantee of the european union's energy independence and leadership in the global market.
it does so by introducing a mandate with a roadmap to eurobonds, the establishment of a sustainable growth instrument for the euro area including an increase in the eib's capital and project bonds and the creation of a redemption fund to be applied without discrimination.
i think the mandate should also incorporate 'because if we want sustainable fiscal discipline we have to talk about quality of spending' and identify the investments needed to deliver on strategy 2020. it is also important to note that these reports have strengthened the effects of the economic policies of one member state on others and the protection of tax revenues, have introduced the social clause and take into account the role of the partners and civil society.
i think that you share the sense of urgency and determination to pursue our joint strategy for sustainable growth and job creation.
these two draft regulations are indeed very important parts of that strategy in order to address macroeconomic imbalances pre-emptively and in order to restore the sustainability of public finances, which is a necessary condition for sustainable growth and employment.
with this thorough restructuring of the banking sector in spain, together with the ongoing determined implementation of structural reforms and fiscal consolidation, spain can gradually regain confidence and create the conditions for a return to sustainable growth and job creation.
this is indeed crucial for returning to recovery and for sustainable growth and job creation which, of course, is our ultimate objective.
it is simply absolutely essential that we see the consolidation of our budgets and sustainable public budgets as a prerequisite for growth, and not as a brake on growth.
it also indicates that the union shall attempt to develop relations and create associations with third countries, supporting sustainable development at the economic, social and environmental levels of the developing countries, with the fundamental aim of eradicating poverty.
the eu development cooperation policy, and especially coherence between union policies, plays a fundamental role in achieving the millennium development goals and in the fulfilment of international commitments to human rights, food security and environmental sustainability.
− whereas information and communication technologies (icts) in the internet environment are an important part of our lives, users need to have confidence in the security of the system, as regards privacy of data and intellectual property rights.
a general problem is that the report fails to acknowledge the need for the eu to take a different approach to energy security.
it is instead enforcing the somewhat mistaken point of view that the eu (now and in the future) is a heavyweight on the international energy market, and that the solution to increasing concerns regarding security of supply should be handled by securing fossil imports through diversification of sources and routes via the expansion of import infrastructure and a convergence towards more eu-coordinated contract negotiations.
in addition, the suggestion that more room and resources should be given to renewables, energy efficiency, smart grids and energy poverty in the energy community treaty secretariat was rejected in the vote.
i abstained on this report because, although i am not opposed to financial aid to the countries bordering the mediterranean, i am opposed to the transformation of these countries into market economies, without taking account, moreover, of the democratic deficits and the social and environmental impact of projects financed by the ebrd, since they are aimed at promoting market liberalism.
the greens are calling for the eu budgets to have their own financing line with elements such as financial transaction, carbon and mobile phone charges, which would increase own resources by 40 or 50 billion euro and thus enable policies for growth and job creation to be implemented.
the new structure of eu trade and investment relations contained in the agreement neither guarantees nor deepens the necessary social and environmental protection, nor is it geared towards achieving a model of sustainable development and promoting the labour rights of colombian workers.
backed by a recent study done on behalf of german trade unions (dgb) by the hans böckler foundation and the wsi institute (may 2012), the greens criticise the fact that the sustainable development chapter of the fta is less stringent than its homologue in the eu-korea fta.
fulfilment of labour and environmental conventions is made dependent on the availability of financial resources in the country!
the sustainable development chapter is excluded from the dispute settlement mechanism in the fta.
civil society can be consulted on the contents of the sustainable development chapter (soft law), but not on the rest of the fta (hard law).
we believe that building a democratic society requires above all strong political will and the ambitious vision of political leaders, governments as well as the opposition, aiming at building political institutions to guarantee the human, social, economic and environmental rights of the population.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on foods for infants and young children and food for special medical purposes (com (2011) 0353 - c7-0169/2011 - 2011/0156 (cod)) (a7-0059/2012).
mr president, the dairy sector is in a serious crisis, and the only way to guarantee minimum prices that cover production costs and to maintain a sustainable dairy farm structure is through public intervention.
i am transmitting the criticisms of the galician dairy sector in the proposal to end the milk quota system in 2015. we call on the member states and the european commission to maintain production regulation that responds to the challenges of maintaining employment and wealth as well as territorial and demographic and environmental balance to ensure milk production that guarantees the quality of products to consumers.
there are many key points in the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
for instance, it urges the heads of state or government of the eu to commit to a ‘european investment pact’ before the end of 2012. it states that such a pact could be an important element in shifting the one-sided fiscal austerity approach towards a more balanced one, and could represent a new impetus to push europe out of the crisis if tangible commitments at national and european level are included on investment to create sustainable growth and jobs in key sectors such as resource efficiency and management, renewables, energy efficiency or recycling/reusing.
the text points to the energy efficiency directive as a concrete example of eu legislation which could create up to 2 million new jobs.
i also thank you for calling on the commission to come forward with a directive on water scarcity, drought and adaptation to climate change.
but six months later, while acknowledging the progress made in energy and in the response to the crisis, the balance sheet cannot be satisfactory because it has been overshadowed by the decision taken in the council of ministers of justice and home affairs to re-governmentalise the schengen evaluation mechanism.
launched in 2009, the baltic sea macro-region brings together a coherent set of territories that want to cooperate in order to find better solutions to the economic and environmental problems facing them.
this cooperation has taken the form of a ‘macro-regional strategy’, designed to coordinate the existing extensive sectoral cooperation and based on four pillars — environment, prosperity, accessibility and security — and an action plan setting out 15 priority areas and 80 flagship projects.
the report also, inter alia: reiterates need to adapt internal market rules to the distinctive characteristics of the water sector; acknowledges that the wfd is a solid and ambitious legislative base, but that implementation needs to be improved significantly; recognises that specific gaps need to be filled by adapting existing legislation and by new legislation to address the impact of specific sectors and activities; calls for legislation on water shortages, droughts and adapting to climate change; and urges the commission to take determined action to bring member states’ infringements to an end.
no, it is not a solution, because there are two issues to be addressed; it is not a legal question but two political issues: one, the determination of the fight against counterfeiting and piracy; and the other, a new legislative framework for the digital environment, which we have asked the socialist group to do repeatedly, and we are asking it again.
fortunately, it seems that the council is beginning to turn around and we are not only talking about budgetary discipline, which is needed, but also about promoting sustainable growth.
these files are in the council and i hope that you will put them into practice with all the energy and commitment that you have expressed to us today.
our focus will clearly remain on fostering a job-rich and sustainable economic recovery based on the europe 2020 strategy.
at the same time, we should maintain momentum in the continuous process of deepening the single market by creating conditions for thriving network industries and services; completing the digital agenda; ensuring sustainability and resource efficiency; delivering a modern industrial policy; empowering people through skills and education; protecting citizens’ rights; and promoting a strong europe that makes its positive mark on the world.
i think that we would all agree with what mr szájer said, and we should not leave our next generation with debts, but with sustainable jobs.
we will do it as was suggested by our colleague from the green party: by a holistic approach aimed at sustainable development.
the backbone and the links of this social body we call europe are its transport networks and its energy infrastructure.
already in the discussions of the special committee on the political challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013 (sure) held last year, the european parliament agreed on the need to introduce these new financial instruments to compensate for the possible insufficiency of the traditional budget.
the necessary investments in transport, energy and telecommunications must be financed.
but it is also a key element in ensuring compliance with the fisheries conservation and management measures that have been adopted, the basic aim of which is to bring fish stocks back to sustainable levels of exploitation.
i think that you will agree with me that without effective control of fishing activities, it is absolutely impossible to combat illegal fishing and very difficult to contribute to sustainability, which is the cornerstone of our common fisheries policy and the central axis of the reform of it that we are currently debating in this parliament.
many have criticised the summit but in fact the protection of high-seas biodiversity is an area in which the need for much more progress was universally recognised.
the eu shows the same level of ambition in relation to multilateral environmental agreements, including cites, which regulates international trade in endangered species and currently covers 30 000 plant and animal species, among them approximately 100 aquatic species.
cites is widely seen as one of the most effective international agreements in the field of the environment, due notably to its effective compliance mechanisms and its universal coverage.
this is vital not only for marine biodiversity but also for fishing operators who depend on healthy stocks for the future of their economic activities.
because neither the commissioner for the environment nor the commissioner for maritime affairs and fisheries has ever come to raise this issue, when they know that in this parliament the fight against iuu fishing is an absolute priority for us.
conventions deposited with the international maritime organisation to improve maritime safety and environmental protection, commitments deriving from the maritime labour convention adopted by the international labour organisation, agreements adopted within the fao on the conservation of resources and the implementation of the international plan of action against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing are ineffective if flag member states fail to comply with their obligations and exercise the jurisdiction and control to which they are bound.
the union should continue to intensify maximum cooperation between flag and chartering states to ensure control, monitoring, surveillance and enforcement in order to preserve our marine ecosystem and the sustainability of fisheries.
however, we must work towards a legal framework that will tackle illegal fishing and the transport of endangered species, thus complying with agenda 2020, ensuring the sustainability of fisheries and protecting the marine environment.
it did not deem it necessary to fine-tune the criteria for selection of projects to be financed, as these have already been fixed in sufficient detail (eu economic policy objectives, criteria presented in the basic ten and cip acts, eu policy guidelines, eib standard eligibility and environmental criteria, credit risk policies, etc).
however, several references to green sustainability criteria were introduced into the report following green/efa amendments to that effect.
we, the greens/efa, focused on three main points and introduced amendments accordingly: the green sustainability of the projects to be financed; the issue of correct remuneration of the eu actors issuing risk guarantees; and the participation of these actors in the decision-making process concerning the design and implementation of the projects.
in view of this situation, i suggest that the commission should immediately renegotiate the fishing conditions in order to reach a satisfactory and sustainable agreement and so that the european parliament can conclude and adopt the new protocol in the future.
it is a fact that the absence of the gender perspective from environmental policies increases gender inequality.
it is also a fact that the transition to a low carbon economy will create a huge demand for skilled workers, so this is also an opportunity to create jobs and to create new opportunities.
we would be faced with the paradox that an environmental problem in some countries of the union is being solved by creating a first-rate economic problem in the mediterranean, which does not have that environmental problem, but which has other kinds of environmental problems whose costs are not intended to be imposed on the rest of the countries.
it was worth it, because energy efficiency and energy saving are requirements of any energy policy worthy of the name.
we should welcome important measures such as the requirement to renovate public buildings, the imposition of a percentage of accumulated energy savings on energy companies, and the mandatory audits imposed on large private companies.
my friend turmes, we must spare no effort to save energy.
mr president, commissioner, we are faced with one of the most important legislative contributions to the energy field of this legislature.
there are few things in the end that are as important as this energy efficiency directive.
this directive has three main objectives: to help reduce the energy island status of the european union, to help make the climate change objectives a reality, and also to contribute to the development of an energy efficiency market that will enable greater economic growth through the appropriate technologies.
but i would like to stress one thing, because i think it is the great contribution that parliament is making to this piece of legislation, to this directive, namely flexibility: flexibility for the 1.5% targets on savings for energy distributors and traders, or the 3% target for renovation of buildings; the flexibility that member states have to apply alternative measures.
secondly, because it will help to combat energy poverty in many households.
thirdly, because it will save on energy imports.
the advantage is that there is unanimous agreement in this house on the benefits of boosting energy efficiency, as the most effective, most direct, cheapest method to achieve security of supply, competitiveness, and to fight climate change.
the integrity and transparency of energy markets, can also be implemented in the coming years.
energy efficiency is also a means of reducing energy costs in the long term.
this means that member states have the possibility of reducing the cost of energy for their citizens by reducing taxes.
energy is as much a part of the european basket as housing, mobility or food.
the member states are therefore obliged to review their energy costs every year and to make appropriate adjustments to their social benefits for the benefit of their citizens in need.
i would like to answer your question in concrete terms by saying that i would very much welcome further approximation and harmonization of energy taxes.
but i would like to say again that i would support harmonizing energy taxes.
the connecting europe facility, with 9.1 billion over seven years for the energy sector, is our instrument for this.
i agree with you that most of the infrastructure needs to be financed by the market and by the grid operators and by energy prices.
the connecting europe facility is already widely accepted in the council in the energy sector.
- mr president, you have read our communication on renewable energies from the spring of this year.
we believe that the national support schemes for the establishment of renewable energy, namely wind and solar power, were right.
the second problem is that some member states have unfortunately retroactively or abruptly ended their support laws for the development of renewable energy.
in the present economic circumstances, the trigger for investment should not be merely market signals but the real needs of an integrated energy system.
− i voted in favour of this report because i fully support the establishment of a common framework of measures for the promotion of energy efficiency within the eu in order to ensure the achievement of the union's primary energy efficiency target of 20% savings by 2020 and to pave the way for further energy efficiency improvements beyond that date.
- i have supported the adoption of this report on energy efficiency because i believe that efforts to achieve more efficient energy systems must be stepped up, since, in addition to the orientation of energy policy towards renewable sources of production, energy efficiency is another way of increasing security of supply and reducing co2 emissions.
this resolution will be a positive step towards achieving the already insufficient target of a 20% reduction in energy consumption in the member states of the european union.
i have therefore supported this report, even though i believe that the pursuit of energy efficiency must go hand in hand with other energy measures, such as a radical change in energy production, including the phasing out of all nuclear power stations.
− this essential legislation is not only crucial for achieving our energy security and climate goals, it will also give a real boost to the economy and create jobs.
crucially, it will reduce the sizeable and growing cost of our dependence on energy imports – eur 488 billion in 2011 or 3.9% of eu gdp – which is particularly stark in crisis-hit countries.
this includes mobilising european funds to support energy efficiency and savings, as well as creating training programmes – notably with a youth focus – with a view to creating employment in the sector and tackling unemployment.
− energy efficiency is one of the most affordable ways to increase our energy security.
secondly, this directive will help to combat the energy poverty that many households are currently facing.
thirdly, it will save on energy imports and therefore reduce our dependence on external energy at the same time.
finally, it is worth noting that it will act as an important stimulus to research and innovation in efficiency issues and will make our companies more competitive in a context where there is a growing global competition for increasingly scarce energy resources.
i therefore voted in favour of a directive which could have gone further in the exemplary role of public administrations by requiring them to make a greater commitment to increasing the energy efficiency of their buildings.
as my colleague and rapporteur, mr turmes, has said, this essential legislation is not only crucial to achieving our energy security and climate goals, it will also give a real boost to the economy and create jobs.
crucially, it will reduce the sizeable and growing cost of our dependence on energy imports - eur 488 billion in 2011 or 3.9 % of eu gdp - which is particularly stark in crisis-hit countries.
this includes mobilising european union funds – such as the structural funds, project bonds and european investment bank funds – to support energy efficiency and savings, as well as creating training programmes – notably with a youth focus – with a view to creating employment in the sector and tackling unemployment.
in addition, four more amendments were submitted that were taken aboard by the rapporteur and included, apart from the one regarding climate change that was not adopted; climate change will become the biggest driver for population displacement in the coming years, due to sudden or gradual alterations in the natural environment related to sea-level rise, extreme weather events, and drought and water scarcity; therefore our group expressed concern with the growing link between climate change and conflict, while emphasising the need to address the issue of climate refugees in the context of eu relocation and resettlement schemes as well.
without further measures, the ship based sulphur emissions would exceed all land based pollution by 2020, with significant health impacts as well as contribution to acidification.
emissions from international ship traffic were responsible for approximately 50 000 premature deaths in europe in 2000 and external costs related to human health corresponding to 7% of the total health costs in europe .
- i support this report because it equates the green economy with a sustainable economy where it includes equality between men and women.
it is necessary to establish a balanced participation in political life and in the ecological economy so that women's interests have the same weight as men's interests.
− a green economy must be a sustainable, social and ecological economy, as social sustainability includes a social order that is imbued with social and gender equality, regardless of gender, ethnicity, colour, sexual orientation, disability or political opinion.
it is clear that environmental policies have a direct impact on people's health and socioeconomic status and that gender inequality, combined with a lack of sensitivity to the needs and economic and social disparity of women, often leads to women suffering disproportionately from environmental degradation and inadequate policies in this area.
this is the case in my country, galicia, where women who work in agriculture and fisheries, in the seafood industry, suffer the consequences of a lack of environmental protection.
this report equates the green economy with a sustainable economy, which in turn includes both a socially and ecologically sustainable economy.
a green or sustainable economy is a system which preserves the ecosystem’s productive capacity (the planet’s tolerance) while creating a society where the basic human needs of all are met.
the green economy means that the needs of the planet and of humans receive the highest priority and that the goal is to create sustainable societies that are energy efficient and healthy, and in which all people, regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, colour, sexual orientation, disability or beliefs, may participate.
starting with heading 1 (sustainable growth), the council considers that this heading should be one of the top priorities in the 2013 budget.
the council attaches particular importance to the implementation of the various programmes and actions under this heading which play a key role in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and will help deliver sustainable economic recovery.
this being so, it means that if a country fails in its international obligations regarding fisheries management, the eu can threaten an import ban on any fishery product coming from that country that swims in the same ecosystem.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate everyone, the rapporteur and the members of parliament, who have contributed to the document being enriched by a fundamental objective which we all share: the sustainability of fisheries and fishery resources, and at the same time the rights of citizens to consume a fishery product of the highest quality, with the highest guarantees, knowing that there are conflicting interests.
today we are discussing good reports which very well define the efforts of this parliament to achieve sustainable fishing by preserving fishery resources or which attempt to provide an organization of markets in which the consumer is not only protected but also well informed.
- i voted in favour because this regulation will help to achieve the objective of cooperation between states to achieve sustainable fishing, with the instrument designed to punish those who overexploit stocks and do not contribute to their maintenance.
in its preparation, the com has concluded that the market has not sufficiently contributed to sustainable production; many eu fisheries are not exploited in a sustainable way and there are few market mechanisms to discourage unsustainable practices and to provide market premiums for sustainable ones.
i share the objectives of the reform of the cmo: to improve market incentives for sustainable production practices, to improve the market position of community production, to help producers respond to structural changes and market fluctuations, to consolidate the market potential of eu products and to improve governance.
the final report on the cmo takes up a good part of my amendments and contains progress on the sustainability of resources, the competitiveness of industry and the improvement of consumer information.
equally positive is language about the need to punish member states which fail in their obligations to enforce the rules of the common fisheries policy, as well as mention of our environmental and social criteria for the right to fish.
we therefore need to know the real fishing capacity and effort in europe, and fish stocks must be maintained at levels close to those which can generate the maximum sustainable yield, and this must be implemented regionally and with the necessary appropriations from the european fisheries fund for the renewal and modernisation of fleets in the restructuring which will entail the implementation of the measures to be adopted in the cfp.
let us consider very carefully whether it would not be better not to close the ones that are still open, which provide energy and social security.
i would say that it is thanks to that effort and determination that we have today a mechanism which, for the first time, is going to allow an exchange of information and communication between the member states and the european commission in relation to intergovernmental agreements on energy which are being carried out in those member states.
i believe that this is to promote permanent knowledge of the supply map or of the energy supply networks and is therefore very positive for the better management of the energy supply in the european union.
with this regulation, if i had to use a simile, i would say that we are paving the way for the development of the internal energy market to proceed more rapidly.
if we were to waste that opportunity today and not start paving the way, as some political groups in this house are claiming, we would simply be missing a golden opportunity.
beyond pure trade flows, let me remind you that these agreements will also improve far-reaching provisions guaranteeing the protection of human rights as well as commitments on labour rights and environmental protection and will foster the promotion of sustainable development.
as you know, these issues are already covered by the agreements, and in its june 2012 resolution, parliament already clearly expressed the political line to follow and the need for colombia and peru to present a roadmap on human labour and environmental rights.
but it is also necessary where the agreement is to be applied - in central america, colombia and peru - because trade is fundamental to development and development means labour rights, sustainability and benefits for the producer.
− the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between europe and brazil is a step forward in the exchange of knowledge between our peoples, for mutual benefit, with equity and to facilitate the participation of research entities by cooperating in the exchange of scientists, experts and technicians, legislative exchange on research and sharing experiences in science and technology such as biotechnology, ict, bioinformatics, space, green technologies, health and medicine, human sciences, sustainability of natural resources and environment.
the agreement does not concern the framework programme of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for nuclear research but the fp7.
with regard to sustainability, the motion for a resolution calls for vigorous action to safeguard the ecological balance and biodiversity of the atlantic and reduce the carbon footprint in that area; the establishment of specific recommendations concerning vessels, with a view to promoting the inclusion of propulsion systems with low carbon emissions; the promotion of socially, economically and environmentally sustainable forms of tourism.
furthermore, a light depositary regime (notary safeguards) was included, together with a recital on orienting investments towards the ecological transformation of the economy.
greens followed the rapporteur in his call for a closer look not only at economic implications of the foreseen trade liberalisation but also the implementation of environmental and social aspects.
though dg trade was not happy with a good number of the amendments proposed (39 in the international trade committee, plus the agriculture committee opinion), which they considered as outside their realm of competence (such as social and environmental data!!
greens followed the rapporteur in his call for a closer look not only at economic implications of the foreseen trade liberalisation but also the implementation of environmental and social aspects.
though dg trade was not happy with a good number of the amendments proposed (45 in the international trade committee, plus the agriculture committee opinion), which they considered as outside their realm of competence (such as social and environmental data!!
i am very glad that mr goerens’s report looks positively on the movement towards inclusive and sustainable growth, because we can also see what our partners are looking for.
they would like fast, immediate growth, and gdp growth of two figures, and if possible three figures, while not always understanding that gdp growth figures do not always result in satisfaction for the funded nation and that the elements of social inclusion and social protection are very important, and that the sustainability issue is also crucial.
does it help a country to have high growth, only to find it is devastating the environment?
one is access to sustainable energy.
we know that this is crucial not only in the fight against climate change, but also for economic growth.
the house is therefore committed to policies that promote sustainable development, the redistribution of wealth and social justice, and finance that meets global challenges.
the damage to the environment, the island's economy and the living conditions of the population, estimated at almost €60 million, is very difficult to repair.
it will be impossible to finance existing european policies, the new competences that the member states unanimously transferred to the union with the lisbon treaty, and the commitments made by all european institutions and heads of state and government in the europe 2020 strategy and the growth pact, in particular in the fields of climate, development aid, research, employment and the fight against poverty.
the fight against global warming, economic recovery and social cohesion in europe cannot go hand in hand without securing the necessary financial means for the european budget.
today's vote sets out the ep's red lines for the forthcoming negotiations on the future eu budget for 2014-20. meps have made clear that they want an eu budget that plays a central role in stimulating economic recovery in europe and in the sustainable transformation of our economy.
in order to emerge from the economic crisis, we should be investing more in research, education, green technologies and the sustainable transformation of our energy sector.
2013 will indeed be a decisive year in turning europe round to face up to the crisis and to pursue the path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the third is building fully integrated networks in telecoms, energy and transport as a prerequisite for competitiveness, jobs and growth.
if stability is the basis for sustainable growth and jobs, competitiveness and confidence are the engines.
modernising infrastructure in ict, energy and transport is critical to providing this certainty.
so too is a fresh look at european air and waste legislation.
this is, in particular, why we need a framework for climate and energy policy to 2030. to build the future, europe must build on its youth.
if the experience we have had teaches us anything, it is that monetary union, without economic and social union, is not sustainable.
- i voted in favour of this report on fisheries, since the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources through the common fisheries policy is essential.
the european union and the republic of moldova aim to assure the mutual protection of geographical indications (gis) in order to improve bilateral trade conditions and promote quality in the food chain, while adding value for sustainable rural development.
it emphasises in particular the need to make progress regarding the following aspects: the mobility of qualified labour makes it necessary to progress towards a modern framework for recognising professional qualifications; alternative dispute resolution and online dispute resolution schemes are needed in particular to reinforce citizens' confidence in the digital market; the choice of energy suppliers by consumers must be enhanced; and the lack of information for citizens and businesses and among public authorities must be addressed by instruments such as the 'your europe' portal and the internal market information system and through a better involvement of local and regional authorities.
night flight bans or incentives to buy small cars (though key cars have no explicit ecological features) should not be threatened through trade agreements.
i therefore voted in favour, hoping that the recommendations made on a number of issues (migration, security, climate change, agricultural and fisheries policies, etc.)
regarding the role of programme countries in the european semester, the economic adjustment programmes for those member states are aimed at ensuring a return to macroeconomic and financial stability and fiscal sustainability.
these are the preconditions for sustainable growth and job creation, which are the ultimate objectives of the programmes and of europe 2020. the objectives of the adjustment programmes are therefore aligned with those of europe 2020. this is also reflected in the fact that the programmes are not all about public finances.
the reforms pursued under the programmes thus span a wide range of areas to ensure that the countries concerned can realise soon smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and employment creation.
there are three main reasons why innovative financial instruments are an essential tool to help return to a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth: first, since the mid-1990s, public investment has been steadily declining in the european union, and this trend has been exacerbated by the outbreak of the financial crisis in 2008. secondly, because project promoters and smes are facing an increasingly restrictive market and lack access to credit and capital markets.
we need to be able to mobilise these savings to finance medium and long-term projects that generate sustainable development in the european union.
in this report i therefore ask the commission to work on proposals which can link such savings to these investment needs, and i also ask it to work on a legal and regulatory environment which is conducive to their development, particularly as regards the rules on long-term investments in the framework of the basel iii and solvency ii prudential rules.
i will try to respond to four major topics which were raised: management and financing, environment and transport, transparency, democratic scrutiny and the treatment of youth, and, of course, reporting and implementation.
allow me to continue to the questions raised by mr matula, mr tabajdi and mr toia concerning the management of financing and environment.
concerning the environmental and transport, the key issue is always how to balance environmental aspects and navigational needs when it comes to such important waterways as the danube.
it is also important to involve the public in the discussions and find out how citizens would like to reconcile the environmental aspects and also navigational needs in their regions.
but we are deeply concerned at the damage that the climate of intimidation and violence is doing to pakistan’s development.
it will continue to call on the authorities to create an environment conducive to free and fair elections where the voter, the candidate and the commentator can exert their basic political rights.
energy star is a programme established by the us environmental protection agency (epa) to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment.
in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
the agreement, which was renewed in 2006 for a second 5-year period, provides for the setting up of the energy star programme in the eu.
before the expiry of the agreement in december 2011, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a new agreement continuing the energy star programme for a third period of five years.
- i voted in favour of this initiative because it is necessary to take measures to put an end to speculation affecting food and energy prices, which is being caused by a crisis unknown up to now.
mr president, i am not surprised that the committee on industry, research and energy unanimously adopted an oral question with debate on this subject, because the question of the industrialization of europe, or even the reindustrialization of certain areas where this activity has been abandoned, is key to the future of the union, to its progress and to innovation.
- i agree with you, mr cofferati, and i am working closely with commissioner oettinger on energy policy, because we realise that you cannot have a good industrial policy without a good energy policy.
we are in favour of a single energy market which should bring down costs, we realise that.
so a good energy policy becomes as crucial as a good infrastructure policy.
our document actually proposes a third industrial revolution, an industrial revolution that goes in the direction of energy saving, of the enhancement of the green economy, with the aim of arriving at a green economy through a greener economy.
i would say that our whole industrial policy is an industrial policy which has as its primary objective the fight against climate change: i have not had the opportunity to speak at length - also because of the limited time available - but if you read our document carefully, you will certainly find a positive answer to the issues you have raised.
i think i can therefore avoid your concerns by saying that our industrial policy model is not an outdated model, 19th or 20th century, but a modern, competitive industrial policy model, which is certainly strongly committed to the fight against climate change.
instead, we need to invest more in industrial policy - i repeat - mainly focusing on research and innovation, and perhaps helping consumers to buy the most modern, environmentally friendly products that have the most impact on the fight against climate change.
this is good news, given the need for europe to have a competitive industrial sector that is capable of creating growth, sustainability and jobs, and in this respect you, commissioner andor, have a lot to do and a lot to say.
on 27 october 2011, the commission published a proposal for a council decision to approve the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed and its subsoil (the ‘offshore protocol’).
adopted on 14 october 1994, the offshore protocol is one of the protocols to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, commonly known as the ‘barcelona convention’, signed in 1976 and amended in 1995. the european union and all eu mediterranean coastal member states are contracting parties to the barcelona convention, together with 14 other mediterranean countries.
), to have access to sufficient and sustainable financing.
however, we consider that it is now time to define more clearly a promotion policy to stimulate and reward the production of specific products included in quality schemes, and farming practices which produce fewer co2 emissions, protect biodiversity and are better suited to maintaining the quality of soils and water supplies.
with this proposal the european commission aims to simplify the current legal framework and to establish new administrative and technical requirements, for example on environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance.
- i voted in favour, but i would have liked to see the request i have been making since the beginning of the legislature to control noise pollution from the so-called 'free-range' motorcycles taken into account.
the objective of this proposal is to lay down harmonised rules on the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) with a view to ensuring the functioning of the internal market while at the same time providing for a high level of road and occupational safety and environmental protection.
madam president, it is worth asking whether we can say that shale gas will bring us wealth and well-being, but i ask: are you in a position to say that the extraction of shale gas will not have serious repercussions on the environment or on people's health?
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating two reports today: one from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the other from the committee on industry, research and energy.
the aim of these two reports is, among other things, to convey to the commission parliament's views on shale gas so that the commission can then - as the environment commissioner, mr potočnik, has said - present a report on a package of measures relating to this energy source which will allow for harmonized action in the european union.
i think that both rapporteurs - one from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the other from the committee on industry, research and energy - have put their views very reasonably.
i ask them who can name, say, speak of a single source of energy that does not carry its risks and its opportunities to develop the benefit it contains.
if mankind had rejected every advance, every encounter, every discovery of the possibility of developing an energy source solely because of the risks involved, we would never have advanced.
we must insist much more that the technology is the most appropriate, that research is invested and that this new energy source can be developed with all the guarantees, doing so with moderation and without emotion.
the commissioner for the environment spoke of uncertainty - and it is true - about the extraction of shale gas.
the doubts of the scientific community and the contradictions within the european union on technical safety and its possible risks and dangers to the environment and health suggest adopting a position as consensual as possible, and with the participation of all the institutions, organizations and citizens concerned.
we therefore ask the commission to establish a moratorium in principle until there is sufficient scientific and environmental assurance and the application of the precautionary principle.
we need to know that we are not facing a threat, as the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy said.
and please, we are calling for the unification of the european union's legislative criteria on the states and regions, which are the ones who grant the permits and can sometimes produce a significant deterioration of the environment.
mr president, the sustainability of shale gas is not yet proven and involves many risks.
so this parliament must support the moratorium while the climate, environmental and health impacts remain unknown, because there are not enough guarantees yet.
it is a terrible news for the future of the common agricultural policy, which is at the heart and origin of the european project and which has an economic, a social and an ecological dimension, but which clearly states that without money and without resources not only is there no common agricultural policy, but there can be no reform of the common policy either.
it is bad news and a blow to the connecting europe facility, to the transeuropean transport, energy and telecommunications networks.
i know it is only by working together that we will deliver a good and sustainable budget for the union.
madam president, we wanted to support a very clear idea with our vote: no exploitation, no exploration, no technique, call it fracking or whatever you want, if it does not guarantee compliance with environmental regulations, and if it does not respect the rigorous standards for the protection of environmental goods.
europe needs alternative energy sources, but it is also committed to a model of sustainable development.
the unconventional gas reserves are an opportunity today - it is true - but europe must lead the way in research and the development of technologies to exploit this resource without endangering the environment, until the known technology is surpassed: neither exploration nor exploitation.
these interests of european producers clash with the political position of my group in this parliament which calls for the eu to implement a proactive environmental policy which moves towards reducing the import of raw materials in order to reduce the ecological footprint that our consumption system produces.
these interests of european producers clash with the political position of my group in this parliament which calls for the eu to implement a proactive environmental policy which moves towards reducing the import of raw materials in order to reduce the ecological footprint that our consumption system produces.
- i voted against the report because the exploitation of shale gas poses a major threat to the environment, as it involves the pollution of groundwater.
the moratorium is essential to ensure the health of the waters and to avoid their pollution, as well as to avoid documented side effects such as the possibility of causing earthquakes due to severe soil disturbances.
the amendment proposing such a moratorium has been rejected by a majority of the house, allowing this type of exploitation to enter the european union with the serious environmental consequences it will entail.
the report, inter alia, calls for thorough analysis of eu regulatory framework, and com to come forward with legislative proposals; urges member states to be cautious in going further with shale gas until the completion of the ongoing regulatory analysis and to implement all existing regulations effectively; obligatory baseline monitoring as well as com guidance on baseline water monitoring, criteria for assessing impact on groundwater in different geological formations, as well as cumulative impacts; full polluter pays, sufficient financial guarantees for environmental and civil liability of any damage; ban in sensitive areas (drinking water protection areas and coal mining areas).
on the negative side, language on gas as back-up and enhancing competitiveness, and that as substitute for coal and oil in the short-to-medium term could help to reduce ghg emissions ‘depending on their lifecycle’ was adopted.
- i voted against this report because it authorizes the exploitation of shale gas in europe to meet energy demand.
this extractive method produces significant harmful effects on the environment: pollution of groundwater, emission of toxic gases, or even the production of earthquakes.
the authorization of this extractive method means, once again, that the european environment is being subordinated to the commercial interests of the large energy companies.
the energy future of europe necessarily requires a policy which gives priority to the environmental sustainability of supply, which is why progress in renewable energy is necessary and not the expansion of non-renewable energy resources which are mere temporary patches with disastrous effects on the environment.
studies commissioned by the european commission have clearly demonstrated the harmful impact of hydraulic fracturing: the risk of pollution of surface water and groundwater, depletion of water resources, devastating ground seepage, air pollution, etc.
the shortcomings in the legislation have been well identified: inadequate adaptation of the water framework directive, effluent management to be integrated into the mining waste directive, integration of hydraulic fracturing into the environmental impact assessment directive, etc.
finally, let us not forget that this debate also concerns greenhouse gases, and that the exploitation of shale gas is likely to exacerbate climate change which is already taking place.
the energy transition can't wait.
- i voted with difficulty and with some reservations due to the complexity and novelty of the matter, convinced that unconventional gas could have a role to play in the future eu energy mix, provided it is subject to a full assessment of its potential benefits and risks.
i would stress that any support for the exploitation of unconventional gas sources must take into account legal issues, life cycle assessment, environmental impact and economic viability.
according to both petitioners (mainly property owners) and main environmental ngos, their concerns have not been taken into consideration – besides a process with minimal effective public participation – so they are not happy with it.
the law, which makes unveiled reference to the need to foster economic activity whenever possible (therefore leaving rather aside the primary objective of environmental protection), will be adopted as the pp has absolute majority, but we have the opportunity to send a timely signal from the ep if our amendments are adopted in the report.
there is one area, madam commissioner, where it has been shown that the possibility of reducing emissions is certain - we are seeing that it has a positive impact on growth, competitiveness and therefore on job creation - and where europe is a technological leader and where europe is developing a large number of actions with specific objectives: this is the area of energy efficiency.
i believe that doha, as was the last cop in durban, represents a great opportunity for europe - the european union - to lead the development of an energy efficiency roadmap, with objectives that can be of different nature, with concerted actions that are agreed, with deadlines, etc.
this is really something that needs to be structured and articulated in a clear way and the european union has there, like no one else, an indisputable chance to lead a roadmap for energy efficiency.
personally i hope that what president obama said last week at his first press conference after having been re-elected president, when he admitted – and he used the word ‘admit’ – that the us had not been doing enough on climate, means he will now change that.
here i would refer to this month’s ecofin council conclusions, of 13 november, when aviation and shipping revenues were mentioned, as were carbon markets: so there actually are some alternative sources of revenue.
i hope that when we come to doha, on behalf of the commission, i will have an adopted, agreed multiannual financial framework (mff) so that i can point to the fact that there is substantial new money for climate action, for access to energy and for many of these things, with a particular focus on africa – a point that was mentioned by mr eickhout.
to mention just a few, they include the back-loading proposal, the carbon market report with the structural options for the carbon market, the lulucf (land use, land use change and forestry) proposal that mr arsenis mentioned, the cars regulation and the f-gas regulation; and we had the proposal for a 20% climate mainstreaming of the entire mff.
the energy efficiency directive has been adopted but it is now very much up to the member states to actually implement it.
we also have the energy taxation directive.
in these final seconds i would also like to highlight the fact that, in the commission’s work programme for next year, we have announced that we will prepare a 2030 initiative on both climate and energy, so i hope we can have some useful discussions about the target we will need for 2030. my very last point is that i know some will say ‘yes, but this is costly and we have an economic crisis’.
the cornerstone of the eu contribution to the global goals is set out in the eu climate and energy legislative package.
the eu has adopted an ambitious, independent target for mitigation to reduce emissions to 20% below 1990 levels by 2020. by continuing to both fulfil its present commitment and affirm its willingness to move conditionally to a reduction of up to 30%, the eu hopes that its example will help stimulate stronger commitments from other major economies.
it is noteworthy that this review will thus be able to take into account the fifth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc).
the resolution was tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, and was signed by no less than six groups in the house, which shows the remarkable consensus that exists on a matter as serious as this.
the need to find a sustainable solution for gaza is more urgent than ever – a long-term solution which will not lead to yet another round of violence.
of course, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gróbarczyk, and i would like to say that we welcome parliament’s endorsement that this stock should be managed according to the principle of maximum sustainable yield.
it seems very easy now to refer to maximum sustainable yield, but i would like to remind all of you that it was not like this years ago; we have made progress here and we have done this together.
small-scale fisheries are also likely to benefit the most from a reformed fisheries policy based on a clear and time-bound obligation to manage stocks at maximum sustainable levels and to eliminate discards.
this report is also important because it looks beyond the common fisheries policy into other policies, other areas that have an important impact on the sustainable management of international fisheries resources, such as trade and foreign policy.
i am very pleased that parliament shows broad support for bold external action for sustainable fisheries management worldwide.
it will also strengthen our position in negotiations with third parties to move forward the sustainability agenda and the global fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
- mr president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the committee on regional development, i am sorry that you agree that small-scale fishing, coastal fishing, shellfish and extensive aquaculture are socially, economically and environmentally sustainable forms of fishing.
we are discussing a number of important issues, including the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, which allows the eu fleet to fish on the high seas and in third country waters, and through which the european union also exports principles of good governance, taking the lead in defending sustainability, ensuring food security in the least developed countries and effectively fighting illegal fishing.
in my view, the proposal to bring fish stocks above the maximum sustainable yield, rather than at the maximum sustainable yield, that is to say, to cut fishing opportunities beyond what is necessary, also makes no sense.
i therefore support these contributions on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, but i also support the need for a place in it for small-scale and artisanal fisheries, which are more integrated into their natural and social ecosystem.
i believe that we must carry out a fair and balanced fisheries reform; a reform which respects fisheries resources, social and economic sustainability, the environment and the marine environment; a reform which is fair to fishermen who, for centuries, have used selective, low-impact fishing gear and who take care of the sea, because it has been and is their main source of life.
this is a competence that comes from the environment directive, and so it is a competence of the member states.
this can help create a more positive climate in our coastal areas, which must be our focus.
let me make it clear: we need to respect these people and their sustainability issues.
this will not be easy, but we need to have a solid policy to ensure that sustainability issues concerning our waters are respected, in order to embark on international cooperation on combating illegal fisheries.
we practise a fact-based trade policy in defence of european economic and social interests, and in the interests of the competitiveness and sustainability of the european economy and european industry.
finally, as for the renewable energy sector, the european union will continue to pursue fair and liberalised trade globally.
while you would prefer this to happen under the wto framework, the commission is also open to a multilateral agreement on renewable energies, such as the proposed sustainable energy trade agreement.
you also see that our bilateral trade agreements will also tackle both tariff and non-tariff barriers in the renewable energy sector.
the commission is also working specifically on the promotion of this relatively new sector through the renewable energy directive, which was adopted in 2009. this directive has established a regulatory framework that has been conducive to technological development, cost reductions and innovation through economies of scale.
i would like to draw your attention to the fact that just a few weeks ago, in october 2012, the commission adopted a communication on an integrated industrial policy for the globalisation era which focuses on competitiveness and sustainability of european industry.
it is very important to conserve species such as sharks through sustainable fishing practices that make it possible for fishermen to avoid environmental excesses.
this is not only a senseless waste, it also puts pressure on threatened shark species.
climate change, which was denied by a large number of members of parliament a few years ago, must now be one of the main items on the political agenda of the international community in order to mitigate the disastrous effects that such change can produce.
the resolution calls for the eu to continue to play a leading role in reducing emissions in order to mitigate climate change.
un framework convention on climate change (unfccc) 18th session of the conference of the parties (cop-18) and the eight meeting of parties of the kyoto protocol (mop-8) will be held in doha, qatar 26.11.-7.12.2012. the doha meeting is expected to make progress on the durban platform of action, setting work programme towards agreeing a ‘protocol, legal instrument or agreed outcome with legal force under the convention, applicable to all parties’ at the latest by 2015. the mop should also adopt the formal amendments to establish a second commitment period under kyoto protocol.
the envi adopted resolution is mainly a positive one, it calls for/stresses, inter alia: new protocol to ensure mitigation action in line with below 2°c carbon budget, means for the required climate action in developing countries, and robust compliance and clarity and agreement on comparability of effort for non-kp developed parties.?
the report is based on the sound assumption that the effects of climate change may exacerbate existing conflicts.
the report also proposes european budget funds for military purposes, closer cooperation between nato and the european union, the inclusion of military elements in climate change policy, as well as its integration with energy policy.
the original idea was to go further with practical recommendations such as the nomination of an eu special representative on climate security, the establishment of a formal working group on climate security within the external action service and the creation of an eu corps of military engineers.
- i voted in favour of this report because it involves a commitment to an activity capable of exploiting fishery resources in a socially and environmentally sustainable way.
the reform of the common fisheries policy has completely ignored the reality of small-scale and artisanal fishing and has focused on the large fishing companies which cause the greatest environmental damage to the seas.
the report proposes the creation of specific support mechanisms for this activity within the framework of the common fisheries policy, which is essential to ensure the survival of this activity and the sustainability of the areas traditionally used for fishing in europe.
and a side of cooperation and development aid, where the european union shows that it is not a selfish europe and that it remains the main donor of development aid, by contributing to the resolution of the problems that still remain in the region in relation to social cohesion, democratic institutions, security, respect for the environment, support for infrastructure, education, etc.
as regards political dialogue, i believe that the agreement is in line with the european union's support for central american peace, democracy and the defence of fundamental rights, which began in the 1980s; on trade, i welcome the achievement of a predictable framework of legal certainty and the progressive expansion of the exchange of goods and services, thanks to the creation of a wide free trade area; and in the field of cooperation, the agreement will be a valuable support for the efforts needed to promote social cohesion and sustainable development.
and in this new environment, the agreement will make our relationship with central america deeper and more effective.
but in general there is broad agreement among the majority groups in this house in favour of this trade agreement, political dialogue and cooperation, which will be mutually beneficial for both parties and which also has a component - although it has been said no - of guaranteeing human rights, environmental guarantees and other aspects which will also enrich the relationship between the european union and central america.
but to fully deliver on the agreement’s potential, we must ensure its effective implementation, including its sustainable development aspects.
given the specific social and environmental situation in colombia and in peru, these provisions are all the more important.
the roadmaps on human, environmental and labour rights, which were adopted by colombia and peru upon your – parliament’s – request, will also contribute to the process that lies ahead.
this is proof of the strong and unwavering commitment by the two governments towards a trade agreement which can help implement a sustainable development agenda.
i therefore believe that this is really a very valuable agreement not only for economic reasons but also for reasons of social development and the protection of fundamental rights and of the environment.
the digital business environment - we must admit - is hostile to our companies, especially our smes.
we have a business environment which generates enormous costs and makes it impossible for our smes - which make up 99% of our businesses and generate 85% of the jobs in the union - to afford the adventure of cross-border online trading that exists today.
electronic commerce must be another step towards a sustainable economic activity, while keeping consumer protection as a priority.
the environmental issue has entirely disappeared from the text of the safeguard clause.
greens share the many concerns of scholars, human rights organisations, churches, cooperation agencies, trade unions, small farmers, businesses and cooperatives in central america that this aa is not the right tool to bring peace, justice, sustainable development and added-value creation to the region.
i would stress that the eu's external trade policy must be consistent with respect for human rights and international environmental and ilo conventions.
the environmental issue has entirely disappeared from the text of the safeguard clause.
peru should equally overcome its role as a ‘mining and export crop only’ producer, which has devastating effects on biodiversity and very deficient and unqualified job creation.
i would stress that the eu's external trade policy must be consistent with respect for human rights and international environmental and ilo conventions, especially in countries where there are particularly violent internal conflicts.
the human rights situation is improving in colombia and peru and we should continue to support the efforts of the colombian and peruvian governments on human and environmental rights.
that is what we are really talking about: a strategy to reduce the money from the common agricultural policy, the money from cohesion policy, the money from the transeuropean networks, energy, telecommunications - and that is not the way.
opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
- mr president, first of all i would like to apologize for the absence of the author of the opinion, mr andrés perelló, from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
we think it would have been a good participation, especially if it is a real participation, and that it could have helped to a more complete view, as well as the inclusion of technical and organisational planning measures to reduce noise and emissions.
we also believe that the relevant information on trajectories, planning and emissions should be given in a more transparent way, which could even be consulted online by these associations or the public.
we also need to improve the management of aircraft noise in the vicinity of airports, for obvious reasons of environmental protection and quality of life for people.
it is a valuable first step towards making the commitments on financial system contribution reached at the 2009 g20 summit in pittsburgh effective at the global level and to advance a sustainable development agenda.
i think we are at risk, we are suffering the perverse effects of the second law of thermodynamics, we are in a process of entropy, we lose political energy and, by suffering this loss of political energy, what has been a story of synergies is becoming a story of dysfunctions.
europe can only meet the challenge it faces by achieving a real growth pact in which sustainable and efficient public investment can put innovation and development at the service of job creation.
the text could have addressed issues related to the environmental criterion, such as noise, air pollution, climate change or energy expenditure.
greens/efa tabled amendments on the introduction of an auctioning system of slots, related to environmental criteria (noise, local air pollution, climate change and energy consumption), but they were rejected by the tran committee vote.
the leichtfried report also makes its application conditional on the supervision of several bodies, making it difficult to establish a clear standard which also lays down measures to reduce the impact of polluting emissions from aircraft.
regrettably the overarching focus of the legislation on airport operation is aimed at boosting airport capacity, which is ultimately at odds with citizens’ concerns on noise and its health effects, as well as being bad for the environment.
in addition, economic, social and environmental indicators on the different issues will be included.
measuring environmental sustainability, quality of life or social cohesion will, with this new regulation, complement the classic economic indicators.
green priorities were to a large extent taken on board at committee level, and resulted in satisfactory compromises in the final deal, covering amongst other things: enshrining the principles of relevance, accuracy and reliability, timeliness and punctuality, accessibility and clarity and coherence and comparability; references to gender equality, including the need for gender-disaggregated data; the need for economic, social and environmental indicators to all be treated on an equal footing; highlighting the need to pioneer the development of reliable indicators able to meet the challenges of the 21st century, namely measuring environmental sustainability, quality of life and social cohesion, promoted as a complement to classical economic indicators, and recording distinctly economic activity in the tertiary sector and the social economy; explicit reference to poverty indicators.
we must introduce mechanisms to ensure that capital movements contribute to human development, to overcoming the existing inequalities between peoples and social sectors and to environmental balance, and to restrict purely speculative movements.
in addition, our dependence on the outside world for energy, our position as the world's leading trading power and the phenomenon of globalisation all force us to interact with the rest of the world.
moreover, many european companies would simply not be ready to participate in the modernisation of russia without a strengthened rule of law, a determined fight against corruption and a predictable business climate.
i think this is an opportunity which this parliament should not waste.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
for the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it encourages ‘all political parties and actors in albania (...) including the media and civil society (to) strive to improve the political climate in the country to enable dialogue and mutual understanding’.
however, we would have preferred our motion for a resolution to have succeeded, in which we pointed out the importance of the steel industry to the economy of the european union and to all the sectors which use its products, as illustrated by the important role of steel production in the development of renewable energy technologies.
in this resolution, we highlighted the difficulties facing the steel industry in many eu member states, partly due to the rise in raw material prices, the fall in global demand and the increase in energy-related costs, and we also called on the commission, the council and the member states to monitor the challenges facing the steel industry and, where appropriate, to integrate these issues into the development of relevant policies and legislation.
the petitioners have strongly expressed their concern about the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel mill in taranto, emissions which have had and continue to have a considerable and persistent harmful impact on the health of the local population.
the levels of pollution among the local population have led to unacceptable and intolerable rates of health problems and chronic diseases.
we therefore call on the commission and the council in the resolution to develop a new policy for the steel industry that will promote growth and jobs during the economic crisis and is compatible with the health and safety of all eu citizens and residents, and to work with all stakeholders to ensure that this policy coherently combines economic objectives with social and environmental priorities, so as to build a modern, competitive and sustainable european steel industry that fully respects eu environmental legislation.