production has become significantly more expensive for farmers in the last 10 years, as a result of the increase in the overall energy price.
in order to bridge the cost-benefit gap to some extent, farmers need to implement more energy and resource-saving measures in their production processes.
- i support the report by mr caronna entitled 'strategy to prevent food waste and increase efficiency in the food chain in the eu', because i believe that food waste is a pressing contemporary problem which has not received sufficient attention.
this is particularly the case where the actual extent of food waste is invisible to the average consumer, as most of it occurs during the production and transportation phases of food.
measures to prevent food waste are simple and exist (buying the right amount of food, buying food produced by the producer closest to the consumer, storing food properly, etc.
easy access to financing both from public and private sources will ensure sustainable and competitive smes.
we have made it very clear that we do not believe that the death penalty should be used in any circumstances, but it is especially worrying in the current climate and situation in belarus.
i agree with the rapporteur that this report needs to be adopted more urgently and without amendments in order to ensure the rapid, effective and sustainable continuation of food aid.
my colleagues here today in the plenary have proposed relevant and concrete measures that the eu should take, and i very much hope that we do not waste time in delivering a clear strategy towards syria.
women's political participation is one of the foundations of democracy and is essential for achieving sustainable development and peace, as also stated in the joint declaration of the 66th session of the united nations general assembly in new york.
it is among the leading world users of renewable energies and investing in innovation and research in alternative energy sources.
− in its resolution on kazakhstan, the european parliament stresses the need to strengthen political and economic cooperation, including in the fields of democracy, human rights, the environment, energy, transport and trade, as well as in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking.
turkey is undoubtedly a country of great strategic importance to the european union its position as a european energy corridor, its rapid economic growth and its role as an influential trading partner are forcing and motivating europe to make accession negotiations a priority.
it is certainly worth noting that the specific measures of the posei programmes in agriculture and fisheries policy have been successful, which allows the possibility of launching other programmes of this type in other possible sectors, such as energy and renewable energy, transport and information and communication technologies.
those values are the cornerstones of the european union and it is important that we imprint them on every policy field, from energy and development to environment and trade.
given azerbaijan's important role in ensuring the energy security of the european union and its geographical location, it is a strategic partner of major importance.
in conclusion, however, the proposals in this report represent an important step towards meeting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
− while fighting global climate change is in everyone's interest, it is particularly important for women as the most socially vulnerable gender.
but today we are in a situation where decisions affecting society as a whole are overwhelmingly taken by men, including on environmental issues.
for a better overview, we should first collect statistics on both the impact of climate action on women and who is the decision-maker in environmental policy areas - men or women?
environmental issues and the measures taken to address them are of global concern and affect all people, which is why it is crucial that no gender is under-represented in delegations of negotiators and decision-makers.
the report 'women and climate change' highlights these issues, which is why i voted in favour of it.
− despite the fact that the un has declared 2010 to 2020 the decade of biodiversity and the european union considers the protection of biodiversity to be one of its very important priorities, it is regrettable that the world's environmental advocate has not been able to meet its own 2010 targets.
nor is it the solution to bring the most polluting factories into the european industrial environment in developing countries and report that things are getting better.
biodiversity and climate change are directly and mutually linked and we need to approach these issues at a global level.
in order to ensure that the objectives of the european union in the field of biodiversity protection are met, the various spheres of life need to be more closely involved and the importance of environmental impact assessment needs to be given greater emphasis.
mr president, the transition to democracy of the countries in the southern mediterranean must be enhanced by creating a favourable environment for trade and investment.
today, most users of the official journal of the european union make their enquiries in its electronic environment (eur-lex) and it is curious that, although we have an online database through which all european union legislation is accessible, the reference to its online version does not have a legal basis.
in order to make small airports sustainable and more profitable, they must be connected to larger airports and contribute to improving infrastructure.
− i have given my assent to the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2010. the institute was established in 2006 and became independent only in june 2010, which means that only half of the financial year in question the institution has been independent and this has to be taken into account when it comes to the sustainability of the european institute for gender equality.
the oil spills caused by the oil tanker accidents, in particular the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, are major environmental disasters with devastating consequences for marine fauna and flora.
this year, there have already been two accidents involving oil tankers in europe, which fortunately did not cause any major environmental damage, but which once again proves that these vessels have a relatively high incidence of accidents and therefore the safety of the environment, the vessel and its crew must be guaranteed.
as there are no realistic prospects of introducing the ftt on the global or even on the eu scale, it will be cheaper to abstain from it now, rather than to waste considerable time and resources only to come to the conclusion that it has proved rather inefficient lip-service to justice and economic revival.
− i believe that the introduction of a single european financial transaction tax is essential to find additional resources to stimulate the economy and ensure the sustainability of the european union.
i have my own experience from international negotiations in an environmental area, where we have extremely good cooperation.
− in the context of the ongoing economic crisis, europe and the world are at a crossroads to decide which way to go to make our human and natural environment sustainable.
the new growth engine must be resource efficiency through the development of various environmental technologies, not intelligent consumption.
we are preparing for this great week of public debate, from 15 to 22 october, on a new sustainable growth, mr cofferati.
the policies of the peoples' republic of china impact the economy, environment, society, demographics, culture and religion in tibet, while also bearing consequences to the neighbouring countries.
− i supported the resolution on a job-rich recovery, considering it important to focus on the substantive fulfilment of the employment objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
reducing the very high level of youth unemployment is a key issue for the sustainability of the european economy.
the new rules are an important step towards ensuring a strong and secure insurance sector that can offer sustainable insurance products and support the real economy through long-term investment and added stability.
the main contradictions cited in the opinions of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the committee on legal affairs and the committee on development and the committee on industry, research and energy are: - acta gives the authorities broad powers to control the internet under the guise of preventing piracy; - it creates the conditions for surveillance without judicial supervision and, in the event of mere suspicion, for the transfer of sensitive personal data to the copyright holder; - several terms of legal significance are not open to interpretation by arbitrary interests of the moment; - there is a risk of leaking of trade secrets, since the agreement does not guarantee any confidentiality of the information contained in it; - the objective of preventing access to the market for counterfeit medicines has not been achieved, but rather the agreement prevents the availability of cheap generic medicines; - and, of course, the confidentiality of the terms of the agreements.
i therefore encourage the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the european external action service to insist that all syrian opposition movements, representing the various religious, ethnic and political groups, are invited to the negotiations so that a sustainable regime transition can take place.
mr president, the recent rio+20 conference aimed to renew global political commitment to sustainable development, but failed.
the failure of world leaders to progress to sustainable development calls for civil society around the world to step in.
- i voted today in favour of adopting the report on financial assistance in the field of trans-european transport and energy networks, more specifically project bonds.
it is recognised that the development of modern and efficient infrastructure is essential to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to reduce unemployment, thus ensuring the completion of a single and efficient internal market.
the investment needed in transport, energy and information and communication technologies over the next 10 years is approximately eur 1500 billion.
- ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the sulphur content of marine fuels has a significant impact not only on europe's environment and air quality, but also on the transport sector.
secondary particulate matter from sulphur and nitrogen oxides from ship-source air pollution is estimated to cause up to 50 000 premature deaths per year in europe.
- i decided to remain neutral in the vote on this report because i consider it unfair that the baltic sea has stricter limits on sulphur emissions than, for example, the mediterranean and the black sea.
however, excessive environmental standards may reduce the competitiveness of european shipping and increase the share of road transport.
the latter scenario would be known to be much more harmful to our environment, as maritime transport can carry much more goods and passengers than road or rail, maritime roads have no traffic congestion and require little money or natural resources (except for waterway signage, maritime surveillance) to maintain them.
however, in order to ensure the development of european shipping, it is essential to simplify the granting of state aid for the necessary environmental investments.
− secondary particulate matter from sulphur and nitrogen oxides from air pollution from ships causes up to 50 000 premature deaths a year in europe.
there's no time to waste.
− i voted in favour of this report as i believe setting up an information exchange system between the commission and member states regarding intergovernmental agreements with third countries in the field of energy is absolutely needed.
the european parliament has called repeatedly for a common eu foreign policy on energy which would provide a basis for transparency and coordinated actions.
and, as the report states, such transparency would also be of benefit in achieving both closer intra-union cooperation in the field of external energy relations and the union’s long-term policy objectives relating to energy, climate and security of energy supply.
the european union, in turn, will be able to help battle economic inequality by establishing minimum social, labour, safety and environmental standards on imported products.
mr president, the european union development policy is essentially one of the most intertwined policy areas, with direct links to the foreign and security policy, human rights, climate and fisheries policies, the european neighbourhood policy and so on.
seven-year planning requires the ability to be objective in assessing today's problems on the one hand and to be able to anticipate what will actually happen in 2020. i am convinced that building common european routes and helping european union citizens to move more freely is an area we will not fail to develop better opportunities for sharing between member states is a permanent need and a sustainable policy.
the eu first needs to address two dramatic weaknesses: 1. the alarmingly insufficient and unequal level of competitiveness motivating several member states to protectionism instead of conducting genuine structural reforms; 2. failure to fully understand that in the present demographic situation, where only 2-3 taxpayers are left for one retired person, the model of the established welfare state is not and will not be sustainable.
in many member states it still remains a faint dream and very few steps are actually taken to adapt to the changing society and business environment of the 21st century.
madam president, i wholeheartedly support the commission’s endeavours to create a more predictable and transparent regulatory environment in mutual trade.
we should not waste any time in doing this.
the energy charter treaty has been a notorious example.
the introduction of a mistral vessel into the baltic sea will not have a positive impact on its biological or political environment.
the european parliament will soon be debating a draft directive on greenhouse gases from motor fuels and their calculation methodology.
in this way, co2 emissions are not reduced but rather increased, as the artificial need to import all the diesel needed by estonia is created, while the equivalent amount of diesel is exported from estonia.
invest in people member states should focus more on providing comprehensive assistance to the unemployed, creating sustainable jobs, investing in education and reforming pension systems.
− i supported this report, considering it of the utmost importance to reduce unemployment and to deliver on the europe 2020 strategy, which aims at sustainable and inclusive growth.
it is through solidarity, where every member of society matters, regardless of age, religion, race or gender, that a socially cohesive europe with a sustainable economy can be ensured.
− i believe that the european union's energy independence is very important and i support the search for alternative sources of supply.
the production of shale gas and shale oil must of course follow the rules of sustainable and safe production and take into account the environmental impact assessment carried out in advance.
as a native of the oil shale country of estonia, i am satisfied that our oil shale producers are correctly complying with the european union's environmental standards.
there is effective monitoring, both by the state and the public, including through public consultations on environmental impact assessment.
however, the production of oil and gas by hydraulic fracturing raises questions as the use of this technology has received conflicting assessments and is not sufficiently safe for the environment.
i supported the report because it highlights the need for european energy independence and supports the search for new sources of supply.
our member states should not be energy dependent on undemocratic gas and oil states.
energy independence should be one of the eu’s most important geopolitical goals and therefore it is crucial that member states can make their own decisions on energy.
should energy decisions also affect other member states, the opinions and the european dimension need to be taken into account – as often emphasized by parliament.
this protects the sovereignty of member states in their choices of energy and allows for the diversification of energy sources – which is crucial for the member states who are currently dependant to a large extent on one country as a major energy provider, russia.
the sonik report clearly points out that fears and prejudices against shale gas and its environmental and health impact are mostly ungrounded, as long as the highest environmental and safety standards are applied.
we have to guarantee the highest safety and ensure there are no negative effects on the environment or on health, but people must also have a warm house and lighting at affordable prices.
we need alternative energy and shale gas might be the solution at the moment.
therefore, there is a high demand for energy carriers and the potential use of shale gas will increase our energy independence.
secondly, article 194 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union clearly states that member states have sovereign rights in the choice of energy mix and that the issue of licences and other permits for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbon resources is a matter for the member state.
thirdly, environmental safety must be ensured irrespective of the decisions of the member state and, if the waste gas is extracted, strict control must be ensured to ensure maximum compliance with environmental requirements.
it is good to see that people are becoming more aware of the environment and want to get more involved in this area, as evidenced by the increase in the number of petitions on the environment, which already accounted for 16% of the total number of petitions registered.
− mr president, as a rapporteur i have discovered huge resources in the results of the work of previous european generations in the same area and topic, namely csdp and climate change.
one is of the utmost necessity during times of a globally changing security environment and the other is around and happening every day.
firstly, to appoint an eu climate security envoy within the external action service, following the british government’s example – admiral neil morisetti has been very successfully working for three years in this function.
secondly, another idea was to use the generally acknowledged perception that climate change is a threat multiplier and to use it as a platform to introduce more cooperation between member states and the respective military in particular, up to forming a joint engineering corps for the european union.
also the mainstreaming of potential effects of climate on security into the most important strategies, policy documents and financial instruments, would be a success in my opinion.
that could also work with climate and security.
we have been accused, regarding the role of the csdp in climate-driven security threats, of duplicating the excellent work that has been done by commissioner georgieva and her people in the field of the civil protection mechanism.
we had a meeting with commissioner georgieva, who, as a former professor and author of many books on environmental economics, had no difficulty at all in seeing that this report is complementary to her achievements.
on the issue of a special representative dealing with climate security, the european union is already focussing political attention on climate security challenges through its established structures.
the european union is already coordinating its action on climate security aspects with the un and its agencies.
it is therefore essential to ensure that this new partnership and cooperation agreement provides a comprehensive framework for the further development of relations in all priority areas, including human rights, the rule of law, democratisation; youth and education; economic development, trade and investment; energy and transport; environmental sustainability and water; and the fight against common threats and challenges.
attention should also be paid to the technical assistance to kazakhstan in the field of water conservation and general water resources management under the eu's central asia water initiative, which aims primarily at improving relations between upstream and downstream countries in the region and at achieving sustainable water-sharing agreements.
i agree that more research should also be done on the impact of the activities of predators and birds of prey on salmon stocks, but we must acknowledge the fact that the main threat is still human activity, whether it is environmental damage caused by dams in hydroelectric power stations or poaching, where salmon are recorded in the catch data as sea trout.
i have always appreciated the great contribution made by sweden and finland to the development of environmental protection in the baltic sea region and i hope that they will be able to engage with the same active and seriousness in the restoration and protection of the baltic sea salmon stocks.
i supported this report, which considered that greater monitoring of salmon fishing was needed and that the recommendations of the baltic sea marine environmental protection committee (helcom) on this issue should be followed.
the report by my estonian colleague, mr indrek taranti, which i supported, is certainly important in this respect, as it draws attention to the risks of climate-related crises and natural disasters and the need for an action plan to address them.
in this context, it is certainly necessary to provide that the new partnership and cooperation agreement should provide a comprehensive framework for the further development of relations in all priority areas, including human rights, the rule of law, democratisation, youth and education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, environmental sustainability and water, and the fight against common threats and challenges.
digital developments have changed the business and economic environment considerably in recent years.
− i supported the adoption of this report, considering it important to ensure the sustainability of the georgian economy and to provide financial assistance for this purpose.
the liberalisation of trade provided for in the fta is not a major threat to european industries and employment, as critics fear, as the agreement also provides for a bilateral safeguard clause, or backstop, in case the sustainability of some european industries is threatened.
now after four and a half years the diverging views regarding the trade and investment chapter has led to a difficult stalemate, and for the eu an agreement without solid trade investment and energy provisions is simply not an interesting option.
to achieve this in the interests of both sides we need to have enough critical mass on trade, investment and energy.
in the energy sector it is in our mutual interests to lay down the basis of closer contact between our regulators and network operators and to establish common basic market principles which can help us to make serious progress on developing a strategic energy partnership.
together with different mobility and energy issues, the new agreement will be one of the main subjects on the agenda.
there must be a clear energy division to ensure against unfair tariffs.