extending working hours and ensuring the sustainability of pension systems are also economic issues - they are human dignity issues, but they are also economic issues of great importance.
the danish presidency would like to be seen as a pioneer in a greener european energy future.
the four-priority sustainable growth programme aims at a more responsible, dynamic, green and secure europe.
as has already been said in this debate, the scientifically agreed timetable is far too slow to prevent the catastrophic acceleration of climate change.
now is the time to step up the level of our own climate action.
the ipcc calls on industrialized countries to reduce emissions by at least 25% by 2020. our law says only 20 percent.
we need to tighten our emissions targets.
the emissions from shipping are going to be a smoking gun.
now, in this new climate agreement, the possibility of compensating for emissions from deforestation is being eliminated, and this is a very worrying development, especially for the forest-rich european countries.
in the past, for example, emissions have been offset by the carbon footprint of forests, which is indeed huge in these forested countries.
mr president, i fully share the concern expressed by mr manner about the way in which carbon stocks are calculated.
i am surprised that we in europe think that a kyoto strategy with emission ceilings is the only way to save the climate.
looking at the statistics, it is clear that the us, for example, has reduced its emissions more effectively than the eu, which has committed to kyoto, over the last decade.
only nine countries are on the same page as the eu in reducing emissions.
kyoto covers 15% of global emissions.
i am pleased that we in the eu are finally paying more attention to a key food policy issue: food waste.
the present report sums up very well the main problems associated with food waste.
it is not just an ethical challenge, but food waste has clear links to agricultural reform, social justice and hunger.
it is obvious to all of us that it is a completely absurd situation that 30 to 50 percent of food, depending on the estimate, ends up in waste.
and most of all, as waste that is not recovered in any way.
the report now before us, which calls for the halving of food waste by 2025, is extremely important and i fully support it.
but as we consider ways to reduce waste, both at the production stage and at the consumer, we must keep the bigger picture in mind.
reducing food waste is a key part of this mission.
the report's 'european year against food waste 2013' would be a good opportunity for us to embark on a more sustainable food policy.
we need the practical tools, like electronic waste recycling, to make these strategies work in practice.
mr president, just as resource efficiency and the recycling of electronic waste are related, so too is the question of how more than half of the food produced is wasted, both globally and within the european union.
and how food chains, restaurants and public procurement support the fairest possible use of high-calorie capital and healthy food across europe, while supporting biodiversity goals and also reducing the climate impact of food production.
i too voted in favour of the report on the prevention of food waste.
at the same time, with almost 80 million eu citizens living below the poverty line, struggling to make a living, and more than 900 million people worldwide suffering from malnutrition, here in europe, nearly 180 kilograms of food waste accumulate per person per year.
as regards food waste, the waste of edible food in particular is completely unsustainable from an ecological, economic and also ethical point of view.
if edible food is thrown away, the environmental impact of raw materials and food processing is also completely unnecessary.
the costs of the final stages of the equipment are minimised in advance, ensuring that the minimum amount of waste is generated and the minimum amount of waste to be recycled.
the whole chain - producers, importers, traders, consumers, waste management and recycling organisations and public authorities - thus plays a part in this responsibility.
the greens think that the eu should also set a good example and give up nuclear energy, as germany has decided.
indeed, between 2004 and 2010, the committee on petitions received a total of 114 petitions dealing exclusively with procedures that infringe eu waste legislation.
the european union's member states have very different waste management policies, and we should be able to intervene more closely in this area.
the deadline for the implementation of the waste framework directive expired in 2010 and only six member states have been able to implement it, so citizens' concerns need to be taken very seriously.
you also have to remember that waste is opportunity.
as has been said, waste is a resource and the development of waste management will certainly create many new jobs and improve the resource efficiency of the european union.
but it is very important to ensure that when we act as europeans we implement projects which are in line with the values of the european union and are thus ethically sustainable.
it is time to look ahead and to consider ways of dealing with the present crisis: europe needs growth, jobs and socially sustainable development!
in an ageing europe, pension systems need to be built to be sustainable.
in many countries, painful decisions have to be made, such as raising the retirement age and raising pensions to a sustainable level.
the sooner the system is recycled, the easier it is to make it sustainable.
in addition, sustainable solutions are needed to prevent similar crises in the future.
a more sustainable and stable euro area is in the interest of europe as a whole.
this movement of people and papers also wastes the environment.
the european external action service, and in particular the commission, should develop clear and sustainable guidelines for all its commercial activities in non-eu countries.
i was in favour of supporting sustainable agriculture and family farms.
women are responsible for the tasks to be taken care of with these resources: education, social care, environment, health and so on.
and, yes indeed, we have to ensure that there is an environment that helps women participate in politics.
mr president, let me just briefly say that i am glad that the council again underlined the fact that sustainable growth and jobs cannot be built on deficit and excessive debt levels.
at the same time, it has a lot of knowledge about renewable energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we should all recognize that the eu's current climate policy is lagging behind what the science is telling us to do.
last november, the international energy agency published a grave warning.
if we continue ‘business as usual’ it will mean that in five years we will have lost the possibility to keep global warming below a 2°c increase because the ‘business as usual’ investments made by then will have used up the room for manoeuvre which we have for global emissions.
this means that, in practice, the international energy agency too has asked us to be more ambitious in our climate policies.
this report calls for many very important actions towards a low-carbon economy, and i think it also sets out very coherent and concrete actions targeted at policy blocks and the need specifically to invest in a green economy.
we need cooperation now, and indeed immediate action, to move towards a low-carbon economy, and we need cooperation between the different policy blocks, from agriculture to cohesion policy and then to environmental policy.
of course, this energy policy is very central to this when we talk about how we replace coal.
i would like to say that i agree with the previous speaker that we cannot find any alternative to renewable energy.
the commission is right to make long-term plans to ensure that the eu has a truly competitive low-carbon economy by 2050. however, it seems strange that many of the objectives that the commission has put forward and that some of my colleagues support are doing the exact opposite for the eu, especially when we take into account the global realities.
in all our actions, we should give priority to what is happening in international climate policy: if we decide now to take unilateral action to cut emissions by up to 95% without committing ourselves to an international climate agreement and to similar cuts in third countries, we will be far from competitive.
the symptoms of our climate policies are already visible in our economic and employment situation, without any real environmental benefits.
in the long term, we should not lock ourselves into expensive methods and base our plans on them, but rather strive to create an environment for our industry which encourages investment and innovation in more efficient technology.
the additional unilateral commitments are not encouraging, considering that our emissions are around 11% worldwide; they are stifling our economy.
that is why i am concerned in the report we are discussing about the desire to intervene artificially in the emissions trading system and to politically manipulate the price of emission allowances.
this would be a very dangerous measure, which would deprive our industry of any ability to plan its actions in the climate policy environment we have created, and it would certainly not encourage the development of technologies.
emissions trading is a means of achieving the objectives of reducing emissions.
the tightening of the cap will reduce emissions in a planned way and, on the market, the price will be determined by the economic situation of each country.
madam president, peaceful and non-violent means are the only way to achieve a sustainable solution in the israeli-palestinian conflict.
it supplies the eu countries with energy and other products, but it is particularly important to us in terms of energy security.
mr president, mr commissioner, these negotiations will cover a wide range of issues, not just energy and economic issues.
− the european commission's proposal for a reform of energy taxation contains the concept of proportionality, which, if implemented, would require member states to respect the relative difference in the minimum tax rate for different forms of energy.
the decision would also be a false message to the millions of european consumers who have been guided and influenced by numerous incentives and decisions in recent years to invest in diesel as a vehicle fuel, especially because of its lower co2 emissions.
if the growing conditions are poor or the growing season is short or the climate is very cold, these factors should be predominant.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a good report, but if i may, i would like to say a few critical words about the thinking on climate change in general.
when we talk about climate, all too often we talk about numbers and markets.
i think that in climate change, we should put people at the center.
for the most disadvantaged women in the developing world, for example, climate change is not just about market failure; it's about how it affects everyday life.
climate change is about people, and only secondarily about numbers and markets.
as my colleagues have already said, the eu's seventh environmental programme should be adopted as soon as possible.
we are constantly making decisions which affect the environment under other headings, as the report says.
one of these is agricultural policy, which affects biodiversity, water resources and climate, among other things.
for example, the future of the baltic sea environment is to a large extent decided by decisions on common agriculture.
the baltic sea is one of the most polluted seas in the world, and its biggest problem is pollution, which is mainly caused by agriculture.
the environment and the economy are not opposites, as the commission's report published this week shows.
you see, climate change is not just a matter of our environment and our well-being, but its effects are particularly severe on women in developing countries.
women are discriminated against in environmental, economic and family policies.
it is encouraging that studies show that women are interested in making sustainable consumption decisions.
women must also be given a voice in society when it comes to climate change action.
as a result, they are also more sensitive to the threats and harms of climate change in their daily lives and in the way they organise their lives.
on the other hand, women also have a key role to play in building sustainable consumption and lifestyles, sustainable urban planning and combating climate change.
it is therefore, as this report says, particularly important that women are able to participate more fully in decision-making and in making climate policy choices.
i am pleased that the political empowerment of women in climate policy has also become a central concern of this parliament.
mr president, the disappearance of the safety net for biodiversity at an alarming rate, which is accelerating, requires urgent action and time is running out.
i am deeply sorry that i have had to vote against the majority of my group on these questions, but i believe that the loss of biodiversity is such a serious threat to the existence of all mankind that i personally could not have acted otherwise.
the green façade was a very successful information project for the biodiversity year, with over half a million people viewing it.
it was voted the third best biodiversity awareness project in europe by the guardian magazine and the best tourist destination in the country by the danes.
environmental factors are also important.
i think that the postponement is necessary because we have encountered certain difficulties with the environment agency.
moreover, this emissions trading is part of a unilateral climate policy which is damaging not only our competitiveness but also the environment by creating competitive disadvantages for european airlines which have done their job well.
now that the weaknesses of unilateral climate policy have been revealed, it is unlikely that any such legislation would pass in this house.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment.
this is particularly the case in taxation and environmental matters.
if member states are not willing to implement, for example, environmental legislation, how will the eu achieve, for example, the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, as regards a resource and energy efficient europe?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
for example, eu legislation aims to improve the business environment for consumers and smes.
however, a better environment is difficult to achieve without reforms and common legislation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in finnish, this means all those security threats that are traditional (organized crime, violence, unrest) or equally more modern, such as environmental, economic and corporate crime.
the fact that the environment commissioner, mr potočnik, has made this a specific subject of his work is welcome, and so is the commission's road map.
the most important part of the report by the committee on the environment is the requirement for clear and measurable indicators and sectoral targets.
sadly, some mines have become infamous for emitting pollutants into the environment that are tens or even tens of times higher than permitted levels.
anything we can do to improve resource efficiency and recycling efficiency will also reduce any environmental damage associated with mining.
if we think about the recycling of waste at the moment in europe, we still have countries where household waste ends up in landfills at 100% and in that sense we have a lot to do in europe together on this issue.
it is also good that the report takes account of the recycling of food waste.
the gerbrady report also stresses the role of renewable natural resources such as forests in resource efficiency.
the global growth of the population, the almost doubling of the number of middle-class consumers and the growing need for food production are creating a situation which must be solved in a sustainable way and as soon as possible.
making the most efficient use of natural resources will increase the eu's competitiveness, help to preserve the environment and biodiversity, and is an important part of the transition to a low-carbon industry.
the danger is that - as has already happened with our climate policy - we will create a legislative jungle in which overlaps make the goal itself not only impossible but also expensive.
for example, in waste matters, local conditions should be taken into account.
in some situations, burning may be necessary and even beneficial for energy production.
similarly, proposals to tighten the environmental tax or proposals for new taxes are not universal, especially not in resource-rich countries.
we need broad definitions of resources so that all ecosystem services are included.
the report on energy policy cooperation with border neighbours is important because it helps to align future energy policy priorities also within our borders.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the balance in the report, covering both the strengthening of the eu energy market and the need to extend links with the eu energy network and the neighbourhood network, the creation of a wider regulatory area, but also concrete actions such as how to develop our cooperation by exploiting different technologies and forms of energy.
in particular, energy sustainability and strengthened partnerships with different supplier countries are issues that need to be focused on.
the report rightly states that the proliferation of non-conventional energy technologies will bring new sources of energy that are previously unknown to us.
however, it is important that we keep in mind the need for energy self-sufficiency in all our energy solutions, which is why the emphasis in eu energy policy must be on producing and promoting domestic forms of energy.
at the same time, it is clear that oil sands and shale gas, for example, are the energy forms of the future that we need until low-emission forms of energy are commercially available and efficient.
these new forms of production are dividing opinion among citizens and policy-makers alike, and it is therefore also necessary to ensure that these forms of energy are as environmentally friendly as possible.
in this context, regular energy dialogue with our partners is important in order to develop and better monitor the safe, secure and efficient production, transmission, transport, storage and processing of energy.
cooperation on fusion research and nuclear safety must also be increased if we are to reduce risks globally in this still indispensable form of energy.
the european union is committed to the development of a sustainable and inclusive society.
in this process, the sustainable development goals, which may be decided at the rio+20 summit, would be at the centre.
both colombia and peru must continue to work towards the respect and implementation of human rights obligations and environmental protection.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal.
china has driven many actions that threaten tibet's language, culture, religion, heritage and environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the eu's main rio+20 priority was the global transition to a green economy that promotes sustainable management of natural resources, sustainable consumption and production.
many of you know how i feel about the un climate process.
rio+20 was not a climate summit, but what they have in common is that the processes in their current form do not achieve anything meaningful.
future generations need jobs, sustainable energy, the ability to consume sustainably and a voice in decision-making.
fortunately, the process of the so-called sustainable development goals was put into place, and water and sanitation as a human right, spearheaded by finland, was mentioned for the first time in a un document.
it is very important, mr president, that parliament should strongly support the establishment and financing of pan-european transport and energy networks.
i believe that, for example, the substantial funding for the european high-voltage grid, which would enable us to guarantee greater energy efficiency, security of energy supply and also greater use of renewable energies in electricity generation, is a key investment on which the entire european union, the european investment bank, the project bonds and also its financing should concentrate their resources in the future.
it is important to increase the financing of the transeuropean transport and energy networks and to seek new instruments for them.
we need sustainable growth now, because the debt that has been incurred now cannot be repaired any other way.
in this respect, this is a good project, one in which the european union can play a part in creating the conditions for sustainable growth.
the commission has taken an important step in this direction and i welcome the commission's proposal and the report of the committee on the environment that the matter is now being dealt with cautiously.
the pollution emissions from ships will be significantly reduced: ships will either have to switch to low-sulphur fuels or clean up their flue gas.
today, air pollution from ships is estimated to cause some 50,000 premature deaths a year.
by reducing sulphur emissions from ships by almost a tenth, thousands of lives are saved every year.
although the main thrust of the directive is to align eu legislation with the international environmental agreement, there has been a strong lobbying effort.
i would like to ask the following questions to those of you who have called for the eu to take a stand against international environmental standards in shipping.
or do you want tens of thousands of people to die prematurely from pollution from ships?
do you want european taxpayers to pay many times the price for heart and lung disease compared to what it costs to clean up the pollution of ships?
the consulted text implies that article 86 of the state aid guidelines on environmental aid, environmental protection, applies to retrofits.
mr president, let us remember the basics: this is a very important health and environment directive which will indeed save lives.
it is quite clear that we need to reduce sulphur emissions, but the way we are doing it now is very unfair, as has already been shown here.
now the seca regions will have to reduce their emissions by 0.1% by 2015, while the southern european countries can maintain a 3.5% share of emissions until 2020. this creates a very unfair position for competition.
as several colleagues have mentioned, there will be a difference in environmental requirements for shipping in northern and southern europe, but this difference already exists.
it is both cleaner, meeting all environmental standards, and cheaper.
i am absolutely in favour of protecting the environment and health.
the transitional provisions are far too strict for sulphur emissions in the seca area.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all the climate scenarios i have seen whether the iea, the potsdam institute, mckinsey or anyone else conclude that the overwhelmingly most cost-effective way to protect the climate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions is to invest in energy savings.
the crux of the problem is that so many millions of people make energy-saving and energy-consumption decisions every day.
for example, the energy saving potential of building renovation is enormous, but it will not be realised unless member states undertake a large-scale consultancy and retraining effort, reaching the entire building sector from architects to plumbers and electricians.
mr president, the energy efficiency directive was well intended, but the result is unfair.
in fact, in a broad sense, the decision now taken encourages those who are doing well to end their current energy efficiency activities and to return to them at the beginning of 2014. this is not in the spirit of good legislation and that is why my country's parliament also put forward a notification directive.
the reduction of sulphur emissions is absolutely right in itself, but the protection of health and the environment must not be achieved by any means whatsoever.
it is clear that we all agree that the environment must be protected and that the limits on pollution must be reduced.
governments and permanent representations: danish environment minister, ida auken; danish permanent representation; finnish environment minister, ville niinistö; finnish permanent representation; french permanent representation; norwegian ministry of environment; polish permanent representation; swedish environment minister, lena ek; swedish permanent representation;european commission: dg environment, civil servants responsible for the sulphur directive industries.
non-governmental organisations: armateurs de france; brittany ferries; confederation of finnish industries; couple systems; european environmental bureau; european cruise council (ecc); european petroleum industry association; exhaust gas cleaning systems association; exxonmobil; federation of finnish technology industries; finnish forest industries federation; finnish shipowners' association; fipra international (representing royal caribbean cruises ltd); germanischer lloyd; international association of classification societies ltd; port of rotterdam; rautaruukki corporation; scandline stena ab; total transport & environment; tt-line gmbh & co.; kg; union of european petroleum independents; wärtsilä.
the committee on the environment's position on the sulphur content of marine fuels was clear.
although i think that reducing sulphur emissions for health reasons is very welcome, i would have liked to see some recognition in the outcome of the negotiations of the fact that some member states have to bear a much greater burden in these objectives than others.
there, 82 percent of the stock is overfished beyond the scientifically sustainable level.
overfishing is not only an ecological disaster, it is also an economic and social disaster.
one of the main points in my report and that of my predecessor, carl haglund, is to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015. maximum sustainable yield means that you don't fish faster than the fish stock can reproduce.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
in many member states, these companies are legally framed to operate in the same environment and under the same rules as other companies, although it is certainly much more difficult for them to raise funds and investments for their own activities.
i'm really concerned about this political climate.
the report supports the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, which is helping the eu to become more competitive in an increasingly competitive global environment.
in pakistan, as in many other developing countries, parents often fail to understand the importance of educating girls for sustainable development for the benefit of society as a whole.
the safety of machinery and equipment is an essential part of a safe working environment.
high standards of road and occupational safety and environmental protection are also important elements in this regulation.
i would like to thank mr costa for his comprehensive and worthwhile report, which highlights the opportunities for digital technology in education and learning, but also points out the dangers faced by children and young people in the online environment.
this is not a sustainable model for european democracy.
i voted for this report, mr president, which means that it is important for us to discuss here the industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil, and it is certainly important that we discuss them with regard to the environmental aspects, because we are committed to sustainable development and growth in the european union and the member states, and it is therefore very important that when we look for these new forms, new technologies, how to make better use of european energy resources.
but when we talk about better use, we must look beyond economic advantage and economic profit and also look at environmental values.
and i can say that it is very important to emphasize this aspect of this report, namely that new technologies, new investments are needed and that this will enable us to develop our mining industry in a sustainable way.
this is not a sustainable model for european democracy.
i think it is important that the technology be allowed to enter into use by responsible companies and entities which are committed to maintaining groundwater purity and minimising methane emissions to the best of their ability.
the creation of a comprehensive control system is essential to ensure the environmental safety of new technology.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the eu council of ministers to abandon the paralysing unanimity requirement in climate negotiations and move to the normal qualified majority in accordance with the lisbon treaty.
it's time for climate policy to wake up.
it is our human and global duty, as corinne lepage said, but also our own interest to tighten the target of at least a 30% reduction in emissions, while encouraging the rest of the world to move forward.
we repeat again and again that warming must be limited to below two degrees, even though we know very well that our current emissions targets do not correspond to this climate target.
it is high time that we, too, in our emission reduction targets, take action to limit global warming to two degrees.
we are still holding onto kyoto by force, as if a kyoto-style strategy with emission ceilings were the only way to save the climate.
we are reluctant to admit the facts, to the extent that some of our colleagues, led by the greens, want to vote against my two amendments which merely state the facts: the durban package covers some 15% of global emissions in total, and at least the usa, russia, japan and canada will not participate in any second commitment period in kyoto.
if we are to take the fight against climate change seriously, we must face up to the facts and realise that we urgently need something more effective and comprehensive.
ironically, the very people who fear the catastrophic effects of climate change the most are the first to deny the perceived inefficiency of current measures and are unwilling to update their attitudes.
indeed, economy, trade, investment, energy and security matter for both partners.
it is therefore important to agree on the safe use of information and digital technologies and on sustainable and reliable information services and related infrastructures, and also to seek common action models at european level.
mr president, climate change has an impact on security, peace and stability in the world.
it is unfortunate that climate change is being overshadowed by the economic crisis.
the effects of climate change are often dramatic.
we have to be prepared for climate change.
communities affected by climate change need to be helped to prepare for and adapt to changing living conditions.
once again, the most vulnerable victims of climate change are women and children, who need special attention.
the conservation of fish stocks and sustainable fishing are ultimately the responsibility of each of us.
one reason for this is that most companies operate only in their home market and in an environment where intangible rights are not given much attention.
it is therefore important that the agreement also includes provisions on sustainable development.
the idea behind the financial transaction tax is to encourage the financial sector to contribute to the balance of payments created by the financial crisis and to encourage long-term sustainable investment solutions through taxation.
parliament has shown its budgetary backbone by calling for a balanced and sustainable eu budget.
europe and russia are not only intellectually rich but also trade partners, dependent on each other, particularly in the fields of raw materials and energy.
but europe must be critical of the brutal treatment of civil society in russia, although the crude realism will only come into play when winter weather reminds us all of our dependence on russian energy.
unfortunately, the absence of charges contributes to a climate of impunity and encourages further crime, and we must not allow that to happen.
the impunity of war criminals and human rights offenders creates a climate of impunity that encourages new crimes.