nothing is more important than to emerge from the crisis from above, namely through stronger european integration, and nothing is more important than to demonstrate to our fellow citizens that the euro will be a strong and sustainable currency, provided we do what we should have done since its creation, namely economic and political governance.
it is up to us to overcome the current financial crisis, the current crisis of confidence, to ensure for our children - and you said it - a future that is not only sustainable but above all a better future.
neither the absence of an optimal currency area nor the european market's overexposure to social and ecological dumping from low-cost countries are taken into account.
finally, we must combine this policy of fiscal stability with a genuine policy of sustainable growth and employment, so as not to be locked into a recessionary spiral.
we have made much less progress than we would have liked and we now know that there is very little chance that we will be able to achieve the two-point reduction in greenhouse gas emissions that we promised.
the oil and gas lobbies have also played a very harmful role and we can only worry that the next cop will be held in qatar, a country which is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases per capita in the world and which, moreover, deprives civil society, trade unions, ngos and women of their rights.
it's not just about protecting the climate.
you have succeeded in imposing the idea that there is a relevant framework for negotiations, but on the other hand we have not really started to stop climate change.
you have had, with the notable exception of poland, the support of the member states to defend this framework of negotiations, but you know, unfortunately, that you do not have the same consensus of the member states to implement an ambitious climate policy.
what i am proposing to you, madam commissioner, is that the dg clima, which you are heading, should contribute to europe's exit from the crisis, by showing how an ambitious climate policy could, very broadly, contribute to the exit from the crisis via energy efficiency, via energy savings, via renewable energies, via technological innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for too long europeans have produced waste with little or no concern for recycling it at the end of its life.
even today, too few european citizens have the reflex to treat their electrical and electronic waste.
today, only 33% - as we have already said - of waste electrical and electronic equipment is collected and treated properly.
i congratulate him on setting the target for each member state of collecting 85% of the waste electrical and electronic equipment generated in its territory by 2016. the commission has also proposed that the waste be disposed of in a waste disposal plant, which is a waste disposal plant.
i take this opportunity, mr president, to congratulate you on your election and to ask you to contribute to energy efficiency by trying to raise the temperature here and to use less air conditioning.
the chamber is cold and energy efficiency would require a different temperature control.
this has resulted in a compromise text that provides an excellent basis for strengthening the internal market for biocidal products while at the same time ensuring a high level of protection for humans and the environment.
having said this, i would like to make it clear that we regard the compromise text to be voted on during this plenary as an excellent basis, both for strengthening the internal market for biocidal products and for ensuring a high level of protection for humans and the environment.
it will ensure that we can develop safer products and use biocides efficiently to control the spread of harmful pests and germs, but it will also keep the most dangerous substances off the market, particularly those that cause cancer or fertility problems, and will also keep them out of the environment.
these inputs are sold to them, as a rule, by large international companies operating in a highly concentrated, non-transparent and non-competitive environment.
farmers must be supported by new agricultural development structures which will enable them to face the challenges ahead, whether environmental, such as global warming, or economic, such as market distortions caused, for example, by speculation.
the measures provided for in the reform of the cap, proposed by the commission and currently being discussed in parliament, can, if effectively implemented by the states, improve soil conservation, maintain agricultural biodiversity and reduce pollution of soil and groundwater.
it will help to boost farmers' incomes, contribute to europe's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reduce pollution of our water resources.
european agriculture consumes more energy than it produces.
we want the european union to invest heavily in energy-saving projects.
these should be based on several proposals: improving agricultural practices by making them more autonomous; reducing transport between producers and consumers; facilitating the establishment of short marketing routes and supporting local seasonal consumption; strengthening the autonomous production of energy on farms; rebalancing animal and plant production at the level of coherent production basins, by promoting agronomic practices such as crop rotation and grazing.
waste and collected water is also a potential source of fertiliser, provided that adequate measures are taken to ensure the effective separation of potentially hazardous substances.
finally, irrigation is essential in many areas of the european union where global warming is already being felt.
it is clear that this situation is not sustainable.
mr president, food waste is getting worse every year, while raw materials are becoming scarcer and malnutrition is spreading in europe.
i think it is necessary to look into the causes of waste in order to reduce it.
finally, while we are seeing progress in road safety and trade, this text also has an environmental impact.
it is essential to reach an international agreement to take account of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions from air transport.
it is essential that the european union has a say in negotiations with the international community on civil aviation, and in particular on sustainable development issues.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the first of which is our vision for a sustainable development of civil aviation.
the european parliament paves the way for the revision of the waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directive, which will allow consumers to return small equipment to retailers free of charge without the obligation to make a new purchase.
it is a big step for the environment and for the consumer.
the annual collection target of 4 kg per capita per member state shall be transformed into a collection level of 45% of weee placed on the market in the previous three years collected by 2016 and 65% in 2019. finally, the directive, while reducing the administrative burden on producers, who are financially responsible for waste management, changes the definition of producer to cover any entity placing equipment on the market.
we are now seeing all the limitations of our "short-termist" societies, which are also breathless, where hyperconsumption and disposable are king: the issue of waste treatment, recycling but also the obsolescence of everyday consumer products are at the heart of the problems we have to manage within our societies.
the directive we are adopting today concerns waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).
each european citizen generates an average of 17 to 20 kg of electronic waste per year!
after tough negotiations with the council, parliament can be satisfied with the ambitious targets it has just set for the whole of the european union in the area of electronic waste collection.
from 2016, most member states will have to collect 45 tonnes of electronic waste for every 100 tonnes of electronic products placed on the market in the previous three years.
only investment in recycling techniques and better collection of electronic waste will enable the european union to reduce its dependence on china, which has 95% of the raw materials needed for new technologies.
i voted in favour of this text which sets more ambitious targets for the recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
every year, 8.7 million tonnes of waste electrical and electronic equipment are dumped in the european union, but only 25% of this waste is collected and treated.
it is not unusual to find in this type of waste components which are particularly dangerous to health and the environment, and this situation calls for a change in the practices currently in force in our member states.
it is in this context that i have voted in favour of the compromise reached after many years of negotiations, which sets a target of 85% of waste to be collected by 2019. thus, despite the opposition of some companies complaining of a heavy burden, it is expected that large distributors will have to set up collection points for used phones and other small appliances to encourage consumers to recycle.
i welcome the adoption of the report on electronic waste and electronic equipment, which seals the agreement reached with the council of the european union at second reading.
the aim of this revision is to improve the operation of the waste collection and treatment chain.
thanks to this directive and the efforts made by the member states, the collection of waste will have to amount to 45% of the average weight of equipment sold in the territories of the member states each year.
the directive will also have an impact on people's daily lives, as it provides for the mandatory installation of collection points for small waste in shops selling electrical and electronic equipment.
combining new, more stringent objectives, flexibility, encouragement of the reuse of equipment and the obligation to have collection points for small waste, the florenz report is balanced.
the report proposes to set a separate collection target of 85% of waste electrical and electronic equipment by 2016. it insists that stringent ecodesign rules be set by the end of 2013 at the latest.
refrigerators, ovens, washing machines, irons, televisions, computers, telephones, compact fluorescent lamps - all these products are waste that we will have to recycle one day.
it is estimated that in 2005 more than eight million tonnes of electronic waste were produced in europe, or 20 kg per capita.
this total is expected to rise to 12.3 million tonnes by 2020. the european union had to fill the regulatory gaps that prevented a real management of this waste, in terms of collection, reprocessing, recycling or combating its illegal export.
the collection rate of electrical and electronic waste in eu countries will have to reach 45% of the volumes placed on the market within four years and 65% within seven years.
i voted in favour of this text which recasts a 2008 directive to set more ambitious targets for the recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).
this directive, although insufficient in itself, is a step in the right direction towards the objective of an ecological transformation of our society.
it is based on a triple choice: to produce sustainable equipment, to reuse as much as possible the materials of end-of-life products, and to involve local actors in this recycling.
the directive still needs to be implemented on the basis of specific criteria such as: the creation of 'convenient facilities, including public collection points, where households can deposit their waste at least free of charge'; the implementation by the member states of a minimum collection of 85% of waste electrical and electronic equipment; the provision by producers, free of charge, for each type of new eee placed on the market and within one year of the equipment being placed on the market, of information on preparation for re-use and treatment.
the ecological transition also involves this type of policy choice.
i voted in favour of the draft directive on the placing of biocidal products on the market, which provides for stricter controls to ensure that products do not pose a threat to humans, animals and the environment.
these substances, however effective, are dangerous to human health and the environment.
we adopted a regulation last wednesday by a very large majority which harmonises the european market for biocidal products and sets new deadlines for the evaluation of applications in order to better protect human health and the environment.
however, we must remain vigilant about new authorizations and renewals of granted exemptions: states will be able to make an exception in cases of absolute necessity... the regulation is a further step towards a more sustainable economy that respects consumers.
the adoption of this text shows how our knowledge of the environment and plant protection products is constantly evolving and therefore requires the regular review of european texts by the european parliament to ensure the placing on the market of products that are increasingly safe for our citizens.
the use of biocides is a major problem, since consumer protection and environmental protection are among the issues involved.
it also brings about a welcome harmonisation of existing rules which considerably increases consumer safety and environmental protection and eliminates distortions of competition within the internal market.
the report seeks to strike a balance between the use of such products where they can improve human health and the fight against their negative effects on the environment or health.
the protection of the environment and the improvement of our health are two of the main themes of this text.
specifically, for the competitiveness of european agriculture, it was essential to talk about the increase in the prices of agricultural inputs purchased over the last ten years in areas such as energy, equipment, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds and water.
finally, through this text, i support the european union's substantial investment in projects that promote sustainable agriculture.
this own-initiative report highlights the problems at the upstream end of agricultural production and focuses on the increase in prices of agricultural inputs over the last decade in areas such as energy, equipment, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds and water.
the text therefore calls for a rebalancing of the balance and the promotion of sustainable agriculture which respects the environment through limited imports and use of these inputs.
i have no illusions about the actual consideration of this report by the european institutions, but i believe it is moving in the right direction: that of social justice and the ecological transition.
as with the bové report, the aim is to defend the agricultural sector by allowing farmers to produce in a way which respects the environment and to make a living from it, and by facilitating access for consumers to all the necessary information.
my colleagues and i voted for the european earth observation programme gmes (global monitoring for environment and security) to be financed from the community budget.
it should be recalled that gmes is a state-of-the-art tool for environmental information, which will help to meet the environmental challenges of the 21st century, and that it is essential to continue its funding.
it is therefore essential that the gmes programme, a tool for earth observation to combat climate change and environmental degradation, be included in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and that galileo be able to benefit from long-term funding.
the european parliament does not intend to let the european commission financially disengage the eu, even though the gmes programme is essential for european citizens, as it will make it possible to anticipate storms, floods and land pollution better and to provide rapid relief to populations affected by a natural disaster.
it will enable the european union to reaffirm its support for the flagship projects of our industrial policy (galileo, gmes), whose sustainable financing is being questioned by the european commission.
and thus to combat the consequences of climate change more effectively.
i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to halve food waste by 2025 and to avoid food waste.
for example, the european parliament has called on the european commission to encourage measures to reduce upstream food waste, such as promotional sales of damaged or expired products, etc.
the european aid to the most deprived programme is helping 13 million people in need and food waste must therefore not only be reduced but also used to benefit those 13 million europeans who are in dire need of it.
especially since food waste in the eu is estimated at 89 million tonnes per year (or 179 kg per capita), which is considerable.
if nothing is done, food waste will increase by almost 40 percent by 2020. this own-initiative report, which i supported, offers good ways of changing the situation.
the goal is to halve food waste by 2025 and thus improve access to food for the poor.
action is needed to reduce food waste in the eu, and this is our economic and social responsibility, as well as our environmental responsibility.
a coordinated community strategy will be needed to combat food waste in order to meet the needs of the 79 million citizens living below the poverty line and the 16 million who depend on food aid from charities.
that is why my colleagues and i are calling for urgent action to halve food waste by 2025 and improve access to food for the poor.
however, food waste is not limited to developed countries.
i voted in favour of this text because it is time for the european union to set itself ambitious targets to reduce food waste, which is scandalous from an ethical, economic and environmental point of view.
with 13 million people in europe receiving food aid and with some member states threatening to end the european programme for the poorest, it is important to control waste and reallocate the food stocks available to help the poorest of our citizens.
i voted in favour of the resolution tabled by my colleague mr caronna, calling on the european union to adopt a strategy to end food waste.
we must urgently address this situation where we waste almost 50% of our food every year while 79 million citizens live below the poverty line.
the fight against food waste is not only an economic but also a social and public health issue.
i welcome the european parliament's initiative, which should make us and, beyond that, the citizens, aware of a growing and worrying problem, food waste.
waste is an ethical, environmental and economic problem, even as many international forums are debating how to secure and secure the world's food supply and as part of the world's population suffers from limited access to food.
waste occurs throughout the food chain, from production to consumption.
this waste represents an environmental cost, as the production of unconsumed surplus food requires the use of energy and natural resources, and generates costs related to the treatment and disposal of this waste.
food waste is a global problem, affecting every link in the food chain, from the field to the consumer's plate.
the report identifies the causes of waste and points to many malfunctions, such as waste in the later stages of the food chain in industrialized countries due to an overabundance of food produced.
conversely, the report shows that waste in developing countries is in the early stages, due to the lack of advanced agricultural techniques, efficient transport systems and infrastructure.
we therefore call for action at european level to reduce food waste.
first of all, in order to establish a coordinated strategy, we call on the commission to analyse the whole food chain, to identify the sectors where there is the most waste and to provide targeted solutions.
it even calls for quantified targets for preventing food waste by 2014. these are all good ideas and it is regrettable that this text is purely declarative and does not propose anything binding.
the first and by far the most worrying impact of waste is humanitarian: despite producing enough food to feed the world's population, 25,000 people die every day from chronic malnutrition.
food waste occurs at all stages of the food chain, from harvest to consumption.
the environmental impact of these malfunctions is increased and affects both fisheries and energy resources and waste management.
we have the instruments to develop and implement an effective policy to reduce food waste.
there are two ways of restoring growth, one artificial and one-off, the other structural and therefore sustainable.
we must renegotiate this treaty on a basis which will allow for a real coordination of economic policies, including industrial projects to make our factories and our workers work, energy and environmental projects, the creation of eurobonds, which have unfortunately been forgotten or ignored, and financial regulation.
there can be no sustainable recovery of growth and employment without a clean-up of our public finances.
we must restart a virtuous spiral by coordinating our economic policies with major joint industrial projects, particularly in the fields of energy, the environment and the revival of major infrastructures.
environmental petitions are the majority and waste is a major concern of our citizens.
only six member states have transposed the waste framework directive in time.
this report is a wake-up call to the states, but the european commission must also play its part and check that the waste directives are being properly applied.
if no one plays along, we will continue to waste time and money on verification and counter-verification procedures that could take years.
as the rapporteur points out, this is all the more necessary when considering that transnational challenges (such as climate change, global regulatory issues, access to raw materials, terrorism, sustainable development, etc.)
brazil, russia, india, china and south africa (brics) have become key global actors with whom the eu needs to develop a constructive partnership, based on shared values, in order to address transnational challenges such as climate change, access to raw materials and rare earths, terrorism, and sustainable development.
we can no longer afford to adopt unilateral approaches, when the challenges we face (energy, sustainable development, food, security, etc.)
i supported this report on budgetary control of eu humanitarian aid managed by echo, as it highlights the need to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of echo's control, monitoring and oversight system, and stresses the importance of ensuring the sustainability and complementarity of humanitarian action, drawing in particular lessons from the disasters in haiti and pakistan.
the report also stresses the need to ensure the sustainability, coherence and complementarity of humanitarian action, which are key objectives of eu development policy.
another problem is that it is known that the consumer generally expects that a reduction in the sugar content will lead to a reduction in the energy value.
the text would have allowed the claim 'reduced fat/sugar' even if the energy value of the product remained the same as that of a similar product.
we urge the iranian authorities to respond favourably to the offer of negotiation and to cooperate with the international atomic energy agency (iaea).
there is no denying that iran's belligerent rhetoric and its pursuit of nuclear energy is a threat to world peace, especially in a highly unstable region.
judging from the petitions we have received, citizens of the european union are concerned about the inability of member states to have effective and sustainable waste management policies.
it is also about communicating more about the merits of selective sorting, and making it clear that proper waste management is expensive but can attract investment and create jobs.
following the adoption of the waste framework directive in 2008, citizens are increasingly denouncing the poor management of waste in europe.
they have a right to expect public authorities to provide public services which respect their health and the environment.
the manifest failure of some member states to manage their waste, and in particular their toxic waste, has led to a considerable increase in the number of petitions on this subject.
waste management is a major political and social problem; in the case of landfilling, the monitoring and control system is insufficient to prevent the contamination of household waste by toxic waste.
let us develop these policies as far in advance as possible by improving sorting, collection and recycling to promote the recovery of waste and ensure an effective traceability system for toxic waste.
the awareness of citizens is real, and the public authorities must respond by significantly improving waste management.
waste is a major concern for our citizens.
but the european commission must also play its part and ensure that the waste directive is properly applied.
it is worrying to see that the states do not seem to be in control of the waste management situation, only 6 member states have transposed the framework directive on waste in time, and a large number of complaints received by the committee on petitions on the subject sometimes show the lack of transparency in the choice of landfill sites.
the main concern of the european citizens who petitioned the european parliament is the environment, and in particular the implementation by the member states of the waste management directive.
following several fact-finding visits to ireland, italy, france and spain, the epp group supported the idea of an own-initiative report on the incorrect implementation of eu legislation by member states and inappropriate waste management facilities.
the text also calls on the member states to speed up the transposition of the framework directive on waste management into national law.
this report reminds member states of their obligation to respect the waste hierarchy in their waste management.
i regret, however, that this text is too lenient with waste incineration, a highly polluting technique which benefits large industrial groups at the expense of reuse, recycling and renewable energy.
it also supports the privatisation of waste management in europe, which explains the prevalence of this harmful technique.
it is high time that ecological planning was introduced, which would put aside the law of the market and organise compliance with the priorities imposed by the general interest.
between 2004 and 2010, 114 petitions were filed for infringements of the waste management directive - more than ten of them from france - representing the majority of petitions on environmental issues, which are themselves the main source of petitions.
waste management is a matter of direct concern to us; the shortcomings of the system - lack of awareness, administrative capacity and financial resources in particular - must therefore be addressed as quickly and as effectively as possible.
the use of cohesion funds and direct financing by the european investment bank is indeed necessary, as is the strengthening of the role of the european environment agency.
the vote on this report, which i supported, sends a strong signal for a strong eu initiative on waste management.
the european legislative framework is relevant, but leaves out a number of important issues, such as innovative methods of recovery, reuse, recycling and disposal of waste.
i believe that this is a priority issue, both for its consequences for human health and the well-being of europeans, but also for the environment and sustainable development.
i asked the commission about the efforts to be made to reduce and recover waste from consumer packaging and about the need to eliminate food waste, which is a major source of waste and an imperative of solidarity with the poorest citizens.
i therefore call again on the commission to make strong proposals for sustainable waste management throughout the supply chain.
the un has declared 2012 international year of sustainable energy for all , which provides an important opportunity for action even as universal access to energy by 2030 is a key objective announced by the un secretary-general.
i therefore welcome the endorsement of the neuser report on eu development cooperation towards the goal of universal access to energy by 2030. the aim is to give access to modern energy services to populations that were previously deprived of them.
it also includes a focus on renewable energy, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and a decentralised energy strategy to ensure energy access to remote areas.
this is yet another sign that the necessary reorientation of global energy trends is under way.
finally, i fully support this project also because it is closely linked to action to combat climate change.
energy is a european and even a global field par excellence: for reasons of resources, supply and efficiency, energy policy must be developed on a large scale.
after durban last december, the rio+20 summit, to be held next june, is an opportunity to link development cooperation and energy issues in a concrete way: to propose objectives on ways of reducing energy poverty but also a roadmap to achieve universal access to energy, these are the global issues.
however, these must be combined with local energy strategies: we must think of local production, as it allows both to reduce costs and to promote the combination of different production methods.
in this connection, i welcome the adoption of paragraph 37 which 'calls on the commission and the member states not to finance or encourage in any way the use of nuclear energy in developing countries', considering the serious concerns raised by nuclear energy and the fact that we must embark on the transition through an energy mix.
i voted in favour of this report because it is an incentive for the european union to move towards genuine universal access to energy, but not just any energy: renewable energy, in particular by reducing our dependence on fossil fuels.
decentralized energy, to ensure access to energy in rural areas.
small-scale energy, denouncing large infrastructures such as the belo monte dam that have unsustainable social and environmental impacts.
we can also welcome the fact that the european right, which had tried in the committee on development to get funding from the commission and the member states or to encourage the use of nuclear energy in developing countries, failed in plenary.
the objective of 'universal access to energy by 2030' was launched under the mdgs.
i voted against amendment no 37, which calls on the member states and the commission not to finance or encourage the use of nuclear energy in developing countries.
the report calls on the commission and the member states to work towards universal access to energy by 2030 and to fight energy poverty in general.
in its concern to promote and enable access to energy in developing countries insofar as this access contributes to the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), it seemed important to me that the european parliament respond to the united nations general assembly's proclamation of 2012 as the 'international year of sustainable energy for all'.
however, mr neuser's report, which is very politically oriented, denies the right of developing countries to choose their energy policy freely by calling on 'the commission and the member states not to finance or encourage in any way the use of nuclear energy in developing countries'.
i therefore voted against this paragraph, which imposes choices on developing countries by limiting their sources of energy.
nuclear power is a clean energy source, and one that could provide millions of citizens in developing countries with access to basic services such as electricity.
the objective of universal access to energy by 2030 was launched under the mdgs.
in developing countries, sustainable access to energy for the poor faces several obstacles, including the inability of the poorest to pay for services, investment costs, connection costs, and the lack of domestic capacity to manufacture the necessary energy generation equipment and spare parts.
the report underlines that, although none of the mdgs is specifically energy-related, access to modern and sustainable energy services for all is a prerequisite for the achievement of the mdgs.
energy should therefore be placed at the forefront of the debate on poverty eradication through the establishment of a specific programme focusing on energy and development within the framework of the european union's development cooperation policy.
convinced that the fight against poverty also requires the development of access to energy, i supported the report on eu development cooperation towards the goal of universal access to energy by 2030, launched by un secretary-general ban ki-moon.
both the commission and the member states should support the development of public-private partnerships in the energy sector and the transfer of technologies - particularly those with high energy efficiency - between the southern partner countries and between europe and the south.
the text rightly reaffirms that the responsibility for access to universal services, and in particular the provision of affordable energy for poor and remote populations, lies with the state.
we therefore ask the commission to publish a communication on development cooperation in the field of universal access to energy later this year and to report annually on progress made in the field of universal access to energy.
according to the international energy agency, about 1.3 billion people do not have access to electricity.
the united nations general assembly has therefore designated 2012 as the year of sustainable energy for all and has set itself the objective of universal access to energy by 2030. i supported this report because access to modern energy services is essential to the exercise of certain fundamental economic, social and cultural rights.
the challenge for the european union is to reconcile access to energy for developing countries with respect for the environment.
these countries have huge renewable energy potential which we need to tap into by providing sustainable and affordable energy services.
in addition to the environmental dimension, local energy will enable poor and rural populations not served by conventional distribution networks to benefit from energy services.
access to modern energy sources is a fundamental prerequisite for poverty reduction as it affects many aspects of the lives and livelihoods of the people and communities concerned.
in the context of energy access in developing countries, i believe that the emphasis should be on renewable energy sources, as was proposed at the grenelle de l'environnement in france.
i therefore voted to maintain paragraph 37 in the report which calls on the commission and the member states not to finance or encourage in any way the use of nuclear energy in developing countries, given the serious concerns raised by this source of energy in terms of safety and sustainability.
the european parliament today adopted a report on the development policy launched by the un in september 2010, on 'universal access to energy by 2030'.
this objective is based on the idea that access to energy services is a fundamental prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable human development.
i voted for this report which sets out positive principles for the management of the two main eu cooperation mechanisms for access to energy: the european development fund and the eu energy facility.
in addition, in this text the european parliament is in fact admitting the failure of the commercial approach in the energy field for developing countries.
the text states that 'the lessons of the past should be learned: history shows that the success of energy access strategies depends on a strong government commitment and investment of public funds'.
a few references to the fight against tax evasion and double taxation distortions can only persuade me to refuse to support such a report, especially since one even dares to speak of 'social welfare', but it is worth saying that there is no reference to the necessary tax harmonization from above, nor to the need for social convergence, nor even to the necessary support for industrial sectors and smes, and even less to the rejection of any social or environmental dumping.
the amount of these fines can sometimes have very damaging consequences for the sustainability of european enterprises.
it is also clear that too little is being done to address the real scandal of food waste.
i am thinking here of all the waste that is thrown away every day by supermarkets, when we know that there are associations that do not have enough food to distribute it at the moment.
it is also time to react by promoting a common energy policy.
the work on education and training must be a priority when it is both the basic condition for the employability of our young people and an investment in the future, a guarantee of our ability to maintain dynamic and sustainable development.
this management plan was adopted by parliament in november 2010 to ensure sustainable management of the stock.
this is a waste of time and money, as the administrative costs of these disparities are estimated at eur 69 million per year.
after 16 years of systematic rejection by the green group of fisheries agreements with unsustainable environmental and social consequences, we have decided to take each case on a case-by-case basis.
on the other hand, the agreement does not provide a satisfactory answer to the environmental and social consequences, especially for small-scale fishermen.
so let us call on the council to take its responsibilities to make this fund sustainable in the next multiannual financial framework.
only a truly sustainable cap will ensure that fewer europeans will need food aid in the future.
the social, environmental and economic impacts have not been assessed by the european commission.
we have never seen an agreement go through without knowing the social, economic and environmental impacts.
the european commission must produce concrete and serious impact studies on the economic, social, environmental and budgetary consequences of the agreements it negotiates.
we know that if you had had to negotiate this text yourself, it would have been different, because you are negotiating the cap and you know that it is difficult to impose environmental constraints on european farmers when texts such as the one proposed to us do not mention this issue.
but i'm going back to what i was saying about the environment.
the model we are proposing to the moroccans, i say with conviction, is not a sustainable model.
i believe that we must defend morocco, we must defend democracy in morocco, but we must also be careful about the balance we propose on the environmental, social and economic levels.
you also mentioned the impact on the environment, particularly with regard to water consumption.
the quotas remain unchanged, moroccan products will not have access to the european market during the main seasons for the sale of european products and socioeconomic and environmental criteria will have to be met by moroccans.
on the g20 and the g8, the mexican presidency has identified the following priorities for the summit: economic stabilisation and structural reforms as foundations for growth and employment; strengthening the financial system and fostering financial inclusion to promote economic growth; improving the international financial architecture in an interconnected world; enhancing food security and addressing commodity price volatility; promoting sustainable development, green growth and the fight against climate change.
the un rio+20 conference: at this conference it is an important priority for the danish presidency that we should promote a strengthened global institutional framework for sustainable development and advance work on global and coherent post-2015 goals for sustainable development.
we need to tackle these high levels of youth unemployment and we need to do so in a sustainable manner.
parliament endorsed the commission's analysis that efforts at national and union level should focus on the following five priorities: to ensure differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, with the objectives of economic recovery and job creation; ensuring the long-term financing of the real economy; promoting sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment; combat unemployment and take measures to deal with the social consequences of the crisis; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and measures.
member states should give priority, both in terms of expenditure and budget revenue, to growth-friendly policies, in particular in the fields of education, research and innovation, infrastructure and energy, and to ensuring the efficiency of such expenditure and revenue.
thirdly, the promotion of sustainable growth requires an increase in the competitiveness of investment.
- mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, it is five years since the spring european council was held in a climate of crisis.
this is the fifth european council in a climate of crisis and where, clearly, the logic is being pursued that austerity will lead to growth.
our role as parliamentarians must therefore be exercised to the full and it is our responsibility to demand that the same energy devoted to taking strong economic governance measures should also be devoted to ambitious, effective and binding social governance measures.
we must continue: the social consequences of the crisis are too serious to spare all the energy and resources at our disposal.
i voted in favour of the berès report on the guidelines for the employment policy of the european union for 2020. the europe 2020 strategy helps to steer the european union's economic system towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with a high level of social cohesion and productivity.
in the context of its europe 2020 strategy, the union has established a list of priorities and joint initiatives to promote smart, sustainable and job-rich growth.
it is 'to make the europe 2020 strategy a reality', 'to boost europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness', 'to make the labour market able to react quickly to economic developments', 'to respect the stability and growth pact' and 'to give member states clear guidance on the preparation of their national reform programmes'.
finally, i believe that this programme is also an instrument to combat food waste.
now our new battle, in which i want to fully engage, is to ensure the long-term sustainability of this important solidarity programme by guaranteeing its funding beyond 2013.
in writing.
today it is used for television, tomorrow it will be used to extend and make much more efficient our wireless broadband internet access, starting on 1 january 2013. this scarce resource is a driver of economic progress for citizens, as strategic planning and harmonisation of spectrum use will be used in many areas, including shipping, health, the environment and defence.
access to radio spectrum is essential for a wide range of activities from telephony and broadband to transport, energy, research and development and space applications.
eurobonds therefore provide a sustainable alternative to the drastic austerity measures imposed on citizens and provide a common european response to the sovereign debt crisis affecting states and their populations.
it is our responsibility to demand that the same energy that is used to take strong economic measures is also used to take ambitious and effective social measures.
in the report, parliament also called on the council to support sustainable job creation through investment and tax reform, to improve the quality and rate of employment and the conditions for an increased rate of activity, to combat youth unemployment and poverty and social exclusion.
it suggests assessing the social impact of economic policy instruments in the context of the european semester and calls for effective, socially fair and sustainable reform of pension and social security systems and growth-friendly fiscal policies.
finally, the resolution calls on the european commission to convert the annual growth survey into 'annual guidelines for sustainable growth' in 2013 and to present it in a form that allows the european parliament to table amendments.
the commission is therefore asked to convert this annual growth review into annual guidelines for sustainable growth in 2013, in a form that allows parliament to play its part.
the same political choices are leading european countries into economic recession and social regression, deepening social inequalities, impoverishing a growing number of people and violating fundamental rights, including social and environmental rights.
i feel that it is my duty not to waste it but to cultivate this raw material and so i feel that i must exercise carefully this need to persuade the citizens, but on the basis of substantive arguments, and not only and not so much on the basis of european constraints.
i hope that many countries will follow your example, because to restore growth, it is necessary to restore a favourable political and economic climate.
the temptation is great for some to confuse public spending with investment, as you have said, but it is only through investment that we will achieve sustainable growth.
on behalf of the group of the european united left, we put to you a few proposals for this growth and employment: the introduction of a european minimum wage and a minimum income, as voted by this parliament; the defence of public social security by the invention of a system of occupational social security for work in europe; the end of social and fiscal dumping; the taxation of capital at the same level as labour; a real tax on financial transactions; a european alliance against unequal free trade with the introduction of visas, border protection in line with social and environmental progress; the commission has also proposed a programme of major works and the launching of a new industrial and agricultural policy; the development of research, innovation and education.
this could be achieved by creating a fund for human, social and ecological development, in place of the european stability mechanism, in conjunction with the european central bank, which should be able to buy all or part of the debts of the states which are currently in difficulty and grant credits at 1% directly to the states.
it is a real ambition to ensure our growth, far beyond the aspects mentioned by my colleague mr glante, whether technological aspects or environmental aspects.
gmes must therefore be consolidated and must, to do so, benefit from the sustainability and continuity of the european budgetary framework.
however, a report by the european association of young entrepreneurs presented on 14 february overturns the financial, institutional and environmental arguments put forward by critics.
similarly, the estimated carbon footprint of 19 000 tonnes of co2 is four times higher than the actual figure of 4 199 tonnes.
i note that my colleagues are not disarming on the subject of the siege of strasbourg and that this is a matter of politics rather than really budgetary or environmental issues.
i have always fought for the cfp not to be conditioned solely by environmental concerns.
environmental sustainability - improving the level of fish stocks - is a prerequisite for the economic and social sustainability of the sector.
the reform of the common fisheries policy must therefore ensure that stocks are fished in a sustainable way to ensure the sustainability of the sector and the future of coastal communities.
the resolution calls for the establishment of a sustainable fisheries sector, food and employment security and the maintenance of vibrant fishing communities.
the resolution also calls for the preservation of marine biodiversity, which is itself a public good, and for the recognition of the seas - which cover more than two thirds of the surface of our planet - as a resource that plays a crucial role in the reproduction of other natural resources.
the commission should have also undertaken an impact study on the economic, social and environmental consequences before concluding this agreement and not afterwards.
calls on the commission to promote the equivalence of measures and controls between morocco and the union in the field of environmental and food safety standards; we call on morocco to improve its water management.
finally, it is not acceptable that this agreement should be presented even though the results of the impact study on the economic, social and environmental consequences are not known.
in agriculture, as in other areas, we must, however, demand reciprocity in accordance with european health and environmental standards.
i would also like to welcome the efforts made by the kingdom of morocco to improve its labour law, to meet certain environmental constraints and to accompany the profound change in its agriculture with the 'green morocco' plan.
however, the almost saturated situation of the european vegetable market, the situation of our farmers hit hard by the crisis and their fears of unfair competition, social dumping and environmental dumping do not allow me to vote for this agreement.
i would also like to stress that i voted in favour of keeping in this text the reference to the tangible and sustainable implementation of the un high commissioner's resolution on sexual orientation and gender identity.
the european global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme provides state-of-the-art services - the most advanced in the world today - in the fields of environment, civil protection, crisis management and mobility, via databases.
we cannot solve our energy and competitiveness problems, our social comfort and global warming without addressing all the issues that are necessary for the operation of nuclear power stations around the world, including maximum safety.
improving the business environment, cutting red tape and paperwork thanks to digital public administration.
the aim is to put the greek economy back on a sustainable footing, both in terms of debt sustainability and competitiveness.
as i have said before in this parliament, i expect heads of state and government to focus not just on short-term crisis management, but also on growth: smart, sustainable, inclusive growth, which is the key to job creation and the future prosperity of europe.
as you will have seen from my letter, we have agreed to concentrate on a number of key priorities: improving youth employment, promoting a more business-friendly environment, providing liquidity to smes and sweeping away barriers to the absorption of structural funds.
but in a more challenging environment, we need a more competitive europe that delivers stability and growth through responsibility and solidarity.
the second lesson to be drawn from the crisis is the importance to be attached to the recovery of sustainable growth and job-creating growth.
let us be clear: this is not a question of new expenditure, of additional budgets, but of channelling the funds already available towards sustainable investments.
take the example of energy.
we must act - and you quoted the figures, that is huge - in creating jobs, while the completion of the single market and the sanctioning of the investment budget must generate sustainable growth and jobs.
i think this whole golden rule thing where we adopt a triple golden rule -- financial, social and environmental -- makes sense.
i am not against a financial golden rule, but if we do not accompany it with a social golden rule and an environmental golden rule, we are not up to what we need to do for future generations.
what i am asking for is that with a substantial european budget - mr daul is right - with own resources, with the european investment bank, we should move towards a sustainable and lasting economic recovery with the green economy.
there will be more growth if you think first of jobs, common industrial strategies, the european energy community, the concrete fight against tax evasion, instead of waiting for months and months before negotiating and denouncing the unilateral strategies of some member states.
by prioritising social and environmental impacts over profits, cooperatives are central to the social economy.
the relevance of these companies has been proven by their strong sustainability and resilience during the financial crisis.
these measures must be accompanied by increased public investment in higher education, in order to reconnect with sustainable growth based on high-level skills and knowledge and the promotion of partnerships between universities and business.
if we develop statistics using more standardised, accurate and reliable methods, the union's policies will be better able to respond to the economic, social and environmental realities of our daily lives.
for member states which finance the bulk of the budget, the level of payment appropriations is no longer sustainable.
if we want to continue fishing under the flags of the member states of the union, we must therefore urgently redirect the european fund towards production and employment, towards sustainable fishing, towards safety and towards the search for engines that use less fuel.
as my colleague from the european people's party alain lamassoure points out, it is imperative that efforts be made to 'promote a long-term and sustainable industrial policy' by providing support to smes.
there is no end in sight to the waste and the patronage, nor to the many unnecessary and costly agencies.
this text, which refers directly to the financing of the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter) and which is grossly lacking in environmental orientations, is unacceptable.
as the main importer of cocoa beans, the european union has a major responsibility in the fight against child labour, particularly in the cocoa sector, in order to establish a sustainable cocoa supply chain in which children do not intervene.
finally, more generally, all trade agreements should include provisions to reduce poverty and promote decent work and safe working conditions, and include legally binding clauses on respect for human rights, social and environmental standards, with penalties for breaches.
the resolution will also strengthen the role of the international cocoa organization (icco), a structure that provides data on the world market and encourages cooperation between its member countries, and make global cocoa trade more equitable and sustainable.
while aimed at strengthening social and environmental responsibility, the new agreement does not explicitly address the problem of child labour, which is discussed in another report.
i supported this report, which aims to increase the transparency and sustainability of a sector that provides livelihoods for 50 million people around the world.
the agreement adopted today replaces and improves the agreement in place since 2001. i supported its adoption because it will increase the transparency and sustainability of the sector.
it bears a large share of responsibility in improving the sustainability of the cocoa sector.
it promotes international cooperation, increases transparency in the sector and ultimately ensures a sustainable future for the sector.
as a member of the parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i felt it was essential to develop a targeted european strategy to combat this disease.
extreme poverty, rampant corruption, poor governance have created an enabling environment for extremist groups and allow them to recruit very easily from among the unemployed nigerian youth.
moreover, the nigerian authorities, as well as the multinational oil companies, must put a swift end to the current pollution and address the damage that oil pollution is causing to the environment and which is particularly harmful to the local population.
another often overlooked fact is that the waters off the horn of africa have become a veritable dumping ground for toxic waste, all kinds of waste that is also radioactive and is being dumped in violation of international law.
mr president, commissioner, you mentioned the european regulations on co2 emissions from cars.
and they leave citizens around the world facing climate change.
we have both governments that can't change the software, that can't imagine an economic model that is anything other than household debt, state debt and debt to the climate or the planet.
nuclear power, carbon sequestration, oil sands, shale gas are all trying to take advantage of this political indecision.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to return to what my colleague, mrs gardini, said because i have to say that mr davies' report was voted on in our committee on the environment, public health and food safety by a very small majority.
so a roadmap for 2050, yes, okay, but still we must not touch what was voted in the energy-climate package for the years 2013-2020. an amendment to the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme before it is fully implemented, its full implementation in 2013, could be perceived by market operators as a chronic risk of legal instability.
that would lead to a discrediting of the carbon market and, to me, it is a bad solution to a real problem.
some people complain that the price of carbon is too low.
in the past, when this system was being set up, the fear was that the price of carbon would skyrocket.
let us be very careful not to undermine the competitiveness of our industries - i am thinking of airlines, this has already been said - and i also quote china, which has frozen its purchases of airbus in protest against the introduction of the new european tax on carbon dioxide emissions from the aviation sector.
i am particularly concerned that what seemed to be an environmental solution must not become a potential source of trade conflict.
mr president, commissioner, allow me a few seconds to express my approval of the road map as presented to us by mr davies and as we have supported in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
this brings together all users and stakeholders to address all pressures on the water environment in the whole river basin, beyond administrative boundaries.
we also have to look ahead at the vulnerability of the water environment to climate change and ensure that adaptation to climate change is taken into account in our water policies.
the commission presented at the world water forum a unique eu web-based platform: the european climate adaptation platform, which is a concrete solution, focusing also on water issues like drought and flooding.
the blueprint should, subject to an impact assessment, suggest actions in seven specific areas: on land use; on economic incentives to propose recommendations on how water pricing can reflect the true cost of water use and pollution; on water efficiency targets, to provide tools to develop indicative water efficiency targets – at eu, member state, river basin and sectoral levels; on innovation, the blueprint will be complemented by a water innovation partnership with stakeholders and the private sector.
secondly, water management by catchment areas and the problem of pollution at the source must be addressed upstream and not downstream.
when we consider that 88% of diseases worldwide are caused by the consumption of unsafe water, poor hygiene or inadequate sanitation, we should really invest in treatment, especially of industrial waste and waste water that is dumped untreated in nature.
this still represents 70% of the waste water.
the last point concerns water and energy.
but you know that the problem of shale gas management can lead to problems of pollution of the seabed, which is why the groundwater framework directive is important, where it has been found in canada or the united states that there could be pollution.
last year, the european commission adopted a 'roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050' with the objective of reducing co2 emissions by 80% by 2050. to achieve this, several action plans in different areas (transport, energy, climate change, etc.)
this report focuses on the shortcomings of the emissions trading system (ets) and on energy efficiency.
i have been particularly invested in the roadmap to a low-carbon economy by 2050 .
in this respect, the roadmap recommends sectoral strategies in transport, electricity and agriculture, aimed at gradually reducing co2 emissions while maintaining a globally competitive economy.
as so often, the left wanted to do more for the climate without considering the economic realities.
it called for the emissions trading system to be revised to make it even more binding.
the transition to a low-carbon economy is an absolute and unavoidable necessity in europe today; it is a big company that demands ambitious goals in all areas.
the report by our colleague chris davies has the merit of covering a very wide range of issues: from energy efficiency to cap reform, from the quota trading system to smart energy networks and rail corridors, there is no shortage of areas of action to ensure that by 2050 we are firmly and definitively committed to a low-carbon economy.
i have abstained, however, not because i disagree with the substance of the matter, but because i think we must not make nuclear energy appear to be green energy!
by including it in the list of decarbonised energy sources, along with renewable energy sources, we are denying its dangers and the many risks it entails.
nuclear power is nothing more than a transitional energy source, it is by no means an energy source for the future!
we need to promote a low-carbon economy, and take all measures to follow the roadmap to reduce co2 by at least 40% by 2030, 60% by 2040 and 80% by 2050. the emissions trading system needs to be improved and the transport and agricultural sectors must also be involved in this effort to reduce emissions.
member states should be encouraged to take legislative measures to include air transport emissions in the ets without succumbing to commercial pressure from third countries opposed to the ets.
the message that the european parliament wants to convey by adopting this report is that we are all ready to endorse the commission's major long-term commitments on climate policy.
i am clearly in favour of strong eu ambition and want parliament to send a positive signal on climate.
i cannot, however, legitimise instruments which are not good for climate, social and economic policy.
that is why i did not vote in favour of this road map which mentions nuclear energy as an instrument for moving towards a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050.
in writing.
the european parliament approved on thursday 15 march 2012 the roadmap to a low-carbon economy by 2050. with this text, the european union sets out its long-term vision and continues its reflection on the outlines of a green economy.
i welcome the adoption of this report which will give greater visibility to economic and institutional actors for the coming decades with a step-by-step approach for 2030, 2040 and 2050. it is true that profound differences have emerged about the functioning of the ets, since the carbon price is currently very low.
the proposal of the parliamentary left to artificially inflate the price of a tonne of carbon was not acceptable because it does not take account of the particularly difficult economic and social context of recent years.
i voted in favour of this report, which sets out an ambitious and realistic roadmap for reconciling competitiveness and the fight against global warming.
europe is an example in decarbonising the economy, but it cannot act alone: emissions generated by one country affect all of humanity.
there is no barrier to stop pollution and there is an urgent need for action on a global scale.
many areas are involved: energy, transport, industry, housing, agriculture.
the fight against global warming requires reducing greenhouse gas emissions, an energy transition to phase out fossil fuels and more responsible behaviour.
it will not be done in a few years, but i believe that we need sustained efforts in the long term, because it would cost us more to wait and we cannot compromise when it comes to protecting our planet and our environment.
i believe that we need to focus on innovation and research to produce alternative energy, and to support businesses and households in this crusade to fight global warming.
on the sidelines of the 6th world water forum, we discussed water-related issues and called for sustainable solutions, including access to clean water.
water-related challenges (climate change, growing demand for energy and agricultural products, etc.)
secondly, water management by catchment areas and the problem of pollution at source must be addressed.
access to water in sufficient quantity and quality is a major environmental, health and economic issue.
it advocates local as well as global solutions, as the issue concerns farmers in our developed countries as well as citizens in developing countries, and places this issue within the larger issue of climate change.
water is a development issue, an ecological issue, and a health and food security issue in a context of population growth and climate change.
we need to develop sustainable water management by fighting waste, by investing in innovation and green technologies.
in the collective consciousness, water needs to be given the same recognition as climate change.
climate change may lead to a decline in the quantity and quality of available water, including drinking water, as well as an increase in the frequency and intensity of floods and droughts.
deforestation, population growth and climate change are putting increasing pressure on the availability and quality of water resources, and water infrastructure systems are often inadequate in developing countries and obsolete in developed countries.
the water stress faced by our farmers, the pollution of rivers and coastal areas are issues that the eu must address.
- mr president, the committee on the internal market was also asked for its opinion and wanted to contribute to this reflection on the definition of more responsible corporate governance, which promotes sustainable growth in the internal market, at the service of the real economy.
what a waste of energy!
they are also called upon to make their pricing practices more transparent and to indicate the environmental impact of travel on the air ticket.
it is also necessary to ensure that passengers have complete, comprehensible and accessible information, including on co2 emissions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
excise duties are indirect taxes on the consumption of specific products (alcoholic beverages, manufactured tobacco and energy products).
i therefore naturally voted in favour of the new administrative cooperation rules which should enable the member states to speed up the collection and recovery of excise duties on products such as alcohol, tobacco and energy products and to improve the control of their revenues.
they amounted to eur 51.5 million in 2010. finally, i am pleased to note that the energy consumption of parliament's seat in strasbourg has fallen by 74% between 2006 and 2010. these are the reasons why i support the seat of parliament in strasbourg.
i also believe it is essential to accompany the establishment of an adequate control system to assess the effectiveness of the funding provided and the sustainability of the actions financed.
secondly, turkey is a country essential to the security and prosperity of the eu (essential energy corridor for the oil and gas resources of the caucasus and the caspian, geographical proximity to iraq).
it is also important that relations with the european union remain sustainable.
corporate governance, a subject which is dear to me, was the subject of a report aimed at enhancing transparency and the consideration of social, ethical and environmental concerns within companies.
but the report also acknowledges the efforts made to address economic and social imbalances in disadvantaged regions and to combat climate change.
this last point is particularly important to me because as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am committed to sustainable investment by small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union.
the eu's outermost regions suffer from serious economic handicaps, due to their small size, remoteness and difficult terrain and climate.
the teixeira own-initiative report, which i supported, stresses the need to analyse, with regard to future cohesion policy in the ors, how these regions can achieve the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, despite their permanent characteristics and constraints, in particular their remoteness from the heart of europe.
in this resolution, which i supported, we also insist on the inclusion of the specific features of the ors in all the european union's policies: fisheries and maritime policy, transport, the environment, etc.
the outermost regions (ors) of the european union are characterised by remoteness, insularity, difficult terrain and climate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the proposals on "digital diplomacy" and "sustainable democracy" may leave us with a hint of caution, to say the least.
but many issues, including energy, remain unresolved.
azerbaijan is in a position to contribute to the solution of the problems related to the eu's energy security.
this growth is not going to be decreed, but we can create the conditions for the return of sustainable growth.
i also welcome the plan presented by the commission to put the greek economy and public finances on a sustainable path and to guarantee the financial stability of the country and of the euro area as a whole.
this unbridled speculation has created a climate of mistrust, destabilised the whole continent and undermined investor confidence.
with spain now in the sights of the markets, it is imperative to continue to clean up public finances in order to restore the confidence that is essential for a sustainable recovery of economic activity.
in addition to the efforts to improve public accounts, which i stress is an essential condition for building sustainable growth, we must carry out strong reforms capable of boosting the recovery.
in fact, against the free choice of the argentine government, against the national sovereignty of the argentine people, you are defending the interests of a private oil company, repsol, whose capital is more than half in the hands of foreign owners and which, together with its subsidiary ypf, makes considerable profits in argentina, pays nearly 16 billion in dividends to its shareholders and organises tax evasion to avoid paying taxes, all this at the expense of argentine workers and local people, disregarding indigenous peoples and the environment.
the greek state is under threat of heavy fines - estimated by some to be more than one billion euros - from its dealers for delays, but also from the european union for non-compliance with certain directives, including environmental ones.
how can we counteract the drive to control energy consumption, the chase after waste?
so if you needed to find money, i have a few clues, i'll give them to you quickly: we could have taken from the profits of the big oil companies, taken from the waste of public money, taken from the profits of the big car groups and also, why not, taken from the profits of the credit institutions that lend money to buy the cars.
i voted in favour of this agreement which will put in place a package of measures to combat illegal logging by monitoring the supply chain and promoting sustainable practices.
we need to ensure that small forestry companies operating on the national market are professional, profitable and sustainable.
i voted in favour of this agreement which will put in place a package of measures to combat illegal logging by monitoring the supply chain and promoting sustainable practices.
in the field of energy taxation, the european parliament has a consultative power.
another major topic of this plenary session was the taxation of energy products and electricity.
with this revision, the commission aims to align the energy taxation framework with the eu's energy efficiency and climate change objectives.
i am a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which is responsible for this text.
as such, i am committed on a daily basis to ensuring the best possible balance between achieving the european union's climate change objectives on the one hand and strengthening the competitiveness of our companies on the other.
using the austerity period as a justification for rejecting environmental measures, the conservatives in the european parliament decided to postpone indefinitely the commission's proposal to remove tax benefits on certain energy and electricity products such as diesel.
the majority of meps are therefore in favour of mechanisms that give a benefit to polluting fuels in the european energy taxation system.
i denounce this competition, manufactured by hand, between social measures and environmental measures.
i am committed to an ambitious environmental policy and i voted against mrs lulling's report.
i welcome the adoption of this report on the taxation system for energy products and electricity in the european union.
parliament has clearly shown that co2 emissions are harmful and that it is not reasonable, in a crisis, to tax energy consumption alone heavily.
i believe that the objective of reducing co2 emissions should not be a brake on activity.
i voted against the lulling report and against the european directive on energy taxation.
not that it's unusual to tax energy, but it's already heavily taxed at the national level.
the text will increase the tax burden by adding a tax on co2 emissions to a general tax on energy consumption.
the french government, incidentally, is in favour of imposing this "carbon tax" at european level, knowing full well that it will raise the price of gasoline or heating for millions of impoverished citizens.
the european parliament was consulted on the reform of the taxation system for energy products and electricity.
that is why i opposed the principle of 'proportionality' between the different thresholds applicable to each type of energy, which would have the potential to increase the cost of diesel, a fuel widely used in france, very sharply.
europe's environmental objectives must not be achieved at the expense of the objectives of employment, competitiveness and consumer protection, but they must all go hand in hand.
i welcome the adoption of mrs lulling's report on the reform of the taxation system for energy products and electricity in the european union.
the draft directive proposes to revise the minimum rates of energy taxation.
the methodology proposed by the european commission would have led to considering energy as bad in principle, whereas emissions are harmful.
we have been very active in preventing excessive taxation of diesel vehicles which would harm consumers, our farmers and the competitiveness of our companies, particularly in the energy and road sectors.
i have supported this report on the revision of the rules governing energy taxation in the european union, to which the european parliament is contributing through a consultation procedure.
the aim of this revision is to bring the framework for the taxation of energy products into line with the objectives pursued at european level in the field of energy efficiency and the fight against global warming.
the commission's proposal to tax fuels on the basis of their energy efficiency and not on the basis of the pollution generated by their combustion.
according to this logic, diesel, which offers better energy efficiency than petrol, should have been taxed more heavily (390 euros per tonne against 359 euros for petrol).
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague astrid lulling on the reform of the taxation system for energy products and electricity in the european union.
in view of the successive crises that have hit the world economy and our continent hard, we here express our disagreement with the commission's proposal to change the energy taxation system in the eu, which could lead to a significant increase in the price of diesel at the pump.
for the period 2020-2030, europe has set itself ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gases.
we want to increase the share of renewable energy in production, and reduce the use of fossil fuels that are too harmful.
the protection of the environment is a fundamental issue for the maintenance of a certain quality of life for future generations.
i voted in favour of the report on the taxation of energy products which adapts the structure of energy taxation to support the objective of a low-carbon economy which is also energy efficient.
i voted against this revision of the directive to prevent distortions of competition in the energy sector.
theoretically, the aim is to establish common rules on taxation and permitted exemptions by setting minimum rates, essentially based on the amount of energy consumed, above which member states are free to determine their taxation rates.
a co2 related element is introduced to support the goal of a low carbon economy.
firstly, the harmonization of european taxation standards removes the possibility for member states to exempt certain sectors from energy taxation, particularly in the transport sector.
secondly, energy taxation will be a burden for households: like vat, it can only be socially unfair.
the fight against climate change, and more generally environmental protection, must not forget social justice if it is to be effective and efficient.
i therefore welcome the vote of our assembly, which rejected an unjustified tax increase and refused to tax not only the co2 emissions of diesel but also its energy efficiency.
this was an ecological aberration, since it amounted to taxing diesel 9% more than petrol.
in other words, we would have taxed the most efficient and therefore cleanest energy.
i have no doubt that the council will follow our advice and reject this measure, which, as you will have understood, would be to the detriment of purchasing power, employment and, ironically, the environment.
if we want solidarity between the territories in the union, if we want quality agriculture, largely self-sufficient in renewable resources, relocated, participating in the public health of consumers, contributing to the fight against global warming and meeting the food needs of our populations, then all european aid must be re-designed in accordance with these objectives.
the european commission must facilitate the emergence, sustainability and development of direct sales systems by delivery to consumers, such as the amap in france, which enable nearly 3 000 farmers to supply 60 000 families.
with thermonuclear fusion, this is the promise to mankind of abundant, infinitely renewable, nonpolluting, affordable, and accessible electrical energy - a promise that other forms of energy production cannot fulfill.
but to succeed in iter, we must turn our backs on the predatory and destructive logic of competition and the financialisation of the energy sector.
in the energy sector, research, design, production, transport networks and distribution cannot be separated unless this leads to the worst waste, social inequalities in access to energy and the risk of major accidents.
mr president, commissioner, my first words are to congratulate mrs ticău on the immense work she has done in the committee on industry, research and energy on this e-government issue.
this is particularly true of environmental issues.
climate change remains the top priority, but in the context of economic crisis, ecology is not the only one to regress.
the challenges of climate change and those of justice and equality for women are intrinsically linked.
to sum up the spirit of this report, we argue that climate change policies can be enriched by integrating gender issues and that tackling discrimination leads to more effective environmental solutions.
as the rio+20 summit approaches, it is clear that there are no simple solutions to a challenge as complex and urgent as climate change.
(applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, climate change must of course be dealt with in its entirety, not only at the level of the european union but also at the global level.
our policy to combat global warming cannot ignore gender issues, nor can our development aid policy do without taking better account of the role of women in developing countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must do everything possible to promote the role of women in developing countries, in major international bodies and, in particular, at the united nations climate conferences.
it is high time, mr president, that gender equality is at the heart of the development and implementation of policies on development, human rights and the fight against global warming.
− mr president, first of all i would like to say that when it comes to women and climate, we are talking about a real and serious programme.
on community support for women and women’s education, i could add that by 2015 all development-financing proposals will include gender-specific indicators, and climate-related projects under horizon 2020 – our new framework programme – will include gender-specific analysis.
one of them was the 7th environmental action programme, which we will discuss later on and which concerns the next episode of our environmental policy for the mid to long term.
we also discussed the rio+20 earth summit, which involves similar themes but obviously in a more international environment.
it is important that we see these issues not only in the context of climate change but also in the context of green growth or, more broadly speaking, in the context of sustainable development.
as some of you rightly pointed out, inclusion and equity are absolute requirements for sustainable development.
just as development cannot be solely about economic growth, sustainability cannot be solely about protecting the environment.
development must be people-centred, promoting rights, opportunities, choices and dignity, and green growth must also be inclusive growth, generating social progress and contributing to eradicating poverty and achieving greater equality, as well as sustaining our natural environment.
by the way, the title of the conference in rio which we will be attending in june is exactly that: ‘green economy in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication’.
i would like to pay tribute to all the women and women's associations around the world who have long understood the need to mobilize on the issue of conservation of resources and on climate issues.
the report proposes a new strategy for 2020 to combat the loss of biodiversity, which, it was stressed, is accelerating dangerously.
it tries to remind us how closely our systems and our future are linked to the preservation of our natural and genetic capital, for our food, our health and the fight against climate change, and it highlights how our future economic development is linked to our capacity to preserve biodiversity.
it is worth remembering that we are losing 3% of world gdp every year due to the loss of biodiversity, that the costs of inaction are far higher than the necessary investment costs and are not only financial, that there is an urgent need to take action before the bill becomes too high and the loan is no longer repayable.
our report calls for two immediate measures: the development of innovative financing and the elimination of all public financing which is harmful to the environment.
but this report also stresses the need to integrate our development strategies into a medium- and long-term vision and the need to integrate the issues of preserving biodiversity into the heart of our sectoral policies and, above all, into the heart of the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and the forestry policy.
madam president, in rio in 1992, the world's heads of state were making a real act of civilization by acknowledging for the first time the responsibility of the human species for the loss of biodiversity and global warming.
although there is a growing awareness of climate change, the challenges of biodiversity conservation are still underestimated, despite nagoya.
this is the necessary condition for the establishment of an international criminal tribunal for the environment, which has become indispensable.
as it stands, i cannot vote in favour of the report on the eu biodiversity strategy 2020. it is not possible for our institution to support the idea that hunting would have a negative impact on biodiversity.
the 7 million hunters in the european union, on the other hand, are engaged in action to protect biodiversity on a daily basis.
by working in the field, they put their expertise, time and resources to work to maintain an environment conducive to the development of wildlife.
similarly, the idea in paragraph 35 that the european union should establish an 'environmental inspection force' is not acceptable.
the european union needs a manifesto, a common political vision on the major environmental challenges for 2020 and beyond.
this is the very reason for launching a seventh environmental action programme by bringing together existing financial frameworks and by mobilising new sources of finance.
this programme must ensure coherence and coordination between the european union's environmental strategies and sectoral policies, whether agriculture, fisheries, research and innovation, health, transport, regional development, spatial planning or urban policies, of course.
despite the economic crisis in the european union, we must not give in to short-term thinking and abandon any ambition in the environmental and climate field.
we must therefore invest decisively in sustainable economy and eco-innovation, sources of growth, competitiveness and jobs.
it is our responsibility to promote eco-design, recycling and environmental product labelling to avoid waste and poor consumer choices.
we cannot ignore the environmental education that is necessary for european citizens.
the environmental action programme is an instrument for policy planning but it is also a communication tool.
it should provide the necessary readability and predictability for national and local administrations, citizens, entrepreneurs and investors on the environmental choices of the european union.
the economic crisis has tended to obscure the ecological and environmental crisis we are experiencing, the long-term consequences of which are extremely serious.
with this seventh eu environment action programme, parliament is urging the commission to focus on implementing and strengthening existing measures, to take the environment into account in all sectoral policies, so that the eu can continue to be a driving force in the fight against climate change at international level.
tools exist for converting our economy to a more sustainable growth model.
the commission proposes that the most developed regions spend 20% of their erdf allocation on the transition to a low-carbon economy and the least developed regions only 5%.
i think, on the contrary, that all regions must become aware of the usefulness of the european environmental strategy and make efforts to implement and respect its objectives.
it will help to restore strong and sustainable growth in europe tomorrow.
this increase robs other energy sectors of money, which are much more promising, such as renewable energy.
in the face of the environmental and economic challenges we face, it is urgent that funding for iter be stopped.
as an environmentalist, i voted against this resolution which prioritizes the economic and geostrategic interests of a european company over the social and environmental rights of the argentine people.
the argentine state therefore has every right to decide sovereignly on the management of its resources and its energy policy, even if this is not a guarantee of exemplary behaviour in this area.
the european union and spain should instead focus on investing their economic, political and diplomatic resources massively in promoting a new energy and development model based on renewable energy and reducing dependence on fossil fuels.
i voted in favour of this report, which takes into account the role and place of women in the fight against climate change.
the report also recalls our ambition to see quotas for women in senior positions, particularly in the context of climate diplomacy.
while this report focuses solely on the situation of women, it should not make us forget the situation of other populations particularly exposed to climate change.
according to a study by the london school of economics and the max planck institute, women are the main victims of climate change and are more likely than men to die in natural disasters.
furthermore, 75% to 80% of the world's refugees are women and children, and climate change is increasing these movements of people and very often their precariousness.
that is why i voted in favour of the kiil-nielsen report on women and climate change, because the european parliament must demonstrate that the gender dimension must be taken into account and integrated into european policies to combat climate change.
the approach and measures proposed in this report are relevant whether it is the introduction of a minimum quota of 40% of women in the european delegations in charge of climate negotiations, the collection of data by gender, awareness raising during the evaluation or launch phases of projects on climate change, investments for increasing financial independence and the means of empowering women within their community...
in writing.
i supported my colleague nicole kiil-nielsen's report on women and climate change.
this own-initiative report calls for gender to be taken into account in the fight against climate change.
the consequences of climate change affect women more than men because they are more vulnerable.
climate change is fuelling the development of these discriminations.
the resolution also recommends that the commission establish indicators to assess the impact of the projects we support and to raise awareness of the impact of climate change on the situation of women.
although i believe that the implementation of a biodiversity strategy is very important, i voted against this report, which is flawed on certain specific points concerning fisheries.
i also hope that the european parliament will follow the advice of the johannesburg and nagoya conferences which propose to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015 if possible, if not 2020. that is the position i support.
the report also gives inaccurate figures, particularly on the number of stocks fished beyond maximum sustainable yield today.
i believe that the cap must remain an economic and social policy as well as an environmental policy.
while the general objectives of the report are laudable (protecting biodiversity), i could not support the adoption of this report, which calls for a break in the traditional organization of the cap: greening the agricultural policy falls exclusively within the 'second pillar' and should not, at this stage, concern the first pillar.
i voted against this report because, while fully aware of the importance and richness of biodiversity, it seems to me that the text is nonetheless excessively important and may unfairly stigmatise certain areas.
i think that the passages concerning the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy are problematic: agriculture and fisheries should not be seen as intrinsically bad for biodiversity.
we must instead take a more constructive view of their role in protecting and enhancing biodiversity, because the actors in these sectors have a vital part to play.
the role of certain groups, such as hunters, is therefore presented in this report as negative, even though hunting plays a very important role in the management of biodiversity in our natural areas.
despite some positive elements (the emphasis on better collection and sharing of scientific data, for example), this report does not seem to me to promote a balanced and fair view of the role of the various actors in our society in protecting biodiversity.
i deeply regret that the european union has not achieved the target it set for 2010. europe has a very high biodiversity both in terms of habitat and animal species, which must be protected.
i voted in favour of the report on biodiversity because it advocates an active approach to environmental protection.
in agriculture, biodiversity and the promotion of more sustainable agriculture are considered in a complementary way, without in any way detrimental to each other.
the resolution also calls for the pooling of resources, the means of combating damage to biodiversity and the pooling of available scientific resources.
it is important to understand that no country can tackle the problems of biodiversity loss alone and that this pooling of our efforts is a necessity.
following the failure of the strategy to halt the erosion of biodiversity in 2010, and in response to the european parliament's request in september 2010, the european commission presented a new strategy for 2020. the report lists a large number of actions, but these are too often limited to good intentions without giving the means, including financial, to achieve its ambitions.
the report is also not sufficiently critical of the current tools that are damaging to biodiversity, particularly in the areas of the cap and international trade.
i therefore abstained, regretting the eu's lack of ambition in the face of the increasingly alarming situation in terms of biodiversity.
i voted in favour of this report because the environment action programmes have been a powerful driver for the adoption of sound environmental legislation in the european union.
one of our priorities must be to implement properly existing environmental legislation, which is not always respected.
finally, it is important to communicate our intentions, because citizens need to know where europe is going in terms of environmental protection.
our environmental policy must set an example for our non-european partners by being realistic, coherent and fully integrated into our growth objectives, without causing panic among our economic actors.
i supported the report by my colleague jo leinen on the seventh european environment action programme.
since the early 1970s, the environment action programmes have guided the development of european union policy and have helped to move towards strong and coherent european environmental legislation.
it proposes that the programme be based on three main lines: strengthening environmental legislation, integrating environmental objectives into all sectoral policies and the international dimension of environmental protection.
our environment is constantly under threat.
to move, to enlighten ourselves, our daily gestures have an even larger carbon footprint.
improving the energy efficiency of the products we use every day must therefore be encouraged.
the next eu environment strategy focuses on reducing our dependence on oil and gas by promoting the development of renewable energy.
this 7th environment action programme, which was put to our vote, also calls on the member states to better implement the existing body of legislation in the field of water.
finally, this revision of the existing programme sees the green economy as a great source of jobs and growth, which will enable us to achieve our goals for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in europe by 2020. it is for all these reasons that i voted in favour of this new environmental strategy.
i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the general thrust of the report and the three main priorities of the 7th environment action programme: - implementation and strengthening of environmental legislation; - integration of environmental objectives into all sectoral policies; - the international dimension of environmental protection.
the european institutions must do all they can to strengthen environmental legislation and integrate environmental protection into other union policies.
i abstained on paragraph 65 of the report, which calls for a shift from taxation of labour to the protection of resources and the fight against pollution.
there will be no sustainable growth without reducing our debt, and that reduction will be even faster the stronger the growth.
but this solidarity can only work if everyone makes an effort and is willing to combine sound public finances and sustainable growth.
we must invent it, invent a new pact for human, social and ecological development, with a special financial fund, with a new role for the european central bank, which must provide credit for development, that is to say, the improvement of purchasing power, the creation and safeguarding of employment, innovation, research, the creation of new public services, the ecological transformation of our continent.
not a word here against social and environmental dumping and the misuse of devaluations.
obviously, no social or ecological considerations prevailed in this decision.
i am voting against this text, which is contrary to the ecological planning which i am promoting and to the relocation of the steel industry which it implies.
the resulting reduction in the printing of the oj will also, in the long run, save money and reduce the environmental impact of the european institutions' activities.
however, the report also points out that care must be taken not to encourage the proliferation of regional airports, since this trend would ultimately run counter to the initial objectives, both in economic terms (too high costs to bear) and in environmental terms, or in terms of territorial logic (insufficient traffic).
i voted against this report because it calls for specific attention and financial support for regional airports, without any conditions relating to safety or the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products.
however, we ask the european commission to reduce the error rate, which was up to 7.7% in the areas of cohesion, energy and transport.
i note, however, an increase in the error rate for expenditure under cohesion policy, but also for energy and transport.
as a member of the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i argued for the discharge to be given to the european environment agency, which is doing a great job.
the executive director of the agency has also been a member of the international advisory committee of the ngo earthwatch (an international environmental organisation), so the european parliament will take the time to examine the agency's accounts in more detail and send a signal: conflicts of interest, if they are proven and can have an impact on the functioning of the agencies, will not be tolerated.
i voted for the postponement of the discharge to the european environment agency, as i did for the medicines agency and efsa.
as far as the environment agency is concerned, the existence of conflicts of interest and internal management problems - particularly in terms of the management of expenditure - led me to vote for the postponement of the landfill.
the european environment agency does not have the same powers or functions as some other agencies whose budget discharge has been requested to be deferred.
its mission is to provide reliable and independent information on the environment.
as a member of the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i argued for the discharge to be given to efsa, the european food safety authority.
i also chose to abstain on the final vote on the cases of the food safety authority, the european medicines agency and the environment agency.
as a member of the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i argued for the discharge to be given to the european medicines agency.
the agency, which was set up in the wake of the erika disaster, has the means to prevent all causes of pollution and to combat its disastrous effects on the environment and human health, and is a pillar of the protection of our seas.
i believe that these new tasks must be consistent with its core mission, which is to safeguard the safety and security of the community's maritime areas and the environment.
i therefore support the idea of a mission to prevent and combat pollution caused by offshore platforms and stress the importance of any extension of its missions being accompanied by an extension of its financial and material resources.
i voted to discharge the 2010 budget for clean sky - aeronautics and environment.
i voted in favour of clearing clean sky - aeronautics and environment as the european court of auditors has not expressed any reservations either on the reliability of the accounts or on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
i voted to discharge the 2010 budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
sesar is in fact aimed at meeting the future challenges of a sector essential to the economy and european cohesion: reduction of co2 emissions, higher fuel prices, saturation of airports.
injecting competition into the roaming markets will, for the first time, provide structural and sustainable consumer protection.
this report provides the necessary legal and environmental certainty.
it provides that chemicals from the european union that meet all european legal standards for the environment and health are not banned from world markets or replaced by chemicals that meet lower standards.
i voted in favour of this text, which sets out the rules for trade in dangerous chemicals, in order to ensure the safety of people and the protection of the environment.
the commission proposed to revise the legislation in particular to clarify certain definitions, to involve the european chemicals agency (echa), but mainly because european legislation covering more chemical substances than the convention, the convention provided for facilitating the export of products in the absence of a response from the importing country by extending the possibilities of derogation from the pic procedure for substances which are either banned or severely restricted in the union, because of the risks they pose to human health or the environment.
the social, environmental, educational and cultural aspects are not sufficiently present, contrary to the aspirations of the people.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the positive effects can be many and the consequences many, especially for biodiversity, and we can go even further.
i say that the improvement of the situation requires an improvement in the living conditions of the population, which is caught between civil war and ecological and economic disasters.
i am pleased to note again that the gap between the stigmatization of petty crime and the weakness of the measures taken against environmental, economic and corporate crime is denounced here.
it would be a waste of time to ignore that other tools exist and need to be implemented.
it asks citizens to mobilize incredible energy for a potentially zero result.
these solutions must also include a real industrial policy, which will enable us to make the investments we need to make our europe a sustainable europe, creating jobs, where the main waste will not be the generation that is leaving the labour market.
it is very important, in particular, to generalize the multiannual long-term management plans for fisheries and to have as an objective maximum sustainable yield.
it also calls for action to reform the organisation of international trade in the long term, including social, health and environmental standards.
- mr president, commissioner, mrs de sarnez, the weakness of respect for social, environmental and human rights standards is undoubtedly also a factor in the imbalances between the european union and china.
so, as long as the european union is a sincere player in the multilateral negotiations aimed at obtaining binding standards on social and environmental issues, and countries like china refuse to have a framework of binding international standards, we believe that europe is entitled to introduce standards on these international issues as well, when entering the european market.
the european union has always been at the forefront of renewable energy.
we are trying in europe to have both renewable energy targets and, so far, a renewable energy industry.
china has launched a price war on renewable energy, particularly photovoltaics.
are we, like the united states, protecting our photovoltaic industry to promote our renewable energy goals, or not?
we cannot today defend renewable energy objectives and not defend a european renewable energy industry.
as long as we remain in a globalised, financialised, ultra-liberal system, we can only re-industrialise our countries without a reasonable and intelligent protection of our economies, by firmly promoting and applying national and european preference and by requiring, for all our imports, compliance with the social and environmental standards we impose on our own producers.
but what a waste of time, what a disaster to draw the consequences of the scandal of the hoarding of wealth by a minority of speculators at the heart of all the disorders of the world economy.
the european authorities must vigorously combat this danger to the marine ecosystem.
this report does not reflect the ecological emergency of the critically low bluefin tuna population in the mediterranean.
it is about planning for sustainable fishing and effective and shared protection of this common good of the sea and all the life we need in it.
the protection of marine biodiversity is a major challenge.
the main objective was to implement new international rules established by the international maritime organisation (imo) in a regulation dating from 2002. as a member of the parliament's committee on the environment, i could not but support this report, which is also a tool in the fight against pollution.
the double-hull regulation prevents the contents of tankers from leaking into seawater and causing serious pollution to oil in the event of collision or stranding.
the environmental disasters of the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2000 showed the need for better protection of oil tankers against damage, which has damaged our marine environment and coastal areas in the past.
the european parliament has for several years adopted effective decisions to increase the safety of oil tankers and reduce the risk of pollution.
similarly, a certain percentage of the amount collected by this tax should be invested in financing union policies on development cooperation and the fight against climate change in developing countries.
the aim of the text is to encourage china, the eu's second largest trading partner, to respect the principles of reciprocity in trade matters, but also the principles of balance and respect for social and environmental rules.
the eu must therefore develop a genuine strategy to promote 'fair trade' and protect its industries and some of its sectors from the social and environmental dumping of some of its trading partners, most notably china.
the text thus calls on the member states to ensure, through appropriate monitoring mechanisms, that foreign companies operating in the union comply with all legislation in force in the single market, including social and environmental standards.
in order to protect our industrial competitiveness, but also our environment, it is imperative that we learn to be less dependent on these resources, by developing innovation and recycling.
the european union must move towards a true circular economy, in which the extension of the life of materials is a priority, from the design stage of products to the reuse and recycling of waste.
for efficiency purposes, the energy recovery of waste must also be promoted.
we must also turn to the sustainable exploitation of resources whose potential is still too often underestimated.
wood is a renewable energy resource and a great, healthy, natural building material.
the european union must encourage its companies to create more innovative and sustainable products.
in this sense, i support the ongoing experiments on environmental product labelling, the aim of which is to provide europeans with credible information on the environmental impacts of their consumption choices.
this report is about reducing wasteful resource use to strengthen our economy and protect our environment.
as a member of the committee on the environment, which is responsible for this text, i am committed on a daily basis to ensuring the best possible balance between achieving the european union's environmental objectives on the one hand and strengthening the competitiveness of our companies on the other.
it advocates environmental taxation and calls for an end to environmentally damaging subsidies by 2020. it is non-binding and based on progressive developments, and it meets the requirements of realism for our companies.
indeed, i believe that what we need is not a green revolution but a gradual change in our economy and society towards practices that are more protective of our environment and therefore also of our health.
the accelerated degradation of the environment, the destruction of natural capital and the loss of biodiversity that we are witnessing today are the result of the over-exploitation of natural resources.
it is therefore crucial to focus on information, education and awareness raising among citizens, especially with regard to waste sorting, reuse and recycling.
this encourages more sustainable consumption patterns and has a direct impact on resource efficiency.
in order to protect our industrial competitiveness, but also our environment, it is imperative that we learn to be less dependent on these resources, by developing innovation and recycling.
we must also turn to the sustainable exploitation of resources whose potential is still too often underestimated.
the european union must encourage its companies to create more innovative and sustainable products.
in this sense, i support the ongoing experiments on environmental product labelling, the aim of which is to provide europeans with credible information on the environmental impacts of their consumption choices.
in the face of the need to find new sources of sustainable economic growth, ensuring our energy independence and ending social inequalities in access to resources, this report makes practical and sensible proposals.
the european union must also set an example in environmental requirements, by extending eco-design to non-energy products, environmental information to mass-consumption products, or by using green public procurement more systematically.
given this estimate, it is clear that our current model of resource use is not sustainable.
in order to make our use of resources more rational and reasonable, the european commission's communication stresses the need to minimise waste generation, develop new products and services, improve stock management, change consumption patterns and, finally, optimise production processes and commercial methods, with a view to stimulating technological innovation and promoting employment in the green technology sector.
more broadly, the commission aims to ensure the transition to a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy.
the gerbrandy report welcomes the commission's approach and calls for coordinated action, consumer empowerment and, finally, a european plan for energy efficiency by 2020.
in writing.
it is balanced because it focuses preferences on those who need them the most while, at the same time, expanding opportunities for countries which embrace core international values or values in human rights, labour rights and the environment.
secondly, if we are serious about supporting sustainable development, we have to expand opportunities for those countries which are ready and willing to implement core international conventions.
this seems to us to be entirely sustainable at first sight.
what about the many middle-income developing countries with poorly diversified economies and vulnerable to climate change?
under the terms of the lisbon treaty, our objective is to promote sustainable economic and social development.
as the main donor of development aid in latin america, the european union wishes to strengthen its cooperation in the region by promoting dialogue on climate change, innovation and the fight against drugs.
the report stresses the need for coherence in all european policies and systematic respect for environmental and social standards, while also including civil society.
volunteers contribute so much to cultural and environmental activities, to social and local missions, that the need to support them is undeniable.
for its safe use, we need a robust digital environment.
i have endorsed the idea of the joint purchase of energy raw materials by the member states.
today, competition for energy resources and monopolies in the field of production pose important problems.
energy cooperation in europe and beyond our borders must be deepened.
the major foreign energy suppliers have their own information on the consumption of european countries, while we ourselves have no idea what our neighbours consume.
seeking to build a strategy for a secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply is a good intention.
the only technique used to date, hydraulic fracturing, poses irreversible problems and global threats to the environment, especially to our drinking water supplies.
a strategic approach is urgently needed to ensure a secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply.
the decline in the eu's internal fossil fuel resources will increase the union's dependence on energy imports, despite the growing contribution of renewable sources, energy efficiency and research in energy technologies.
i support a common external energy policy based on solidarity.
we need to step up our diversification and rethink our strategic cooperation with the major energy producing countries.
ensuring the security of supply of the european union would strengthen the union's capacity to act in foreign policy matters and its credibility as a global actor, in particular in the field of climate change.
i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to find solutions to consolidate the internal energy market.
the european union needs to create a broader regulatory framework and to emphasise key concepts such as sustainability, energy sustainability, better coordination between european networks and diversification of suppliers, sources and supply routes.
our energy needs are immense and growing.
and much of that energy has to be imported.
energy security is a challenge we must face together.
this report contributes to the debate on the need for and how to develop ambitious common external action in the field of energy.
the country is very open to the infrastructure projects we want to develop in the region and to a constantly strengthened trade, energy and political partnership.
i voted in favour of this text which supports a coordinated and effective foreign policy of the member states of the european union on energy supply.
by speaking with one voice, the european union will be stronger in securing its supplies against trading partners who have, in the past, sometimes used energy as a political weapon.
on this roadmap for energy cooperation with third countries, the greens secured amendments, notably on reducing import dependence with increased deployment of renewable energy, on the need to align with long-term climate and energy policy objectives, on the need to ensure sustainable energy supply at local level in developing countries and on the need to be more skeptical of the use of biofuels.
the report by my colleague edit herczog aims to suggest ways of improving the internal energy market.
the report calls for the extension of links between european energy networks and neighbouring countries and the creation of a broader regulatory framework.
in order to improve the coherence and stability of the european external energy policy, parliament also suggested the creation of a strategic grouping for international energy cooperation to enable regular coordination between the member states, the commission and the council.
finally, the report emphasises key concepts such as better coordination, diversification, energy sustainability/viability and strengthened partnerships with supplier countries.
as the world's largest energy importer, the time has come for the european union to define a european energy policy to effectively guide the use of energy, both within and beyond our borders.
the report focuses on key concepts such as better coordination, diversification, energy sustainability/viability, and strengthened partnerships with supplier countries.
the emphasis is on important areas such as major energy networks and infrastructures, strategic dialogues and international partnerships.
it is also important to be able to exchange information, with the establishment of a platform that would enable such exchanges, and to know about european and third country projects in the field of energy.
my vote in favour of this report is in support of one very important aspect: the improvement of cooperation with third countries in the fields of energy and infrastructure.
the eu's energy security is a strategic and vital issue: the union is poor in natural resources and is heavily dependent on its external partners for its energy supply.
i therefore voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need for large-scale energy infrastructure interconnected with neighbourhood networks.
this is the whole purpose of the future transeuropean energy networks.
strengthening coordination with our partners, promoting the diversification of our energy mix, both its composition and our suppliers, and ensuring energy sustainability are all guarantees of a policy that meets the needs of european citizens and businesses.
partnership with third countries is essential, and i supported the creation of the strategic grouping for international energy cooperation.
it is now up to us to develop an ambitious cooperation component, particularly to ensure the ecological transition: if we want to green our economy, but our energy depends on our partners, then we must convince them to develop clean and renewable energy.
first, adoption of the energy efficiency directive can create up to 400 000 new jobs.
i will urge it to endorse a decisive commitment towards sustainable and jobs-rich growth.
in other words, adoption of the mff is a key stepping stone towards the deepening of economic and monetary union, and towards sustainable growth in europe as a whole.
it is now evident that this is indispensible for the sustainability of our common currency, and we are happy to see that also outside the euro area, in europe and outside europe, there is now a consensus that we need further integration in the euro area.
but if, as the commission has proposed, as is being discussed, we have a financial transaction tax, a european carbon tax, a mobile phone tax, these three possibilities - and i could give you more - would give a package of 40 to 50 billion more for the european budget.
it allows us to reach critical mass on scientific research, on networks, on renewable energy sources that no country could achieve on its own.
finally, the fourth priority: better focusing our budgetary resources on a central objective, namely the completion of europe's green conversion for its agriculture, its industry, its transport, its energy efficiency and many other areas.
i am very concerned to see that, when it comes to economic governance, there is now a debate which is right, i think, about how we can create growth that makes discipline sustainable, that makes it sustainable, that actually makes it possible to have balanced budgets and reduce debt.
why not set up mandatory contributions for digital, energy networks, roads, railways, water?
it will reward countries that commit themselves to sustainable development and take action to promote human rights.
the system, created in 1971, is a necessary mechanism in an increasingly competitive global economic and commercial environment.
it is therefore necessary to update this system by concentrating efforts on the least developed countries and by raising the level of award criteria by requiring, for example, compliance with 27 international conventions on human rights, labour and the environment.
i also welcome the extension of the gsp+ criterion, which makes the granting of trade advantages conditional on ratification of basic conventions on human rights, labour and the environment.
i also welcome the improvement in the monitoring and control of the gsp+, which makes the granting of additional preferences conditional on the application of 27 core conventions on human rights, labour and the environment.
on the other hand, we are strengthening another special regime, called gsp+, which offers higher benefits but with conditions: countries will have to prove that they respect the 27 international conventions in the field of human rights and sustainable development.
more recently, the union has introduced a system called the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp+) whereby countries that commit themselves to a certain respect for human rights, democracy and the environment obtain additional trade benefits.
it will ensure a climate of financial stability which is essential to the restoration of confidence, which is the real engine of growth.
eu representatives on the ebrd's governing bodies could thus advocate for the bank's actions promoting social inclusion and energy efficiency, as well as civil and human rights.
the institutions' representatives within the ebrd will be required to encourage the ebrd to contribute to the transition towards open market economies, promoting social inclusion and energy efficiency, while taking into account the social context, poverty, civil rights and human rights.
the aim is to take account of the reversal of the situation in the mediterranean countries in 2011 and to support them in their efforts to achieve a sustainable and secure transition, similar to that currently under way in the countries of central and eastern europe.
we would remind you that parliament will not give its consent to the mff without an agreement on own resources, but also the end of the rebate and other corrective mechanisms, for more transparency, fairness and sustainability in the budget.
since south sudan's independence in july 2011, relations between the two countries have deteriorated steadily, causing a serious humanitarian crisis and straining the civilian population, which is facing a climate of permanent and unsustainable insecurity.
these agreements are therefore based on a reciprocity clause: economic integration is the means of combating poverty, strengthening social cohesion and achieving sustainable development.
moreover, these free trade agreements do not promote the sustainable development policies that these countries need.
i therefore voted against this resolution to denounce the hypocrisy of the european union which is moving towards ratifying a free trade agreement with a country like colombia while claiming to be at the forefront of human rights and environmental protection.
to do this, the hrd must have a sufficiently long mandate (2.5 years) and be renewable more than once (capitalize on the experience gained).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the single market act aims to put the market back at the service of the people and to reconcile them with the people, while recognizing that an effective single market can and must be a source of growth and sustainable job creation.
we must put in place the ecological and social transformation of our economy.
this requires developing green, sustainable, non-delocalised jobs with targeted investment in green and innovative industries.
by improving the remuneration of labour and pensions, and by a new way of producing this wealth by engaging in the ecological change in production which would create millions of jobs in europe.
on the other hand, the european stability mechanism, which is in fact an austerity mechanism, should be replaced by a european fund linked to a european central bank granting new credit conditional on job creation, training, ecological progress, and promoting european public services for the european common good in activities such as water, energy, transport, health, the environment, training, culture, otherwise there will be no what you promise.
i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr jános áder, who is today represented by mr seeber, as well as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for the excellent work carried out on this proposal; and, in absentia, congratulate mr áder on his new responsibilities at the very highest level in his home country.
when accidents do happen, seveso seeks to limit the consequences for man and the environment, through appropriate information and emergency planning.
the way the scope of the directive has been defined was a major issue in the negotiations, and will now reinforce the level of protection of citizens and the environment as the rules will now also apply to establishments handling substances with inhalation vapour toxicity, which were previously not covered.
the commission is therefore making the following declaration, announcing its intention to further analyse the consequences of accidents involving such substances: ‘the commission acknowledges that the compromise reached on its proposal implies an improvement of the level of protection of human health and safety and of the environment as compared with that provided by the current seveso ii directive 96/82/ec.
- mr president, was this a simple façade removal of an outdated law, or were we, in the light of the accidents and natural disasters since 1996, going to move towards greater safety for people, the environment and society, without unnecessary obstacles to industry?
after listening, sharing with others, we set out to propose amendments which, without calling into question the industrial process, would make it possible to achieve greater safety for citizens and the environment, to give new rights to those who are the first to be exposed - the employees of the chemical and transport companies.
how can security be ensured when certain countries use their laxity to dump their products on the environment?
what i am proposing to parliament is a significant but gradual reduction in emissions.
the solution to this problem of waste can only be found in a pragmatic approach, not in a dogmatic one.
as a member of the parliament's committee on the environment, i am committed to balancing economic imperatives with respect for biodiversity and believe that the fishing mortality rates and the biomass levels of the breeding stock should now be adjusted.
the consequences of past chemical accidents have been disastrous for both human health and the environment, sometimes even across national borders.
i particularly welcome its provisions to reduce the administrative burden on businesses: the european parliament points out that a high level of protection of the environment and the health of citizens can be achieved without unnecessary administrative burdens.
finally, the integration of the requirements of the international aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters strengthens citizens' rights.
in the light of the accidents and natural disasters experienced since 1996, moving towards greater safety for people, the environment and society, without unnecessary obstacles to industry, has become a top priority.
in the light of the industrial accidents since 1976 with the explosion of the chemical plant in seveso (italy), progress towards greater safety for people, the environment and society, without unnecessary obstacles to industry, has become a top priority.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have endorsed the adoption of new rules on the labelling and content of baby food and baby food for infants and young children, to better protect consumers and increase food transparency.
the european union would have much to gain if all the opportunities of the single market were used effectively in the fields of energy, transport, retail trade, r & d, labour mobility and financial services.
we want sustainable growth, not illusory growth as advocated by the french socialists who continue to operate on economic models from another time!
finally, we reiterate the absolute need for a 'european investment pact' that would shift from the unilateral approach of fiscal austerity to a more balanced approach to creating sustainable growth and jobs in key sectors such as the green economy, health and social services and information and communication technologies, which we urgently need.
- mr president, the sahel region, already heavily affected by climate change and weakened by the presence of aqim, is being destabilised by the war in libya and the return of heavily armed mercenaries.
the malian mining code does not impose any constraints on mining companies in terms of environmental and social responsibility.
now it is uranium that is coveted by a french company that drills and works in total disregard for the people and the environment, provoking the mobilization of the inhabitants of the municipality of faléa.
the local population, mostly tuareg, has long suffered the almost irreversible health consequences of this irresponsible exploitation: air pollution and contamination of the region's scarce water resources.
in the last decade or so, climate change has had dramatic consequences in terms of famine and displacement.
europe, which is too often criticised for its failure, is at last, with this directive, showing the way to a major sustainable transport policy and opening the way to a major railway investment policy for employment.
it does not matter that these policies are increasingly moving freight from rail to road with the known ecological consequences.
among the regrets, it is regrettable that not enough emphasis has been placed on the urgency of reducing urban, industrial and agricultural diffuse pollution by all means.
the commitments to aquatic ecosystems and biodiversity, including regulation of our soils, need to be strengthened if we are to achieve good status for the whole of the european union, which unfortunately will not be the case in 2015. we have tools to develop and harmonize, but also and above all objectives to implement as soon as possible.
regional development policy, in particular its territorial cooperation component, is a fundamental tool for finding sustainable solutions.
it is our firm conviction that we need to direct more funds towards growth-enhancing areas such as research, education, energy efficiency and green technology.
as you also know, the transition to a green economy has been among the most important political priorities for the danish presidency, and i warmly welcome the common agreement reached on the energy efficiency directive.
this directive is of key importance in our efforts to achieve our two interrelated goals, of transforming europe into a competitive, low-carbon economy and increasing our energy security, all at once.
in addition, the directive will create up to hundreds of thousands of new jobs in europe, and it will of course ensure that the eu gets much closer to our target of 20% energy savings by 2020. i consider this an excellent result.
i therefore appreciate in particular the speedy and constructive manner in which the proposal on the pilot project bonds for transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure has been handled.
regarding the very difficult negotiations on the proposed directive on energy efficiency, the agreement found by the co-legislators at first reading will be a major step in delivering the objective of 20% primary energy savings in 2020. the commission estimates that the outcome reached would allow the delivery of approximately two thirds of the total energy savings in the commission’s original proposal.
i believe it is now clearer that the european union budget is an essential instrument for achieving sustainable growth and jobs through investment.
the focus on internal european issues has always had to be combined with a broader perspective on europe’s role in the world, and never more so than in relation to the preparations for, and decisions in, the rio+20 summit for sustainable development.
green growth is now explicitly and formally accepted by the international community as an indispensable part of our sustainable development agenda.
we have done a lot, it is true, we have done it with energy, but now we will tell you what has blocked it".
you mentioned the energy efficiency directive.
the energy directive is good, but we all know that it is not enough.
this new association framework would enable saint barthélemy to enter into a more reciprocal and sustainable partnership which would take better account of its particularities.
some regions are countries that share the same natural environment and the same historical and cultural reality.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this strategy moves beyond traditional cooperation at national or regional level by bringing together all institutional actors and partners such as universities, research centres and regional organisations from a wider area facing common territorial challenges in environmental, economic, migration and cultural matters.
the macro-regional strategy in the mediterranean has great potential, not only through the common natural environment, but also through a shared history and culture.
but in stages: first with our closest partners, through culture, tourism, biodiversity, entrepreneurship.
launched in 2009, the baltic sea macro-region is a coherent set of territories that are designed to cooperate to better address economic and environmental challenges.
this cooperation took the form of a 'macroregional strategy', designed to coordinate the strong sectoral cooperation already in place, and structured around four pillars environment, prosperity, accessibility and security and around an action plan with 15 priority areas and 80 flagship projects.
the mediterranean basin shares the same natural environment and a common historical and cultural reality links all its shores.
incentives linked to the allocation price of railway sections, taking into account train safety and noise pollution, will be introduced to this end, thus encouraging the sector to modernise its railway fleet and infrastructure.
this report will guarantee the independence of the monitoring bodies and will be the first step in the liberalisation of rail transport, with a view to creating a common area of fast, safe, economical and sustainable transport in the eu.
with the text on the challenges facing the european union in the field of water, we are advocating an ambitious and comprehensive policy, aimed at reducing water waste, a real priority; 2/ encouraging investment in infrastructure to deal with leakage from the network; 3/ the transparency of the charging systems based on the 'polluter pays' and 'user pays' principles.
so i decided to get involved at all levels: 1) at the local level as a municipal elected official; 2/ at national level as president of the french water circle; 3/ european parliament, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the parliament; 4/ and finally at the global level since my election last week in doha as governor of the world water council.
clearer water pricing systems and better waste water management are therefore needed.
we must therefore act quickly to stop the waste of our most precious commodity.
finally, the fight against pollution of the natural environment and the treatment of waste water is necessary at a time when drinking water is far from being a reality in all parts of the world.
sustainable management is essential if all ecosystems are to receive sufficient and good quality water to run our societies and economies.
thus, data collection must continue to be encouraged and improved if we are to better understand the circulation of water in our ecosystem.
finally, it is essential that we include water-related issues (rainwater recovery, water pollution, cost-saving technologies, monitoring, etc.)
the water framework directive, adopted in 2000, on the sustainability of water resources, has unfortunately been applied slowly and unevenly.
this is why the sectors that consume the most water, such as energy and agriculture, need to be particularly careful and adopt a rational use approach.
the resolution focuses in particular on the use of incentive mechanisms such as the application of the 'polluter pays' and 'user pays' principles or the establishment of transparent and efficient pricing systems that would internalise both the costs of remediation and the environmental costs.
i also support the requirements set out by the rapporteur in this document concerning the areas where we must focus our energy and action: meeting human capital needs, ensuring stability and improving access to finance, strengthening territorial cooperation, completing the single market and supporting research and innovation.
i voted in favour of this text which encourages national governments to undertake the necessary reforms to improve the business climate in the union, in order to attract foreign investment to our territories.
to achieve this, the eu must have a coherent political, economic and regulatory framework based on sustainable growth objectives and the community method.
it is therefore the european union's responsibility to help establish a stable legal and economic environment in these countries.
the intensification of trade with these former soviet countries will ensure our energy supplies and will open up new potential markets for our companies.
it is article 27, the only one relating to the digital environment, which has triggered a campaign of disinformation on the internet and has deceived public opinion into believing that there would be so-called individual criminalisation or control of access providers.
i believe that europe must now devote all the energy it needs to establish genuine social governance, and this requires action to promote social convergence and cohesion.
i would also like to take this opportunity to say that i believe that in the context of the debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy, a mechanism for fixing basic prices for a set of production data with the modulation of aid according to geographical data, employment and the environment should be reviewed.
finally, i believe that we must firmly defend the budget of the common agricultural policy for agricultural incomes, for employment and, ultimately, for social justice and the environment.
investing 27 in infrastructure, investing 27 in energy networks, or in education, research and innovation, cohesion policies, food security, and you spoke of food aid for the poorest, i believe, and on that issue too you have my full support.
by reintegrating this programme into the community budget, our assembly is giving europe a strategic future energy by ensuring democratic control.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i was particularly interested in the report on the strategy for the protection and welfare of animals.
at the same time, the horizon 2020 research programme must take into account the need for research in the following areas: biodiversity conservation, wildlife trade, development and validation of alternative methods to animal testing, impact of emerging technologies.
the project bonds are specifically targeted at employment-generating areas, namely transport, energy and broadband infrastructures.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, it is good that the european union is taking action to equip our continent with infrastructure in the fields of transport, energy and digital networks.
it would be even better if it resulted in european public ownership of these infrastructures and if their operation were to be carried out by large european public services of transport, energy and digital networks, thus ensuring greater security and greater respect for public money.
it is time to put an end to competition which, while allowing a minority to reap just profits, is a source of waste, inefficiency, territorial inequality, corruption and exorbitant prices paid by users who have become customers against their will.
that more energy is sold than is produced, with the costs to households and businesses?
the bond issues will meet investment needs in transport, energy and information technology infrastructure.
i would like to thank the european commission today, and in particular commissioner potočnik, and the member states for the determination they have shown in the negotiations and in pursuing the european ambitions for the ecological transition of our economy, which we have set out in this parliament.
in rio we were not exemplary, we did not show that our ambitions for sustainable development were being implemented and applied in all our european policies.
without further delay, let us commit ourselves to innovative financing, the implementation of the financial transaction tax, the ecological taxation, let us commit ourselves without further delay to our energy transition to end fossil fuels!
let us now resolutely re-engage with the rio work programme to accelerate change, but also, and above all, reaffirm our ambitions and try to move forward in the next two summits in 2012: for biodiversity in hyderabad and for climate in doha.
perhaps even worse, the lawyers are proposing a principle of non-regression in environmental law, when for thirty or forty years we have been pushing, the same lawyers have been pushing, for progress in environmental law.
although unep sees its powers as expanded, it is not a global environmental organization.
we need - and i say this again very solemnly - an international criminal court in the field of the environment to deal with crimes that can be committed and crimes that cannot be tried.
it is this governance that we must review and it is this that will make it possible to really set up a green economy, to ensure that global trade is not left to total freedom, regardless of social and environmental rules, and, finally, to enable europe to play its full role again.
if we are to make further progress in the negotiations, we must prove that the fight against poverty and for sustainable development is the real objective of european development policy.
only then will we become credible advocates of sustainable development for all.
this is a return to the copenhagen climate change fiasco.
but should we expect anything else, in times of crisis, economic crisis, ecological crisis?
the real question today is whether europe can lead in these climate negotiations, because we have the right answers.
mr president, commissioner, the failure of rio+20 is ultimately the failure of our society, which must, in this case, overcome itself, recover, in the face of the economic, social and climate crises.
first, to establish a new global governance of the environment, based on ngos, civil society, trade unions.
let's create a global environmental movement!
and then let's allow the emergence of a true green economy from local sustainable development policies.
we must not open our doors to products which do not comply with community rules on health, social and environmental matters.
investment needs in transport, energy and information and communication technology (ict) infrastructure are estimated at eur 1 500 billion in europe for the period 2010-2020. while the private sector is expected to finance the bulk of these investments, most of which will be highly profitable, the role of the public sector in europe will be crucial in achieving these objectives.
this project is part of the europe 2020 strategy for 'a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe'.
the european parliament voted overwhelmingly in favour of bond borrowing for transport, telecommunications and energy projects.
the commission will invest eur 200 million in transport networks, eur 20 million in information and communication technology networks and eur 10 million in energy networks.
the obligations in question are aimed specifically at areas that generate jobs and competitiveness, namely transport and energy infrastructure and broadband.
the development of modern and efficient infrastructure is of paramount importance if the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy are to be achieved while reducing unemployment through the completion of the internal market.
to this end, the commission proposed the creation of a connecting europe facility under the next financial framework, which will accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of transport, energy and ict networks, with a particular focus on strategic cross-border aspects.
however, in order to allow a return to sustainable growth, it is imperative that this fiscal consolidation effort be combined with investment policies in projects that promote the competitiveness of our businesses and economies.
the €230 million, redeployed from the current budget, will be used to guarantee private bond issues to invest in projects that promote growth and jobs, such as transport, energy and information technology.
i am bringing this to the house today to correct inconsistencies which have arisen in the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety because of the commission's departments.
in fact, all my compromise amendments tabled in the committee on energy, research and technology have been adopted.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the countries of the amazon are facing illegal mining, which is causing ecological and social damage to indigenous territories with dramatic consequences.
on this point, i believe that my colleague, mr satu hassi, has made a very good link between environmental and economic requirements.
the proposed regulatory framework is an important step towards achieving the objectives set out in the energy-climate package, while stimulating green growth and jobs.
by adding the european sectoral energy efficiency measures and the national measures taken by the member states, the european union should therefore be able to achieve its indicative energy efficiency target of 20% by 2020. without reducing our production or economic activity, it is essential to combat waste, control energy use and stimulate innovation.
at a time when the cost of energy is on everyone's mind, it is important to remember that the best energy is the energy we do not consume.
this would have helped to stimulate decentralised energy production in rural areas.
commissioner, in order to create competition, which i am in principle in favour of, european legislation has imposed decoupling between network operators and energy suppliers.
where there was only one operator, who acted for free because he was simultaneously in charge of the network, the network operator and the energy supplier are now in the same situation in my country, france, where things were much simpler before.
now that it has split between two separate entities, when there is a maintenance problem, the two entities - the energy supplier and the grid operator - kick each other's butt by claiming that the responsibility for the problem belongs to the other.
the european parliament, by adopting this energy efficiency directive, wanted to reaffirm its commitment to combating climate change.
ensuring that member states improve energy efficiency by 20% is crucial for the eu to remain an environmental leader.
insulating public buildings, carrying out energy audits and mobilising funds to enable this transition are the main measures in this text which i supported.
in addition to the development of renewable energy and the reduction of co2 emissions, energy efficiency represents one of the greatest potential for progress in the fight against climate change.
finally, binding measures in the field of energy efficiency.
of course there are exceptions and some measures remain voluntary, but nevertheless the agreement reached at first reading makes it possible to transform certain aspects of the energy efficiency plan into binding measures.
energy companies will have to reduce their sales to industrial and private consumers by at least 1.5% per year.
each member state will have to ensure that 3% of the floor area of government buildings is renovated every year in line with the energy performance of buildings directive.
while parliament would have liked to go further on these issues, it must be remembered that it was the council and therefore the states which lowered the level of ambition of a text which remains, in the end, resolutely positive in the context of the current energy transition.
i welcome the adoption of the turmes report on energy efficiency.
the eu's energy consumption reduction target of 20% by 2020 is now binding.
it is in addition to the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and increasing the share of renewable energy to 20% of energy consumption.
the directive provides for a 3% renovation rate for public buildings, energy saving programmes for public services and energy audits for large companies.
i voted in favour of the energy efficiency directive.
as the 20% energy saving reduction targets developed by the commission and adopted by the member states under the 2020 strategy appear to be running out of steam, it was necessary to reassess them and adapt them to more appropriate feasibility criteria.
these new measures are designed to achieve additional savings while promoting the need for energy efficiency.
thus, binding measures have been developed to involve governments more strongly: cost-effective approaches to building renovation are required, and the concept of energy efficiency will have to be an important criterion when awarding contracts.
i also support the idea of making regular energy audits compulsory for large companies.
the european parliament today approved an energy efficiency directive which aims to achieve 20% energy savings by 2020, which is a significant step forward.
i particularly welcome the fact that the directive lists a number of mandatory fields contributing to the energy efficiency objective: renovation of public buildings, strategy for mobilising investment for the renovation of residential and commercial buildings, cogeneration, energy saving certificates, etc.
we have also asked the european commission to publish a list of complementary sectoral initiatives to ensure that the overall target of 20% energy savings by 2020 is actually achieved.
the european union has set itself the target of reducing its carbon emissions and energy consumption by 20% by 2020. to this end, concrete measures are needed, such as the renovation of public buildings, the development of energy saving programmes or regular and mandatory energy audits for large companies.
increased energy efficiency will not only save our environment, but will also stimulate economic recovery and help create new jobs by stimulating the research and innovation sectors.
i supported the adoption of this report, which responds to a real awareness among our people of the need to adapt our societies to significantly reduce energy waste in line with our past commitments.
but the crisis must not obscure other priorities such as the energy question.
the european union had committed itself to a 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. this is an ambitious goal, but not unattainable if we invest more in sectoral energy efficiency measures.
i therefore welcome the adoption at first reading of the energy efficiency directive, which, once implemented by the member states, can help to stimulate green growth and employment and to combat waste.
in concrete terms, public buildings will have to be adapted to improve their energy performance, large companies will have to carry out energy audits, energy suppliers will be obliged to encourage their customers to save money... finally, in less accessible and rural areas, the development of cogeneration could be encouraged.
cogeneration is a technique that allows the production of both heat and electricity from different energy sources (natural gas, coal, biomass).
i voted in favour of this report, which is of considerable importance for the proper use of our energy resources.
the european directive imposes binding energy-saving measures, including the renovation of public buildings, and energy audits for all large companies.
the adoption of this text is a step in the right direction and will allow, in the case of france, to continue, even more drastically, the efforts to reduce energy expenditure and promote renewable energies initiated by the previous government.
we voted by a large majority for the energy efficiency directive.
on 8 march 2011, the commission presented a new energy efficiency plan (eep) which sets out measures to achieve further savings in energy supply and use, while establishing a common framework for promoting energy efficiency in the union for 2020 and beyond.
this directive requires member states to set energy efficiency targets which take into account the general 20% target.
but if energy efficiency is one of the sine qua non conditions for economic efficiency, the epp group felt that the requirements of realism for our companies must also be met, and urged the rapporteur to accept the compromise proposed by the council.
i voted in favour of the energy efficiency directive, to achieve the european target of a 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020. the measures adopted are varied and incorporate various mechanisms relating to the renovation of buildings, standards for public procurement, energy-saving obligations, transport and distribution.
the only progress made in this report is the introduction of binding energy efficiency targets.
unfortunately, it is rendered insignificant by the narrow and unrealistic view of energy efficiency which the text proposes.
it removes the obligation to take into account, in calculating energy efficiency, the total primary energy consumption that each product or service generates on the planet.
worse, it exempts nuclear power plants from energy efficiency tests.
add to that the validation of the carbon market and the validation of free energy competition, and you get a very high environmental bill for our ecosystem.
i support this report which calls for mandatory measures to reduce energy consumption in all member states.
beyond environmental concerns, energy efficiency is an incredible driver of growth and employment and a key driver of our energy independence.
the directive will reduce the rising costs of our dependence on energy imports - €488 billion in 2011 - which are sinking our trade balance, penalising our businesses and eroding the purchasing power of households.
large companies will be obliged to carry out energy audits.
the structural funds and other financial instruments of the union will be of valuable assistance in helping to finance this energy efficiency.
the high cost of energy, pollution, climate change: there are many reasons why we should support strong initiatives to ensure energy efficiency in our society and production models.
that is precisely the purpose of this regulation, which i supported, and which sets the member states targets to be achieved by 2020. this is in line with the logic of the energy-climate package: to achieve 20% energy savings in the next 8 years.
i believe that achieving energy efficiency means encouraging small everyday gestures, such as choosing public transport over cars or taking care of household consumption.
but it is also for the public authorities to carry out a comprehensive programme for insulation and the environmental quality of buildings: this is where the main margin for progress lies.
we want to involve small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) as well as representatives of environmental, consumer and civil society organisations in the development of these standards, to ensure that the views of end-users, in particular those with specific needs, such as disabled or elderly people, are taken into account and that products meet their needs.
i believe that standardisation is an essential instrument to ensure, amongst other things, the functioning of the single product market, a high level of consumer and environmental protection, and more innovation and social inclusion.
this report is part of the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the european parliament insisted in the negotiations to involve small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) as well as representatives of environmental, consumer and civil society organisations in the development of these standards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the additional costs and administrative burdens of this technique would have led to the disappearance of many farms, especially small farms and those in mountain areas, which would not have been able to comply with this obligation, although they are an essential part of our heritage, our rural fabric and biodiversity.
preserving our oceans is one of the central objectives of european environmental policy.
as a member of the committee on the environment, i welcome the support given by the european parliament to this text.
by 2020, sulphur emissions from shipping will have to be divided by 7 in order to reduce pollution.
this reduction is expected to improve air quality and reduce the number of premature deaths from air pollution by some 50 000.
in writing.
with our commitments on global warming by 2020, the european union must act on all pollution.
the report sets an ambitious course to reduce marine pollution by strengthening fuel standards.
this is excellent news for environmentalists and further proof of the added value of the european parliament's and, more generally, the european union's action in the field of the environment.
i voted in favour of new standards to reduce sulphur emissions from shipping by 90% by 2020. these standards are more stringent and are in line with those adopted in 2008 by the international maritime organization (imo).
air pollution is unfortunately not only caused by emissions from the earth.
the fuel for ships is a huge polluter, and has a huge impact on the environment.
this is a real step forward in the protection of biodiversity.
i voted in favour of this report because the current emissions from ships from marine fuels are high in sulphur.
they contribute to air pollution in the form of sulphur dioxide and particulate matter which are harmful to human health and lead to acidification.
the draft directive aims to substantially reduce these emissions by making the most recent rules of the international maritime organisation binding in the eu.
i welcome the adoption of this text, which is effective in protecting the environment while allowing governments to negotiate the directive in order to obtain adaptations adapted to specific local situations.
i voted in favour of the report on the prevention of pollution from ships.
the deterioration of air quality caused by the use of hydrocarbons and the impact of this consumption on the environment and human health are no longer to be demonstrated.
the ecological transition requires the fleet to be adapted to environmental requirements.
i abstain because i support the proposed timetable for reducing sulphur pollution, but i am concerned that there is no substantial aid to implement the measures needed to do so.
the eu is proposing to reduce the sulphur content of emissions from ships in the baltic sea and the north sea to 0.1% by 2015. it thus transposed into community law an obligation laid down by the international maritime organisation (imo), which was difficult to ignore.
of course, we must combat transport pollution and reduce the ecological footprint of all modes.
the eu is the world's leading maritime power and a world leader in the fight for the environment, proof that transport and sustainability are not incompatible, quite the contrary.
as the european union faces a difficult economic environment, it is important that it protects itself against all forms of loss of tax revenue from business, so that we can contribute together to the objectives of reducing our public deficits.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
not content with endorsing the europe 2020 strategy, the european semester, the euro plus pact or the employment and growth pact, these groups insist on the establishment of the single market for services, the single energy market, the maintenance of the carbon market and the fight against protectionism.
i support the rapporteur's wish that donations should become more and more voluntary and not for profit in a transparent environment.
it reinforces the view that donations should be voluntary and made without profit in a transparent environment.
it would take a willingness on the part of the member states to see cord blood no longer regarded as hospital waste but as a real resource for research.
thus, activities producing goods or services that are conducive to environmental protection, or eco-activities, are seen as a way of achieving greater gender pay equality and reducing economic and social disparities between men and women.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is essential to look at the question of the role of women in a sustainable economy.
because they are the ones who are on the front lines today and are paying a particularly heavy price in the face of the devastating effects of the ecological crisis.
it is worth recalling that it mainly affects women in rural areas, who are impoverished by soil degradation, those in megacities who are forced to live at a pace incompatible with respect for human rights and who are exploited in degrading conditions, and women and their children who are victims of displacement due to conflicts and climate change.
women are still too often excluded from sustainable development policies, even though they play a vital role in maintaining an agro-ecology that preserves biodiversity and strengthens social cohesion through their collective organisational practices.
the report stresses that the current economic and ecological problems are being tackled in a primarily technical way, ignoring that the solutions lie in a drastic change in social justice and a sustainable economy.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy.
in the difficult times we are living in, it is important to remember that investing in human capital, especially in the younger generations, should not be seen as a cost but as an investment in the future, in sustainable growth and an inclusive society.
it is clear that the current economic climate is not conducive to such investments.
the council last june wanted a pact for smart and sustainable growth, based on investment that creates jobs.
no, not all fishermen are these sea-robbers, the only ones responsible for the poor state of health of stocks, as they claim, by encompassing all categories of fisheries, environmental organizations and the european commission.
the main measures taken by the european executive are, once again, to reduce the number of fishermen in order to achieve the mythical 'maximum sustainable yield'.
the commission should take this further by introducing a european eco-label to reward sustainable fishing practices.
these texts concern hundreds of thousands of jobs, our food self-sufficiency, the preservation of fisheries resources and the sustainability of an economic sector.
we must now build real tools to achieve the economic, social and environmental balance of this activity, in line with the eu's 2020 strategy.
what i demand, and what i present to you today, is a decisive deal for europe – a decisive deal to project our values, our freedom and our prosperity into the future of a globalised world; a deal that combines the need to keep our social market economies on the one hand and the need to reform them on the other; a deal that will stabilise the emu, boost sustainable growth, and restore competitiveness; a deal that will establish a contract of confidence between our countries, between member states and the european institutions, between the social partners, and between the citizens and the european union.
firstly, we need growth, sustainable growth.
at the national level it means undertaking structural reforms that have been postponed for decades – modernising public administration, reducing wasteful expenditure, tackling vested interests and privileges, reforming the labour market to balance security with flexibility and ensuring the sustainability of social systems.
we need to reduce our energy dependence and tap the renewable energy potential.
promoting competitiveness in sectors such as energy, transport or telecoms could open up fresh competition, promote innovation and drive down prices for consumers and businesses.
we need to build on this by investing in our new industrial policy and creating a business environment that encourages entrepreneurship and supports small businesses.
this means making the taxation environment simpler for businesses and more attractive for investors.
it is a budget that will help complete the single market by bridging gaps in our energy, transport and telecoms infrastructure through the connecting europe facility.
it is a budget for a modern, growth-oriented agriculture capable of combining food security with sustainable rural development.
it will only work if it is fair and equitable because inequality is not sustainable.
while much has been done here – for instance through the six pack and through the country-specific recommendations – further steps are crucial to combine specific conditions with specific incentives and to really make the economic and monetary union sustainable.
ultimately, the credibility and sustainability of economic and monetary union – the credibility of our currency, the euro – depends on the institutions and the political construct behind it.
the world also needs an eu that keeps its leadership of development and humanitarian assistance, that stands by open economies and fights protectionism and that leads the fight against climate change.
(applause)with high levels of social cohesion, respect for human rights and human dignity, equality between men and women, respect for our environment – these european societies, with all their problems, are among the most decent societies in human history.
that is why my group has called for a reduction in red tape by 2015. at least 50% less paper than trees saved for the environment!
mr barroso, when you speak of crisis, do not forget the ecological crisis, the environmental constraints, which you did not mention in the description of crises today.
we are facing a polycrisis, several crises, and the ecological crisis is one of the most important crises, along with the financial and economic crisis and the democratic crisis.
i would have liked to see more ambition on the question of industrial rearmament through energy, the environment and digital technology.
frankly, sometimes i believe we waste too much time and energy criticising secondary issues.
the united nations convention on the law of the sea and the united nations fish stocks agreement require coastal states and states whose fleets fish in adjacent high seas areas to cooperate in the responsible management of all stocks to ensure their long-term sustainability.
following the finding of over-exploitation of stocks, including mackerel, in the north-east atlantic seas, this report aims to adopt trade sanctions against states that fail to engage in responsible stock management and thus jeopardise long-term sustainability.
in the face of ambitious european legislation to preserve fish stocks, it is imperative that we ensure that our fishing activity does not become an offshoring activity with lower environmental costs.
information for european citizens on the fish they consume needs to be improved in order to guide them towards products from sustainable and, if possible, local fisheries.
reducing our ecological debt by consuming less imported fish is necessary, as is raising the quality of fishery products placed on the market and promoting employment in the european fisheries sector.
i was, on the contrary, very much in favour of the european parliament recognising the need to make european funding of the storage mechanism sustainable and creating an eco-label.
finally, the report supports the development of aquaculture, which i support, provided we remember that this activity is complementary to fishing and must be governed by strict environmental standards, without favouring the creation of a market for fishmeal.
i welcome the adoption of this report, which reconciles the challenges facing the sector: quality of products for consumers, sustainability and economic viability of fishing activities.
the sector must remain competitive, but not at any price: no one wants to see our small-scale fisheries disappear, threatened by intensive activities, climate change and market tensions.
on tuesday 11 september 2012, i voted in favour of the information requirements under the regulation on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
the main aim is to amend the measures relating to multiannual recovery and management plans for fishery resources in order to reconcile ecological imperatives with economic and social considerations.
they offer no guarantee of restoring the stocks to good ecological status.
i voted in favour of the report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
a more lenient position was also adopted on the compulsory landing of waste; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of fisheries in the baltic sea.
finally, as regards the maximum sustainable yield, a compromise was reached so that this rate would be applied by 2020 at the latest, rather than in 2015.
in writing.
the common fisheries policy, in place for 20 years, has not been able to preserve fisheries resources and the balance of the ecosystem, nor has it been able to prevent the economic and social deterioration of an entire sector of activity.
the salavrakos report deserved support for its long-term perspective on the sustainable development of eu fisheries, but we could not let it be diluted in this way.
let me explain: amendment no 2, which was adopted with the help of the regionalists who overturned the vote, destroys the call for the rebuilding of fish stocks beyond levels that can produce maximum sustainable yield (msy).
the proposed measures are designed to increase sustainable and eco-friendly fishing, to ensure that europeans are supplied with healthy and high-quality fishery products, to ensure the prosperity of coastal communities and the profitability of the fish production and processing industries, and to improve the attractiveness and safety of jobs.
this text proposes relevant measures to establish a truly sustainable fishery.
the involvement of fishermen at all levels, national and local, in producer organisations, financial support for improving scientific knowledge of stocks and the collection of statistical data on fisheries, financial support for the development of an eco-label, the fight against discards from by-catch, financial support for improving the energy efficiency of vessels, import control, training of seafarers and improving living conditions on board, the promotion of fisheries tourism are all measures that i support with the left front.
parliament also said that we should reach the maximum sustainable yield by 2020, not exceed it, which was considered too vague.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the epp, our colleague mr kariņš, on this difficult report, given the sensitive nature of bilateral energy negotiations between european countries and third countries.
energy europe is making progress, not fast enough, but it is making progress.
the european union is a major importer of energy and is structurally dependent on certain supplier countries.
in order to have a more european reflection on our energy strategy, it became necessary to disseminate information on energy agreements more widely to the european commission, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
the establishment of an information mechanism on intergovernmental agreements will therefore improve transparency in the energy market and thus make it possible to anticipate energy supply problems.
these companies therefore see their future compromised, even though they need sustainable growth and innovation.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to promote the emergence of an economy more geared to the citizen, that is to say, a more innovative and more solidarity-based economy, it is essential to strengthen the conditions of access to finance for companies pursuing not only economic but also social, ethical or environmental objectives.
the second reading, as we have all demonstrated, would be a complete waste of time.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i particularly support the idea that it is crucial to update the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making in the light of the changing european legislative environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
many initiatives will be taken to strengthen the industrial competitiveness of these areas, sustainable fisheries, maritime energy, tourism and the shipping industries.
with this roadmap, we should be able to contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of maritime regions by concentrating efforts on strategic sectors: marine energy, the shipping industry, sustainable fisheries and tourism.
the promotion of renewable marine energies, particularly in wave and tidal energy, is one example.
i support the idea of supporting sustainable tourism, training and access for young people to maritime professions and the creation of new specialties which can contribute to the sustainable development of fishing areas, the ambition to safeguard the ecological balance and biodiversity of the atlantic area, and public support for the modernisation of the fishing fleet.
i also stressed the need for effective and sustainable management of maritime, coastal and inland areas, highlighting their many assets and promoting harmonious land-sea interface design.
this strategy will support the development of the atlantic region, striking a balance between preserving the environment and biodiversity, and creating wealth, competitiveness and attractiveness.
this text, which i voted for, makes it possible to streamline the information provided by eu member states in energy negotiations with third countries.
the commission may also, at the request of member states, assist them in energy negotiations with third states.
better regulation of the internal energy market is a key objective of the european union, since security of energy supply is a key factor.
while the european union is today the most relevant level for developing a genuine, strong and independent energy policy, it seems important to ensure a transparent dialogue with the various european actors concluding agreements with third countries in this strategic area.
until now, the number of intergovernmental agreements on energy between member states and third countries is unknown, as member states are not obliged to notify them to the commission.
moreover, the commission, not knowing exactly what quantities of energy are imported, cannot foresee the vagaries of the market and therefore the means of overcoming them.
the commission has therefore proposed to set up a mechanism for the exchange of information on energy agreements with third countries.
i have chosen to vote in favour of this text because i believe that this report strengthens the european energy policy in a difficult energy situation, with unstable balances and alliances.
the aim here is to exchange information on agreements which may have an impact on the internal energy market or the security of our supplies, with a view to better coordinating our external energy policy.
this text strikes a good balance between the rights of member states to negotiate independently and the need for the european union to have a coherent and sound external energy policy: it is simply a matter of ensuring that no agreement is signed which goes against the energy needs of the european union.
the report aims to establish a mechanism for exchanging information on intergovernmental agreements concluded between member states and third countries which may have an impact on the internal energy market or on the security of supply, in particular gas, oil and electricity.
the establishment of this mechanism will improve transparency in the energy market and make it possible to anticipate the problems of energy supply that europe is suffering from.
this tool will also help to strengthen legal certainty for our european companies in the energy market.
i voted in favour of the text on the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements concluded between member states and third countries which may have an impact on the internal energy market or security of supply.
this system will improve transparency in the energy market and anticipate problems in europe's energy supply.
not content with gaining control of national budgets and employment policies in the member states, the european commission now wants to control all energy agreements that member states conclude with third countries.
no further energy agreements can therefore be signed without the approval of the european commission.
the principles of liberalism and free trade will continue to take precedence over the general economic and ecological interests.
the rapporteur also calls for greater consideration of social and environmental aspects in the context of future economic liberalisation.
this vote should not make us forget that the real challenge for these territories is a transition to a more diversified and sustainable economy.
it faces competition from the dollar banana, produced in particular in central america under sometimes questionable social and environmental conditions and at a very competitive cost price.
the rapporteur also calls for greater consideration of social and environmental aspects in the context of future economic liberalisation.
this vote should not make us forget that the real challenge for these territories is a transition to a more diversified and sustainable economy.
europe must therefore promote further economic and human development in these regions by preventing the import of mined products without any social and environmental safeguards.
as far as the carbon footprint is concerned, the strasbourg headquarters has exactly the same one as if it were in brussels.
the economic crisis, climate change, the power of emerging countries, land grabbing, all of these are forcing us to set new priorities: food security, access to energy resources and access to health care.
there is a european consensus, but we need to rethink the european and international institutional systems in environmental and social matters, taking inspiration from decision-making bodies such as the wto.
in addition, effective poverty reduction also requires strengthening the synergies and strategic linkages between humanitarian and development aid, which are a necessary condition for building resilience and engaging in a sustainable development process.
so 2015 must be the year of development, i mean sustainable development.
i am convinced that acp countries which have achieved positive economic performance should be encouraged in their transition towards more sustainable growth; they should not be unduly penalized for having achieved growth through discipline, good governance and prudent economic policies.
we got hot; the negotiations were difficult but a new milestone has been reached in the field of seas and oceans and with the commitment to double funding for biodiversity by 2015. after the disappointment of the rio summit, it's a relief.
the european union and the international community are still capable of environmental voluntarism.
but the crisis in the state of biodiversity calls for intensified efforts and commitment to preserve our natural capital, now and here in the budget, the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and, soon, we will be debating the fight against bio-piracy and the ratification of the nagoya protocol.
the report makes a sad and hard to refute observation: we are far from the targets set for 2004 and 2009. the single european sky is expected to reduce co2 emissions by 50 million tonnes and create 328 000 jobs, despite the slowdown in growth in the sector caused by the crisis and the increase in fuel prices.
the single market has been our success for some 20 years now, but if this success is to be sustainable, we must complete it and get on with our work.
but this countercyclical fund must be fed by new and sustainable resources, it must be managed in accordance with the community method to avoid the union's breakup.
the commission and parliament are united against the states which are more concerned with limiting waste.
however, i stress the need to make the programme sustainable in the next financial programming period 2014-2020; the challenge is indeed long-term, as associations need visibility to fulfil their missions.
we must continue to work towards a sustainable solution that satisfies all member states, beneficiaries and donors.
in view of the challenges it faces, it must be able to meet and finance the commitments made by all the european institutions, in particular in the fields of climate, development aid, research, employment and the fight against poverty.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
this interim report on the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework has four merits: it stresses the need to continue the food aid programme for the poorest, it proposes a substantial increase in the share of the budget set aside for the fight against climate change, it calls for an end to the uk rebate and it advocates for real parliamentary scrutiny of the budget.
in these negotiations, parliament will defend several red lines: the budget must be a vehicle for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, be flexible to meet structural and cyclical needs and developments, and support projects with high european added value.
it is therefore not surprising that the european commission is obsessed with raising vat rates and abolishing vat rates, even on the most essential items, such as water and energy.
this report endorses the logic of public-private partnership, a source of waste and plunder, promoted by the commission.
mr president, please feel free to take up the green list whenever we have a vote on a trade agreement, and you will see that we are consistent on respect for human rights, the environment and social rights.
i voted today to give the budgetary discharge to the medicines agency as i did to efsa and the european environment agency.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
achieving a safe, efficient and sustainable single european sky that is favourable to our travellers and businesses alike is an ambitious but achievable goal for europe that should not pose any problems for member states.
in addition to saving time for travellers, optimising air routes should result in significant fuel savings and a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from civil aviation.
the average flight length has increased by 42 kilometres, which translates into higher fuel consumption, higher emissions, higher fees and delays.
in these times of chronic unemployment and reflection on the impact of our lifestyles on our environment, i can only support the establishment of the single european sky.
the european parliament decided on 10 may to postpone the discharge decision for the european environment agency and has therefore just produced a second report on the subject.
i voted today to give the discharge to the european environment agency as i did to efsa and the ema.
i supported the discharge to the european environment agency for the financial year 2010. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the discharge for the financial year 2000 in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000. the vote was on the second discharge report.
in may 2012, parliament postponed the discharge, mainly due to a conflict of interest issue within the european environment agency.
i supported the discharge to the european environment agency.
moreover, since the landfill was postponed, the environment agency has, on the contrary, provided a large number of elements which underline the responsible management of the agency.
the economic aspect must be focused on concrete issues: targeting funding on basic social services to improve living conditions, supporting micro-enterprises by improving the economic and legal environment and combating unemployment, or coordinating the action of public and private actors to rationalize the distribution of available funds.
the measures proposed here to reduce administrative burdens are a helping hand to our smes in the difficult economic environment we are going through.
on the other hand, as regards a europe which protects and gives citizens confidence, let me be more skeptical about the proposals relating to transport and energy networks.
i am surprised that the road cabotage, which is scheduled for 2013, will not be mentioned here, since it will have a serious ecological impact and will lead to even more social dumping than is the case today.
it is a tool to be used for economic development, the ecological transition and the social well-being of our fellow citizens.
my group will be vigilant to avoid the deviations of the past and will demand on every subject where market liberalization is discussed a social and ecological package enabling us to strive towards fair competition, which brings development and prosperity to our continent.
i voted in favour of the report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
the common fisheries policy (cfp) has not been able to preserve fisheries resources and the balance of the ecosystem, nor has it been able to prevent the economic and social deterioration of a particularly important sector of activity.
i supported in plenary the report by my colleague ian hudghton on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
i voted for the report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, which was unanimously adopted in plenary, a historic moment!
they are calling instead for more competition, more flexibility in the 'labour force' and total liberalisation of the energy market.
the practice of artificially low wages in relation to the wealth produced and european wages (wage dumping), the existence of tax exemptions or reduced taxes on companies (fiscal dumping), the endangerment of the ecosystem (environmental dumping) are all criteria which should be used to judge whether there is dumping or not.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
as one of the world's leading donors, the european union's development policy must not be limited to humanitarian support but must also include other technical and political elements such as climate change and local actors such as ngos and local assemblies.
it is also important that european external policies in the areas of trade, agriculture or environmental protection are pursued in a coherent manner and that the whole of eu action is more readable.
the lisbon treaty establishes poverty eradication as a global objective of eu development policy (article 21) and, in order to achieve this objective, states the need for a coherent approach to eu external action, including trade, agriculture, fisheries, climate change, tax havens (article 208).
these are the european partnership agreements, agricultural and fisheries policy, climate change and energy, migration and security.
in particular, the country from which i come, and which you probably know less well than i do, is a country whose demographic situation is nothing like that of other european countries, which makes it possible, in a difficult climate, where the president of the french republic is seeking to re-establish the conditions for a fruitful social dialogue to carry out the reform, to take up a mandate on the basis of a decision which has been imposed in the light of the balance sheet of the previous president of the republic.
i voted in favour of the report on the revision of the agreement between the european union and the united states on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
the objective of the energy star agreement revision was to develop simplification measures to make the implementation of the programme more efficient.
the energy star labelling programme, an initiative of the united states, became applicable in 2001 and was renewed in 2006. given the high energy consumption of office equipment, it is important to encourage european manufacturers to improve the energy performance of these appliances.
the presence of the 'energy star' logo on an appliance thus indicates that the appliance was designed in accordance with the technical specifications of the programme.
the energy star programme, we are familiar with, as we see the brand on many of our office supplies.
the purpose of this report is to enable the energy star programme to continue in the european union.
this program was created by the u.s. environmental protection agency to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment.
in practical terms, this means that a budget will be allocated to financing public or private projects with high potential but which are having difficulty finding investors due to the current unfavourable economic environment.
i vote against this organized waste.
the rest is strictly in line with the austerity propaganda that prevails within these walls: call for the ratification of the merkozy treaty, support for greater flexibility in the labour market, calls on governments to comply with the commission's requirements in the context of the european semester, satisfaction with the austerity policies implemented and commitment to the rapid liberalisation of the transport and energy sectors.
finally, my colleagues and i demand that the new bilateral agreement guarantee convergence of certification systems, the development of an open and transparent eu-russia energy market, reciprocity in public procurement, protection of all forms of intellectual property and a modernisation of the dispute settlement system.
while alexander lukashenko has been the undisputed leader of belarus for over 18 years, we denounce the climate of intimidation and election fraud.
i would like to stress that the new regulations will substantially improve the environmental and safety performance of all the vehicles we are discussing, to the benefit of citizens and society as a whole, and they also provide sufficient time for industry to adapt production to the new requirements.
fourthly, the environmental and safety protection of the vehicles concerned has been improved: i shall not go into the details of the individual proposals, because that has already been made very clear by the rapporteurs.
they have become dangerous to pedestrians, cyclists and animals, and are involved in many environmental degradations.
that is why we feel it is essential to legislate as a matter of priority, giving even greater force to the law on safety, on pilot training, on noise emissions, on road conditions, the aim being - everyone understands this - to protect both the drivers who respect the rules and the affected populations.
secondly, we need a fiscal union, in which the fiscal seriousness of the member states is matched by support for sustainable development at european level.
this includes limiting as far as possible the levels of pollution of the seabed, the continental shelf and its subsoil in the context of resource exploitation operations that could be implemented.
i voted in favour of the report on the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the sea bed and its subsoil.
the mediterranean sea is particularly vulnerable to pollution.
i voted in favour of the adoption of this protocol, which aims to ensure greater safety of activities in the mediterranean sea and to strengthen the protection of the mediterranean ecosystem.
i also think it is important to improve coordination between the mediterranean countries in order to increase our responsiveness, since we still too often find that borders are not sufficient barriers to stop pollution.
this demonstrates the need for increased security and sustainable governance of oil and gas activities in the mediterranean.
the barcelona convention mechanism complements the commitments made by the union under the european neighbourhood policy and the union for the mediterranean through the flagship initiative for the clean-up of the mediterranean called horizon 2020. in addition to the 'sensitive areas' investment programme for the mediterranean, supported by the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, other eu programmes are worth mentioning: capacity building of environmental authorities, environmental information sharing systems, sustainable water management, urban development cooperation and dialogue and various other research projects.
the fight against pollution by plastic waste, which is poisoning marine ecosystems, should be a priority.
the mediterranean is one of the areas of our ecosystem that should be preserved and where the most stringent regulations on the non-discharge of hydrocarbons by ships apply.
the development of oil exploration and exploitation, in particular, represents a serious danger to this ecosystem, which is already very fragile due to its closed sea situation and numerous sources of pollution.
it advocates enhanced cooperation and coordination at regional level, which are the solutions for sustainable governance and effective environmental protection, even as offshore activities are expected to grow strongly in the coming years.
adopted in 1994, when the environment was being addressed differently, this protocol may have shortcomings in defining a sustainable management system for activities at sea.
however, a policy for sustainable governance of offshore oil and gas activities is essential.
i supported this fair and balanced text, as it takes account in particular of the sustainable fisheries objectives of the european union's environmental policy.
the objectives of this new protocol give priority to the protection of the environment through the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
alongside sound public finances, i believe that well-targeted social investment is needed to achieve sustainable growth again.
we need a social investment pact, alongside the competitiveness pact, which sets out real priorities in terms of social governance, mainly to combat youth unemployment and create sustainable and quality jobs.
our geographical origins are a sure asset, one which the world envies: we must bet on them inside and outside our borders, for stronger growth, for the spread of our flavours and a protected environment.
the rules on food safety and health, environmental conditions and animal welfare are much stricter in europe than in the rest of the world.
the promotion of european agricultural products, both of a high diversity and quality, is essential to ensure the competitiveness and long-term sustainability of the sector.
if, historically, agricultural promotion measures were introduced to deal with agricultural surpluses and then food crises, it is now time to define a policy in this area that encourages quality products, as well as more co2-saving practices that protect biodiversity and are better suited to soil protection.
the european union should also strive to export a sustainable model of agriculture and the products derived from it.
i am thinking of our quality labels, european cuisine, environmental and health standards in production.
i support this report, which aims to simplify the current legal framework and introduce new administrative and technical requirements, particularly in the areas of safety and the environment.
the new safety and environmental measures will benefit all european citizens, as reductions in accidents and co2 emissions are expected to be achieved.
new administrative and technical rules were therefore needed to ensure that these vehicles are better protected and reduce their emissions.
in addition, new pollution standards will be applied gradually between 2016 and 2020. finally, the entry into force of this regulation in 2016 will see the end of the 100 hp bridging of french motorcycles, which had never really proven its effectiveness in road safety and which could pose problems of insurance coverage, in the case of an unbridged vehicle purchased abroad for example.
the new regulation, which has just been approved by the european parliament, will establish harmonised rules for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry tractors (tractors, trailers and tracked vehicles) while ensuring a high level of road safety through the introduction of new technologies such as anti-lock braking (abs), occupational safety and environmental protection.
these provisions will improve safety and the environment through harmonisation of rules at eu level.
as captured well in your report, public concerns over health and environmental risks have led a number of member states to consider adapting their national legislation to deal with shale gas projects.
unless environmental and health risks are addressed in a proper way, and people are convinced that they are, then the development of this industry will not last.
i have discussed these issues in depth with my colleagues günther oettinger, who is sitting here next to me, and of course also connie hedegaard, and the commission has now included in its work programme for next year, 2013, a new initiative that will strive to provide maximum legal clarity and predictability for market operators and citizens and prevent, reduce and manage climate and environmental risks in line with public expectations and in a harmonised manner across the european union.
in addition to what my colleague mr potočnik has said, i would like to thank the two committees and the two leading members for the reports which show how varied the subject of unconventional energy resources, gas and oil, particularly shale gas, is.
it is about environmental protection and also about climate aspects, it is about energy policy, it is about industrial aspects and also about social issues.
we must not be fooled: as in many other matters of energy policy, we have had a wide range of opinions and interests on shale gas.
some member states are categorically against it, others have moratoriums, and some see shale gas as an important contribution to solving their energy independence.
they are increasingly being integrated into the energy strategy by japan following the shutdown of nuclear power plants after fukushima and also by europe with existing and planned lng terminals.
we will therefore continue to develop our policy of completing the internal energy market in order to increase security of supply, further develop renewable energy and effectively promote energy efficiency.
shale gas is not a substitute for the internal market, energy efficiency or renewable energy sources.
the commission has deliberately included in its 2013 work programme an initiative to be attributed to several commissioners - mr potočnik, mr hedegaard, mr tajani, mr barnier and myself - which will deal with the relevant environmental, climate, energy and industrial aspects.
does poland intend to apply subsidiarity to environmental rules?
mr president, commissioners, first of all, the exploitation of shale gas is totally incompatible with a genuine policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the health and environmental impact of hydraulic fracturing is totally unacceptable.
the consequences of this technique on the environment, on health and on water resources cannot be accepted in europe and they are also the reason for very strong opposition from the population.
in the united states, the companies that are exploiting the gas are currently facing the greatest financial difficulties and now that the americans are going to make methane recovery compulsory - because yes, gentlemen, you who asked this question earlier, methane emissions are a real problem - it is obvious that the cost will be even higher.
finally, i would ask my colleagues to reject the report presented by the committee on industry, research and energy completely and, of course, in any case to vote in favour of deleting certain paragraphs, such as those which say that shale gas plays a central role in the transformation of the energy system or those which refer to missing or incorrect information to explain the opposition of the people.
no one can afford to check your figures, but don't you think it's more likely that the economic recession is the cause of the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the united states?
there are, as you know, since germany is a pioneer, techniques for extracting coal which are now much cleaner than those which we had in the past and which therefore allow a considerable reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
i ask you to read them carefully, because the environmental report shows very clearly that there are risks of pollution of surface water and groundwater and risks of depletion of water resources.
the land grab can be devastating, and there can be air pollution.
it is not a question of being for or against shale gas, since decisions on the energy mix are a matter of national sovereignty.
these reports show that there are clearly identified shortcomings in the legislation: the inadequacy of the water framework directive, the management of effluent to be integrated into the mining waste directive, and the integration of hydraulic fracturing into the environmental impact assessment directive.
they will have to prove that they will have sufficient financial guarantees to support the application of the polluter-pays principle in the event of environmental damage.
that is why it is not for industry to decide our energy future, but for citizens.
at the same time, in relation to the risk posed by co2 - which was the subject of questions earlier - shale gas will not replace all energy sources.
we must develop renewable energy.
what is your response, particularly in terms of energy choices, to the impacts of shale gas exploration and exploitation on soil stability?
the first is the cost of energy and competitiveness.
we are in a period of serious economic crisis: many of our citizens are very concerned about the increase in the price of energy and we know that the energy bill is a fundamental element of the competitiveness of our companies.
the second reason is energy independence and diversification.
what i hope is that, in compliance with subsidiarity and with a strict regulatory framework, respectful of the environment, water resources and security, we can allow member states who wish to take advantage of this opportunity.
mr president, commissioner, nobody has mentioned it yet, but i think something important happened on sunday, as the world bank presented its report, announcing that by 2060 global warming would be over four degrees.
that means that we will have to take very strict measures, not just to reduce, but to really divide by two or three our emissions.
what this means in very concrete terms is that today, faced with this global and european challenge, we will be forced not to use all the energy available if we do not want to cause global warming to explode.
i say this because everyone knows today that methane has a thirty times greater effect on global warming than co2, and that for shale gas, between four and eight percent of the methane escapes into nature from the well to the pipelines.
i believe that the choice of the energy mix and the authorization of shale gas extraction are national matters.
this is in line with the principle of technological neutrality which i advocate in the context of the energy roadmap 2050 debate.
it is nevertheless the responsibility of the european union to define rules at european level to ensure environmental protection and high levels of safety.
we must not close the door on this source of energy, given the developments on the world energy market and the challenges to europe's competitiveness.
the automotive sector needs a new impetus with the vehicles of tomorrow which should be cleaner, safer, more energy efficient and therefore new research and new factories are needed.
i propose, commissioner, that in coordination with the member states, moratoriums be decided on all plans for dismissals and closures of firms, that any company which receives public funds from the european union, but also from national governments, and which dismisses or relocates, should return this money, and that a new public credit system supported by european funds and the european central bank should be able to promote innovative, ecological and job-creating projects.
too often, the european budget is heard as an expenditure budget, but it is in fact an investment budget, a strategic instrument to support smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
the aim is to regulate the tariff contingencies and operating licences specific to timber exports in order to ensure fair trade while maintaining a high level of sustainability in this sector.
the aim is to regulate the tariff contingencies and operating licences specific to timber exports in order to ensure fair trade while maintaining a high level of sustainability in this sector.
however, this exploitation is only possible in strict compliance with european environmental legislation such as the water, air and impact studies directives.
i voted in favour of the report on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil shale extraction activities.
in this sense, i am trying to adopt a pragmatic approach: i am opposed to hydraulic fracturing, which is banned in france, because of the disastrous effects it would have on the environment, particularly on groundwater.
since the member states are sovereign in the conduct of their energy policy, i could not support mrs rivasi's amendment.
however, i am not opposed to the idea of prospecting or research to improve our knowledge of our energy potential.
it is worth noting that these resources could help us to reduce our energy dependence and lower the price of gas.
it is therefore better not to close the door on the extraction hypothesis, but not at the expense of nature or renewable energies, which represent the future of our consumption model.
in our view, as french socialists, national and european legislation must be extremely strict, for example on hydraulic fracturing, which is the only known method of extraction at present, in order to prevent any damage to the environment.
this is not to deny the importance of energy independence and the place of energy costs in the competitiveness of industry.
our priority must be to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment.
in the face of the immense challenges of energy independence, employment, competitiveness and rebalancing the external balance, such an attitude is regrettable.
their main fault is that they attempt to circumvent or trample on the energy sovereignty of the states recognized by the treaties.
that is why i voted today in favour of a very cautious approach, given the risks and negative impacts of hydraulic fracturing on the climate, the environment and health.
the report stresses that the choice of energy mix and the authorisation of shale gas extraction are matters for national competence and calls for strict control of drilling technologies, particularly hydraulic fracturing.
the aim is to avoid any damage to the environment.
he acknowledges that this activity can have dangerous consequences for the environment and human health, without drawing the necessary consequences.
i welcome the fact that hydraulic fracturing is not explicitly authorised, that research authorisation is better regulated and that strict implementation of existing waste water treatment standards is called for.
today, we don't know how to measure the environmental and health impacts of these gases, but we do know that hydraulic fracturing techniques require a lot of drinking water and chemicals.
i have supported it wholeheartedly, because i believe that we must be able to know both the environmental risks associated with the extraction of this resource and the competitive advantages it can bring to our economy.
we can oppose hydraulic fracturing, which poses serious problems that cannot be ignored, but it is not reasonable to close the door categorically to shale gas, while the energy bill of households and businesses keeps increasing and our industries lose competitiveness.
however, this exploitation is only possible in strict compliance with european environmental legislation, such as the water, air and impact studies directives.
in addition, the text provides details on the attractiveness of shale gas in terms of energy independence and competitiveness of the european continent.
i voted in favour of the report on industry, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil shale.
in the context of the energy roadmap 2050 debate, it is essential to uphold the principle of technological neutrality with regard to unconventional hydrocarbons.
our strategy must be twofold: on the one hand, in the name of the principle of subsidiarity, the european union cannot impose or prohibit the use of one or another type of energy, and on the other hand, the union must guarantee rules that guarantee a high level of environmental protection.
we must therefore continue to research innovative exploration techniques in order to improve our knowledge of our energy resources.
in the interests of diversification of energy sources and security of supply, i support the use of shale gas in a reasonable manner and with all the necessary precautions.
i share the view that each member state should be able to decide on its sources of energy supply, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
this report, entitled 'industry, energy and other aspects of shale and bituminous shale', presents a balanced and dispassionate approach.
the report stresses that the choice of energy mix and the authorisation of shale gas extraction are matters for national competence and calls for strict control of drilling technologies, particularly hydraulic fracturing.
the aim is to avoid any damage to the environment.
it calls for the exploitation of shale gas in the name of international competition and the diversification of energy sources within the future single energy market which the report advocates.
europe's limited hydrocarbon resources force us to import a large part of the energy we consume: oil comes from african countries, while most of our gas comes from russia.
the exploitation of these gases could restore a degree of energy independence to the eu, reduce the energy bill of businesses and households and lighten our trade balance.
that is why i supported this report, which calls for an unbiased and informed approach to this challenge, both economic and environmental.
closing the door to shale gas is closing the taps of an energy that could be strategic.
the only reason for satisfaction is that the sonik report on the environmental consequences of shale gas and oil shale extraction activities received a large majority.
it recalls that while each member state has the right to choose its energy mix, all member states should have robust rules on all exploitation techniques, including hydraulic fracturing.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
to abandon this energy now without even pursuing research would be a major strategic mistake.
but on the other hand, to give a blank check to the exploitation of this resource when the technology is not yet developed would be an environmental folly.
but as they stand, their exploitation puts the environment at risk, and it would be irresponsible to do so.
on this burning issue, it is with a sense of environmental issues, of the urgent need to develop our country and our industry to meet the needs of our people, that i have decided to vote for these reports.
in the present state of scientific knowledge, it is certainly undeniable that large-scale commercial extraction by hydraulic fracturing would be contrary to environmental protection.
however, this should not jeopardize scientific research into this energy, which could enable france and europe to achieve a certain degree of energy independence.
a sound, public and secure control of shale gas and oil extraction in the years ahead (provided that safer extraction methods are mastered) would not only be an asset for our industry but would also help to bring down the cost of energy for a significant number of households.
i understand the fears and apprehensions which arise from the discovery and use of non-conforming extraction methods for this new energy source, and these fears are justified.
the european parliament adopted two resolutions on shale gas and oil shale: one on industrial and energy aspects and the other on environmental impacts.
where the request falls within the competence of the european union, it is found that it concerns a very large majority of environmental concerns such as biodiversity loss and pollution.
in 2011, for example, it focused its work on issues related to the environment, human rights and justice.
i supported in plenary the report by my colleague giles chichester on the activities of the committee on petitions for 2011. this report was adopted on 21 november 2012. this own-initiative report lists 998 petitions declared admissible in 2011. the rapporteur notes that many of these petitions relate to citizens' growing concerns about the climate, the environment and the protection of biodiversity.
and i think that when future generations judge, through the eyes of the historian, what our generation has done, it's largely on the issue of climate change that we will be judged.
we all know how difficult things are, and having attended three climate conferences, i have been able to judge for myself.
because beyond the challenge of climate change, there is also the political challenge of europe.
at a time when we are facing so many criticisms all over the world, i believe that we can not only be initiators but also demonstrators of how we can reconcile the economic question, economic development, the interests of our companies and new industrial sectors with, at the same time, a fierce fight against climate change, that is, for the survival of future generations and of humanity.
there is no other, because for the countries of the south, development issues come before climate issues, and for the united states, the economic issue comes before the climate issue.
this is not the green group's doha preparedness brochure but it is, as you know, the world bank report, which adds that 'fighting global warming is an economic opportunity'.
here again, the union seems to be stumbling: whether on aviation, on climate change linked to agrofuels, on the restriction of the carbon market or on hot air, the latest decisions of the european union are bad decisions.
fleet modernisation and renewal are essential to ensure both the competitiveness and sustainability of our fishing model.
the average age of the european fleet is now 27 years, which raises serious environmental and safety problems.
as architects of this policy, we must always bear in mind that each pillar of sustainable development determines the balance and strength of this edifice.
these five reports examine the main objectives of the future cfp, namely maximum sustainable yield, the fight against discards and the allocation of fishing rights.
if, as we hope, the new fisheries policy is based on sustainable fishing criteria, the interests of small-scale fishermen will be safeguarded and strengthened.
only a fisheries policy firmly geared to the conservation of the marine environment, to the protection and renewal of stocks, will ensure the future of thousands of small fishermen and, with them, the future of the world food to which small-scale artisanal fishermen make a decisive contribution.
the renewable energy sector is particularly strategic, as it is a growth driver for the future.
we have been told for years that the fight against climate change, renewable energy targets, green industry, the green economy, would be the pillars of european growth, of the european economy.
europe had leadership, ambitious renewable energy targets, with a strong renewable energy industry at its side.
today we are losing this second leg, as a real trade war is raging because it is a strategic sector between china and the united states, on a key issue of competitiveness and the energy future of renewable energies.
it is necessary that this fishery be conducted in such a way that the conservation status of the entire baltic stock, including therefore all salmon stocks in the river, remains favourable, and in such a way as to ensure sustainable exploitation.
the principle of maximum sustainable yield must guide our action in the regulation of recreational fisheries and the management of the baltic salmon stock.
in this sense, it is urgent to ensure the sustainable exploitation of this species in order to preserve its genetic diversity.
the aim of this proposal is to establish a multiannual fisheries management plan for the baltic salmon stocks in order to ensure sustainable exploitation of the stock.
preserving our fish stocks, and particularly salmon, is not just about protecting a species, it is also about protecting our environment, our culture and our fishermen.
this will help to maintain the baltic sea stock, but also the river salmon stock, and thus ensure sustainable exploitation.
the initiative therefore aims specifically to ensure sustainable exploitation of baltic salmon, but also to ensure that the integrity and genetic diversity of the stock is preserved.
i voted in favour of this report because i am aware that fisheries management is an important factor in ensuring the sustainability of marine resources.
in order to limit the exploitation of salmon stocks in the baltic sea, a management plan is needed to allow for sustainable exploitation and genetic diversity.
the european parliament has received four reports which reinforce the consideration of sustainable development in the common fisheries policy.
this type of fishing, if properly managed, can make a major contribution to the development of alternative forms of fishing, leading to sustainable growth in fisheries-dependent regions.
it aims to make the technical measures established on a transitional basis sustainable.
it is essential to ensure better visibility for this sector with stable and sustainable rules.
the positive results of the adoption of local technical measures based on scientific advice justify the extension of those rules and their adjustment in the light of the realities of climate change and the evolution of certain species.
the european parliament has received four reports which reinforce the consideration of sustainable development in the common fisheries policy.
the gallagher report proposes the extension of technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources to ensure that the manner and place of fishing activity meet the criteria of sustainable development.
this practice is problematic from an environmental point of view (threatening the survival of certain species), from an economic point of view (a huge waste of a potential food source) and from a moral point of view (unnecessary suffering of animals).
the fishery for this animal, whose presence at sea is necessary to preserve the balance of the marine ecosystem, has been regulated, in particular with a view to ensuring the conservation of its species.
however, while the obligation to land only fins attached to the body of the animal should facilitate controls, i remain convinced that the lack of resources allocated to such controls - on this issue but also for other species - remains the central problem in the area of overfishing, to the detriment of the environment and the overwhelming majority of fishermen who do their work with seriousness and courage and are faced with unfair competition that breaks all the rules.
particular attention was paid to the risks of carbon leakage which would harm the competitiveness of european companies.
the european union is a leader in environmental matters.
global warming has been gradually and simply removed from the political and media agenda for many months.
yet, more unanimously than ever, international experts have only confirmed their most pessimistic fears about climate change.
the european union, at the forefront of the environmental fight, must redouble its efforts and its teaching at international meetings.
but let us not be naive, i think it is essential to bring up the question of a carbon tax at the borders of our continent in order to prevent any distortion of competition for our european industries which cannot unilaterally assume ecological commitments.
by voting for this resolution, we wish to reiterate that we retain strong ambitions for the doha climate conference.
i am particularly in favour of developing our climate diplomacy.
this resolution repeatedly mentions climate diplomacy and the importance of speaking with one voice.
the climate issue must be addressed in a transversal way, including through industrial policy: the effects on industry and how industry can play its part are an absolutely essential aspect of these negotiations.
it is also important to emphasise that climate finance must be able to come from a variety of sources: the role of the private sector is not to be dismissed.
we need to be able to combine economic growth and climate management.
after durban, this new climate change conference must be an opportunity to translate past commitments into practical application as soon as possible.
it is in this sense that i voted in favour of this resolution, to raise the bar and pursue the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020, in the interests of the european citizens.
it is also essential that the major industrialized countries agree to renew the kyoto protocol, which expires at the end of 2012. the resolution also highlights the need to help developing countries, which are often the first to be hit by natural disasters, to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions without increasing their structural vulnerability.
finally, from a european point of view, it is in our interest to take part in this process, given the positive impact that sustainable development could have in terms of new jobs, growth or a reduction in energy dependence.
this resolution supports a binding international agreement on climate change that respects the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
it stresses that the so-called 'developed' countries must provide the so-called 'developing' countries with the necessary means to adapt to and combat climate change, in addition to the aid already provided.
i therefore vote in favour of this text, although i regret that, as always, it is being designed in the context of an enlarged carbon market and not outside this harmful mechanism, the limits of which the text itself recognises.
as the doha summit begins and the kyoto protocol expires at the end of 2012, i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on all states to increase their actions to limit global warming.
current pledges to combat climate change fall short of the measures needed to meet the target of limiting global average warming to 2°c.
in this context, we call for the eu to set a target of reducing its emissions by 30% by 2020, we stress our support for the inclusion of aviation in the european ets, and we call for the issue of emissions from the international shipping sector to be addressed swiftly.
the 18th united nations conference on climate change will be held from 26 november to 7 december 2012 in doha, qatar.
it is part of the continuity of the major international environmental meetings in durban (2011) and rio+20 (2012).
it also stresses that the union must lead by example in honouring its commitments and showing ambition in mitigation and financing and that, therefore, it is the duty of all eu institutions to engage in intensive climate diplomacy in the run-up to the conference.
finally, it recalls a principle which i believe is essential: we must move towards a sustainable economy which takes account of the environment throughout the production cycle.
with this resolution, the european parliament, on the eve of the doha conference on climate change (cop), once again expressed its views on the issues related to the fight against climate change and the extension of the kyoto protocol, which expires at the end of december this year.
parliament expressed particular concern at the latest scientific studies indicating that global warming could be more rapid and more pronounced than expected.
what about the adoption of binding commitments and actions to reduce co2 emissions by all member states?
more generally, it is regrettable that the cop is content to wait until 2015 to take the necessary steps to commit to a determined fight against climate change.
the report describes the developments in our strategic environment, the obstacles to the positive development of european defence cooperation, but also makes proposals to improve the current system.
the report presents the environmental developments and conflicts that are taking place at europe's borders and affecting european security.
the text calls for the establishment of a permanent crisis response system based on existing instruments, and not neglecting any type of threat (cyber, energy, pandemic).
i voted in favour of the report on the role of the common security and defence policy in the event of climate crises and natural disasters.
it is important to consider climate crises as a threat to the stability of the european territory, and to take their prevention into account in our current common security and defence policy, but this must not generate a new administration.
under the guise of responding to climate crises, this report justifies greater military integration of member states under the umbrella of nato and its concept of 'intelligent defence'.
it legitimizes nato as a force for climate security.
i would remind you that the first priority is to combat climate change by implementing ecological planning in european policies.
while strengthening energy cooperation with kazakhstan and encouraging national authorities to align their legislation with that of the wto, the european union wishes to ensure a consistent strengthening of democracy and the rule of law.
the european union's trade policy must be consistent with its overall objectives as set out in the treaty on european union and contribute to sustainable development, employment and social progress in europe and in partner countries, and to a globalisation that respects human and social rights.
the challenge is nothing less than the maintenance of european small-scale fisheries: through the modernisation of the ageing fleet, the encouragement of youth employment, but also through the use of the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) to help the economic and sustainable development of vessels and to support the sector in emergency situations.
the objective of the cfp reform is to move towards more sustainable development, to work towards the conservation of fisheries resources, but we must not forget the economic and social objectives, particularly those of small-scale fishing.
a good reform of the cfp is to strike a balance between sustainable development and economic development.
this report on small-scale and artisanal fishing and the reform of the common fisheries policy is important in that it recalls the importance of 'small' fishing in the eu, in particular in terms of job creation and regional diversity, development, as well as the general refusal of the european parliament to privatise access to fish stocks, the need for a flexible definition of artisanal fishing (what is small-scale in the netherlands is not small-scale in greece), support for the use of environmental and social criteria for granting access to fisheries and market distortion.
it proposes measures based on the three pillars of sustainable management: ecological, economic and social.
the european parliament has received four reports aimed at strengthening the integration of sustainable development into the common fisheries policy (cfp).
i voted in favour of this text because it will contribute to long-term sustainability at the global level, while improving the governance of bilateral fisheries relations.
i believe that it is essential to improve the governance of bilateral fisheries relations and to preserve long-term sustainability at the global level.
it should contribute to long-term sustainability at global level to ensure the sustainable management and conservation of fisheries resources, while improving the governance of bilateral fisheries relations.
it must also work towards sustainable fishing and the conservation of marine biodiversity worldwide.
it must also ensure that the fisheries of the countries with which it negotiates comply with ecological and labour standards.
in a context of cfp reform, where the rules for european fisheries are becoming increasingly stringent, this report aims to promote a sustainable fisheries policy outside the eu's borders, thereby protecting european fisheries from unfair competition, by proposing that fishery products imported into the european union be subject to standards that are closer to its own in terms of ecological and social sustainability.
the european parliament has received four reports aimed at strengthening the integration of sustainable development into the common fisheries policy (cfp).
the third report aims to support the establishment of long-term criteria for 'sustainable fisheries agreements' (sfa) with third countries.
but it should listen to the two thirds of citizens who reject waste, bureaucracy and the euro-globalist ideology.
wouldn't we be more useful if we also spent our energy on other subjects?
they include democratic government, human rights, the rule of law, sustainable development and regional integration.
through the trade pillar we help implement internationally recognised core labour standards and key multilateral environment agreements in central america, and we strengthen the role of civil society.
this trade agreement, which promotes free trade for the greater good of our multinational corporations, ignores any reference to social and environmental standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the 18th climate conference in doha, i would like to say that a new stage has been reached.
described as a consolidation step by the main negotiators, doha is, and will remain, one of the worst summits in the history of climate diplomacy; with a deal that doesn't live up to the emergency.
this summit was not an environmental conference, perhaps an abc fair trade symposium on behalf of industry and the oil and gas states.
it was anything but a conference to fight climate change.
the planet and our societies are on a trajectory of 4 degrees of global warming, which promises a cascade of cataclysmic changes, according to the world bank.
if we are to live up to this distinction, it is time to begin the process of peace with our environment.
the energy star programme has led to the creation of a european label to identify office equipment that meets european environmental requirements.
- i voted in favour of the report on the energy-efficiency labelling programme for office equipment.
this report shall specify the technical amendments to the energy star regulation.
i support this initiative which aims to maintain the necessary consistency with the energy efficiency directive.
i welcome the adoption of this text, which builds on an already successful programme: energy labelling of office equipment allows consumers to better orient their purchases towards environmentally friendly products and will allow them to save money.
i voted in favour of this text which renews for five years the energy star programme for the certification of office equipment.
we must have a clear and effective procedure which benefits manufacturers and companies in the sector on the one hand and consumers on the other, while ensuring better protection of the environment.
i wanted to vote in favour of this text in continuity with my environmental concerns, specifically in the energy field.
the report, which extends an existing agreement between the united states and the european union, will continue efforts to save energy in the tertiary sector through information and awareness-raising for users.
the scarcity of raw materials and the growing pressure from emerging countries to secure their supplies are making europe increasingly dependent on energy-exporting countries.
we also help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and protect the environment.
finally, energy efficiency allows for the development of innovation, which stimulates economic growth and creates jobs.
i therefore approve this regulation, which is the union's way of tackling the energy efficiency of office equipment, such as our computers and printers, which account for a large proportion of total electricity consumption.
energy efficiency is therefore of paramount importance.
i also support the updating of the labelling and quality certification programmes for office equipment in relation to their energy efficiency, which is being carried out by this regulation, which now allows the citizen to buy with full knowledge of the facts.
the agency was set up to deal with pollution caused by the erika oil tanker disaster and has been operational since march 2003. with this text we have extended its powers to include training of seafarers, the fight against piracy and new ways of managing the risks of marine pollution.
the agency, which was set up following the sinking of the erika in 1999, plays a major role in the fight against pollution and piracy at european level.
a gender equality component has been added to the agency's board of directors to give women more room in this still very male-dominated environment.
this report strengthens and enhances the prerogatives of the esam, a structure which has a proven track record in maritime safety and pollution control.
firstly, because it was imperative that the commission should have sufficient means of response to all types of threats that may exist in the marine environment.
the economy, environmental sustainability and human lives of the maritime sectors depend on it.
the agency's experience and effectiveness in preventing and reducing pollution at sea have been demonstrated.
it is therefore a decision that sets the stage for further discussions on whether the eu wants to make the emsa a reference operational organisation to manage all aspects of the fight against marine pollution and the response to maritime disasters.
previously, it was necessary to carry out a registration procedure in all 27 member states, which was a significant waste of time and money for businesses.
however, as in our last vote on the subject, i had already abstained because of the lack of health and environmental guarantees, particularly as regards gmos and the patentability of living things.
previously, it was necessary to carry out a registration procedure in all 27 member states, which was a significant waste of time and money for businesses.
previously, it was necessary to carry out a registration procedure in all 27 member states, which was a considerable waste of time and money for businesses.
it is an intolerable attack on the rights of small farmers and the maintenance of biodiversity.
it makes these safeguard mechanisms really effective by ensuring full respect for labour and environmental law and the transparency of their implementation.
finally, this vote must not make us forget that the real challenge for these territories is a transition to a more diversified and more sustainable economy.
to accept this retreat would be to accept the pressure exerted by the firms chiquita, dole and del monte to increase their profits at the expense of local workers, banana producers in our french overseas departments and territories and our ecosystem.
the main beneficiaries will be european companies and large mining projects with disastrous consequences for local populations, the environment and the origin of countless social conflicts.
the agreement also includes clauses on development cooperation and political dialogue, in order to promote sustainable development, reduce poverty, and consolidate stability by integrating the central american region as a whole.
and while we refuse to see the social and environmental consequences, the clauses called 'democracy and human rights' are only non-binding suggestions.
it goes beyond the simple commercial framework to include political dialogue and cooperation in fields as varied as democracy and human rights, the modernisation of the state and administrations, disarmament, the fight against terrorism, the environment and customs cooperation.
finally, this vote must not make us forget that the real challenge for these territories is a transition to a more diversified and more sustainable economy.
to accept this retreat would be to accept the pressure exerted by the chiquita firms to increase their profits at the expense of local workers, banana producers in our french overseas departments and territories and our ecosystem.
the agreement covers the abolition of customs duties, investment, public procurement and sustainable development services between the union, colombia and peru.
the protection of the environment and biodiversity must not be neglected.
in colombia, 90% of crimes against human rights defenders go unpunished, while in peru, it is estimated that more than 250 environmental conflicts, most often related to mining, are taking place.
despite these critical situations and the opposition of civil society and trade unions as a whole, the european parliament has just voted in favour of an agreement which has no regard for human rights, labour rights and even less for the environment.
this agreement will only increase the competition for raw materials, with catastrophic consequences for local people and their environment.
the agreement was conditional on both countries submitting binding roadmaps for the implementation of labour and environmental clauses.
in addition to being harmful to the colombian, peruvian and european peoples and to the environment, it constitutes an aggression against the bolivian and ecuadorian peoples and their governments.
there is an urgent need to reduce waste in marketing and use of ineffective medicines in order to ensure better health protection for european citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it involves many economic, environmental and public health factors.
it will significantly reduce the co2 emissions emitted by transport operators.
like a majority of the house, i voted for the referral of this text to committee in order to allow the negotiations to resume in a more calm climate in the face of the many fears expressed by the social partners.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the use of radioactive substances.
the commission proposal aims to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around eu airports by reducing aircraft noise at source, land-use planning and management measures, noise abatement operating procedures and operating restrictions.
no fewer than 20 local associations have been set up to highlight the problems caused by noise pollution.
with such a product we could both create a new own resource for the eu and devote a substantial part of it to innovative financing to combat major pandemics, such as hunger, illiteracy or climate change.
for two years now, human rights defenders and trade unions in latin america have been sounding the alarm about the dangers of such trade agreements, which will have devastating effects on indigenous peoples, farmers and the environment.
but we have ignored the calls of ngos and the citizens of peru and colombia by relegating human rights and environmental protection standards to a status of figment in these trade agreements.
so i'm wondering, and secondly, i'm also wondering about the climate.
this climate, we can see it very well - extremely heavy violence, very strong divisions between pro-islamists and anti-islamists - this climate is not conducive to holding a referendum.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
it is also a country of vital strategic importance in the political, energy, economic, environmental and cultural fields.
the energy issue, which is at the heart of the matter, is mentioned only once.
the commission will draw up an action plan for the steel industry by june 2013: this resolution stresses the importance that this action plan should attach to the fight against high energy and raw material prices.
it is therefore necessary to have a long-term european strategy to preserve our human know-how and our production potential, since steel products, starting with steel, are indispensable to many sectors of our industry, such as the automotive, construction, machine tools and energy transport sectors.
we need to coordinate our industrial policies better to prevent the risks of relocation, to encourage research, particularly in ultra-low-carbon steelmaking processes (ulcos).
it is time we imposed more reciprocity in our trade with shared social and environmental standards.
president sarkozy himself had pledged during the presidential campaign to impose a carbon tax on the union's borders, as we already impose on our own companies.
however, the steel industry is not resisting the pressure of unfair competition from certain countries, which are driving down prices by imposing lower social and environmental standards than ours.
this is not sustainable.
i also regret that a very small majority of my colleagues did not have the courage to demand a carbon tax at our borders.
we ask our industry to limit its impact on the environment, so it is only right that we should ask the same of industries that export to our markets.