what is worse, if anything, is that the european council diverted valuable political energy and resources away from facing the reality of the crisis.
we need a change of direction – towards a different future, based on reducing the gap between rich and poor and on new investment to help us work within environmental limits.
– mr president, for a treaty on climate change to be meaningful, all the major emitters in the world must be a part of it.
the durban platform gives us a roadmap for a binding legal treaty to combat climate change.
richer developing countries have agreed to do their bit, and the poorest countries will receive assistance to cope with climate change through a green climate fund.
our greatest ally may yet be the world’s largest emitter of co2 – china’s recent second national assessment report on climate change warns its government that action is urgently needed.
likewise, one has to ask whether the agreement to create a green climate fund and transfer usd 1 billion a year from hard-pressed taxpayers in countries like britain to corrupt third world oligarchies reflects a serious threat of global communism or a happily unattainable fantasy.
but the most significant thing about durban is what was not discussed: climate science.
this is no surprise, as it is now crystal clear that the so-called scientific consensus on man-made global warming simply does not exist.
it is not just a matter of the thousands of independent scientists who dispute the whole theory: even the warmists themselves now admit that the computer models on which the anthropogenic global warming (agw) cult is based are simplistic and flawed.
the more they learn about feedback mechanisms and the complexity of real climate, the more they realise they do not know.
written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) (recast) [07906/2/2011 - c7-0250/2011 - 2008/0241(cod)] (rapporteur: karl-heinz florenz) (a7-0334/2011).
in my view, this recast was proposed by the commission as a consequence of failure – the failure by member states to put in place effective recycling systems for electrical equipment in the 2003-2008 period – because in 2008 over 70% of waste electronics was still being landfilled, incinerated or illegally exported.
i believe that consumers want to be able to recycle and reuse effectively, particularly in this challenging economic environment, so they must have the information and the opportunity to do so.
too much of our waste is ending up polluting the lives of africans.
this is a very toxic waste stream pouring out of europe.
it is immoral on two fronts, financial and environmental: financial because much of the minerals and chemicals we export have been imported into europe and we have paid good money for them – we are wasting what could and should be used again – but also environmental because these countries cannot deal with our waste.
through the burning and physical handling of this toxic waste, vast natural areas, as well as men, women and children, are polluted and chemically burned.
the proposal requires the commission to come forward in three years’ time with a report on how this regulation contributes to sustainable use, particularly for professional users, and i welcome this initiative from parliament.
balancing environmental and consumer protection and promoting the single market are always a regulatory challenge, but i think this proposal has moved us some way forward.
we are all well aware that the rising cost of inputs – most notably for feed, fuel and fertiliser – is putting major pressure on farmers and continues to squeeze their margins in an economic climate that is already difficult, especially for the intensive sectors.
the eu imposes the strictest standards on animal welfare, environmental practices and food safety.
the fact is that the increased concentration of market power downstream of farming, in processing industries, trade companies and supermarkets, and upstream of farming, in terms of increasing costs for fertilisers, energy, feed, seed, water, loans and land rent, is undermining the proper functioning of the food supply chain in europe.
quite the reverse – the market is concentrating further day by day in a world where we are increasingly seeing instability in energy prices, global instability and its political knock-on effects, and climate change making parts of the world wetter, parts of the world drier, and all of the world more climatically unstable.
there is no doubt that many of the issues raised by the report are valuable, but i believe that the greatest contribution that we can make to a sustainable and competitive sector is in producing a common agricultural policy that sees food production and european food security as its aim and objective.
over recent weeks i have been talking to farmers in my own constituency and they see the proposals from the commission as complex, overbearing in terms of environmental objectives and favouring landowners over active food-producing farmers.
in our discussions on cap reform, if we miss the opportunity to provide an environment for increased productivity and one which provides food and supply security, we will only continue to increase price volatility for farmers and consumers.
madam president, i want to focus on the energy aspects of mr bové’s excellent report because improving energy efficiency on our farms is an absolute imperative.
we owe it to our citizens to have a clean environment throughout the whole of the european union.
mr president, this report on waste electrical and electronic equipment seems to strike the right balance in terms of what should be decided at eu level and what should be left to member states.
while it is important to increase the amount of eee being recycled and to reduce the waste, it is equally important that the approach should not be too prescriptive but should give member states the flexibility to choose the most appropriate and achievable target for them.
this report balances usage requirements whilst upholding a high level of protection for human and animal health and the environment.
i would also support the eu’s global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme, which aims to create a capacity for earth observation and the environmental benefits we would hope that it would eventually bestow.
mr president, given the pressures that are already being put on our farmers to produce more food with fewer resources, the report on how to avoid food waste seems to strike the right tone.
the network should also seek to further coordinate research and development into improved technologies for the treatment of waste products, particularly in energy generation.
flat rates reflect neither the actual costs of a product at the end of its service life nor its environmental impact.
− i voted in favour of this important piece of legislation because it is vital to increase the recovery of electronic waste.
dumping electronic and electrical waste in landfill sites causes harmful toxins to be leaked into the environment.
this revision of the 2003 weee directive is a positive step in reducing the pollution that this causes by ensuring that large companies and manufacturers play an active role in recycling waste.
− electronic waste includes tvs, telephones, computers, white goods, and everyday household electrical items from toasters to toys.
last year, the south london waste partnership managed some of the highest performing reuse and recycle centres in the eu, with up to 75 % of the electrical waste brought to these sites being reused or recycled.
i believe that the existing systems in the uk effectively manage our waste and therefore would normally shy away from any interference from the eu.
my constituency of london is home to a number of companies who use products such as disinfectant and pest-control products, which for human health and environmental reasons require a certificate of authorisation.
− i welcome this new own-initiative report which identifies problems upstream of farm production, focusing on rising costs of purchased farm inputs over the past decade in the fields of energy, machinery, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds, and water.
rising energy prices, as well as the mounting price of feed, mean that farmers are being squeezed at both ends of the supply chain.
this issue has far-reaching implications for families across the uk, especially in the current economic climate.
not only are there serious financial implications for the consumer in relation to food wastage, but there are also far-reaching issues surrounding the wastage of water, energy and packaging used in food production, transportation and storage.
all of this goes to waste when we throw away perfectly good food.
the london food board works hard to raise awareness of waste amongst both individuals and businesses.
household initiatives include residents using a specially provided kitchen caddy to collect food waste which is then sent for composting.
similarly, businesses are being encouraged to sign a ‘food waste pyramid’ which asks them to avoid buying surplus food, redistribute any unwanted food to charities and pass food unfit for human consumption to livestock.
i therefore voted for this report as i believe we can share best practice across the eu on reducing the quantity of food waste that is being dumped into landfill.
i must also condemn the proposals to waste money on the european capital of sport at this time of austerity.
i am involved in parliament with waste management via my membership of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and i have to say how interesting and refreshing it was to read this report from a slightly different perspective, because it does take out a lot of what i might call the vested interests (and i mean that in the nicest possible way) – people who have their views and have had them for a long time and have worked very hard to get what they want through.
there are very few subjects for me as a constituency mep that i get quite so much passion from my voters about as waste management.
it is about a waste framework directive.
many of you will remember my predecessor, the lady that i replaced in this parliament – caroline jackson – who was the rapporteur on the waste framework directive.
just on one point: i am happy to defend nuclear energy.
it is for this reason that i support the report’s proposal for the development of a coherent eu approach, to treat the brics as a single bloc and to also seek to establish partnerships with each of the countries within the bloc, which will prove to be invaluable when responding to global challenges such as climate change, terrorism and, of course, the financial crisis.
it is time that we use all technology available to us and see this as a huge way of being able to embrace technology and deal with our waste effectively.
madam president, i voted with the ecr group in favour of the report on the application of the waste management directive.
the european parliament receives many petitions, including from the united kingdom, concerning issues of waste management and the infringement of the eu directives that govern it.
we also agree that guidance should be given as to the location of the landfill sites with relation to local housing, schools and health facilities and that there should be better inspections and more consultation when waste facilities are in their planning stages.
furthermore i agree, particularly now that there is clean, high-temperature incineration technology available, that it is preferable to burn waste rather than placing it in landfill sites, especially given the increasing proportion of our waste that is now being recycled and, as i said, the technological improvements which are now being developed in this area.
we certainly do not need any more eu agencies for waste management; i think it is time to move forward.
madam president, the millennium development goals set out a laudable collection of aims that the international community has pledged itself to achieve by 2015. for these to be realised, however, an essential prerequisite has to be fulfilled first, and that is universal access to modern and sustainable domestic power sources for the developing world’s population.
such access would have obvious benefits in the fields of health, the environment and economic development.
madam president, i did vote for this report but only after very careful consideration, not because i do not believe that the poorest people in developing countries should have access to affordable energy – i very firmly do believe that – but because i do not believe that it is appropriate for the eu to seek to control how this comes about.
let us not set out prescribed routes to energy development.
energy is a market and the best way to supply and develop it is through market forces.
we are as a group strongly in favour of the protection of national fiscal sovereignty in order to promote a low-tax competitive business environment throughout the european union.
i represent the snp, a party which opposes weapons of mass destruction, in principle, and rejects nuclear energy as a viable energy source.
− i agree that member states need to ensure better implementation of waste management policy.
the northern ireland waste management strategy agreed that strong government leadership and effective implementation are crucial to success.
as well as making an important contribution to sustainable development, waste management is being reflected in many areas of northern ireland government policy.
it is the responsibility of individual member states to apply the principles of sustainable development to waste management in ways that protect and enhance the natural and physical environment and the use of resources and energy as efficiently as possible.
in northern ireland we view waste as a valuable resource and by 2020 we will be recycling and composting nearly 50% of our household waste.
− i voted for this report, which encourages the commission to fully recognise the linkage of effective environmental legislation regarding historical heritage sites and the conservation and promotion of biodiversity – such as that contained in the water framework directive and the habitats and wild birds directives – with the eia and strategic environmental assessment directives and with legislation regarding the management of waste.
with the correct investment in efficient waste processing, we can provide opportunities for both employment and revenue enhancement while ensuring respect for the environment through reuse, recycling and recovery of energy from waste.
in addition, i also support a common eu standard for colour-coding categories of waste for sorting and recycling.
this should simplify the process, in the hope of making it easier for citizens to understand waste processing, and would help to increase recycling rates.
the objective of universal energy access by 2030 is a worthy one and i support the aims of this report.
− i voted for this report, which points out that the mdgs will not be achieved unless substantial progress is made on improving energy access, which requires an estimated annual investment of usd 48 billion by 2030, which is equivalent to around 3% of the global investment in energy infrastructure projected over the period to 2030 and would result in a modest increase in co2 emission of 0.7 % by 2030.
in writing.
− i supported this report which explored avenues for universal energy access.
− this report highlights many of the tools that the eu can put in place to ensure that everyone has access to energy.
the report builds on the un target of universal energy access by 2030, which will have a huge impact on the lives of millions of people in the developing world.
access to energy will have a positive affect in achieving the millennium development goals and i fully support this report as it brings attention to this important debate.
as the report states, i hope that the commission will now issue a communication on development cooperation in support of universal energy access.
as an mep for london, the eu’s leading financial centre, it is my duty to protect national fiscal sovereignty so that the uk is able to provide a competitive business environment.
this debate is important because it sets a precedent for the future, for the setting of long-term management plans – which has been recognised as crucial to the whole reform of the common fisheries policy – and showing that we have sustainable fish for the future.
if we are to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015, we have got to get the reformed fishing regulation through as quickly as possible, and the commission is going to have to come forward with long-term management plans in rapid succession, which must clear the parliamentary process in rapid succession.
we need multi-annual plans for a future sustainable fishery in european waters, so horse mackerel has to be sorted out: break the log-jam and then let us get ahead with a proper way of working between the three eu institutions.
the prince of wales’ think-tank, the international sustainability unit, specifies that there is no one-size-fits-all solution to the problem.
the report also highlights the importance of managing the marine ecosystem as a whole, rather than targeting individual species, which can have a knock-on effect on other stocks.
mr president, over the past two years the pelagic regional advisory council and others have exuded a great deal of energy in the development of a multiannual plan for the western stock of horse mackerel.
if environmental and social sustainability is to be achieved, i think that decentralisation has to be at the top of the agenda and that returning real management power to fishing nations would ensure that those with most to gain from successful conservation would have, for the first time, the incentive to make it happen.
i want to thank the commissioner for his energy in pursuing this.
mr president, while i am impressed, as always, by the energy behind the commissioner’s words – and commissioner barnier and i work very closely together – i still do not think that he got to the heart of my question.
similarly the eur 7.5 million given for fisheries support is good for the sustainability of the sector.
it is called creating ecological focus areas: 7% comes out of farming.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change forecasts warming of an average of 0.2°c per decade.
these decisions to enhance the sustainability of public finances also contribute towards creating the necessary conditions for the potential introduction of stability bonds.
all of the energy currently being devoted to drafting and ratifying a new treaty that is completely irrelevant to the ongoing crisis would be better employed drafting and implementing a plan for the orderly withdrawal of greece from the euro, including carefully prepared support for the banks that will be most affected.
that is the sustainable solution and everything else is just a very expensive way of further kicking the can down the road.
this would be particularly important for farmers in giving them a better sense of certainty and stability in the current economic climate.
i also took exception to the report’s needless call for a tax on financial transactions to enhance sustainable job creation.
the report calls on the european council to set up a tax on financial transactions to enhance sustainable job creation.
this important resolution will enable these people to continue benefiting from the scheme at least until the end of 2013. in the current economic climate schemes such as this are vital in helping to guarantee the welfare of eu citizens.
it further aims to ‘reduce the union's carbon footprint by enhancing the technical efficiency of wireless communication networks and applications’.
may i remind this house that, in approving the report by the special committee on the policy challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013 (sure), we called for the parliamentary seat to be kept under review?
the house of history is a colossal waste of taxpayers’ money that should be stopped.
– mr president, gmes has a vital role to play, particularly in the fight against climate change.
it will deliver accurate scientific information about how climate change is affecting the planet, the land, the sea and the air.
climate change affects us all in different ways and all eu member states need access to gmes.
the primary aim of the european earth monitoring programme, gmes, is to provide information services which give access to accurate data and information in the fields of environment and security.
in practice this means managing natural resources and biodiversity, observing the state of the oceans, monitoring the chemical composition of our atmosphere and providing essential support in the event of disasters such as tsunamis, famine, oil spills, etc., and very serious accidents.
mr president, sustainable fishing policy should be at the heart of all eu policy formulation in this area.
it is important that we develop a strategy based on the latest scientific evidence, which will provide the maximum sustainable yield, whilst keeping in line with the goals of the common fisheries policy.
it is therefore sensible that this strategy is based on a rule of harvest control, looking at trends on where their eggs are abundant so that the sustainable exploitation of stocks can be achieved.
we, as a group, agree with the aim of the report itself and we feel that it is important that the marine biomass of western horse mackerel is maintained at a level that will ensure that it can be exploited in a sustainable way and that will also ensure that it provides the highest possible long-term yield for our consumers.
mr president, i voted for this resolution because i am committed to restoring and then maintaining fish stocks at the levels that can produce maximum sustainable yields.
we need to have a fisheries policy which keeps conservation and sustainability issues in mind, particularly as the current fisheries policy has failed to meet any of its targets.
global sustainable fishing is for the public good, has always been for the public good and will continue to be for the public good.
mr president, i voted alongside my group, the ecr, in favour of the oral question on the future of the global monitoring for environment and security programme as we believe that it is a key part of the european space strategy in general.
we believe that monitoring of the sea, land and atmospheric environment is extremely important and that gmes plays a vital role in this regard.
it is important to remind ourselves that under the terms of the plan of implementation adopted at the united nations world summit in johannesburg in 2002, the european union is committed to maintaining or restoring fish stocks to levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield, with the aim of achieving the goals for depleted stocks on an urgent basis and where possible not later than 2015. this must also apply to horse mackerel stocks.
− i welcome this report, which underlines that the existence of healthy fish stocks and healthy marine ecosystems and the preservation of marine biodiversity are in themselves common goods which are only produced if fish stocks are being managed in a sustainable way and unnecessary negative impact on the environment is minimised.
as the commission is currently reviewing the eu’s legal framework, we would urge it to take fully into account the lessons from fukushima and the stress tests; a rushed piece of legislation could have negative consequences for both safety and energy security.
in making this decision, no research to assess the safety, congestion and pollution impact has been taken.
the european council has wasted considerable energy on a treaty that will make no practical difference to the fundamentals, whilst taking decisions at the same time that will condemn the greek people to a generation of poverty.
the european economy has to be put on a path that will equip it for future challenges, for example investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency projects that we know will create thousands of sustainable jobs as well as protecting the environment.
we need a long-term plan for financial, social and environmental recovery.
cooperative banks have shown high levels of sustainability and resilience during the financial crisis, thanks to their cooperative business model.
cooperative enterprises also provide high-quality, inclusive and crisis-resilient employment, often with high ratios of female and migrant employment and contribute towards the sustainable economic and social development of an area by providing local, non-relocatable jobs.
i think that it will help in terms of the social and environmental stability of the cocoa industry, but i also express grave concern at the existence of child labour in the industry.
we cannot tackle overcapacity if we use taxpayers’ money to subsidise the construction of new fishing vessels or the modernisation of existing vessels or indeed, as isabella lövin said, the upgrading of engines, supposedly to make them more fuel efficient and to cut co2 emissions but probably to make them more effective at catching fish.
mr president, the eff has eur 4.5 billion to spend on fishing over the period 2007 to 2013 covering scrapping of fishing vessels, aquaculture, inland fishing, sustainability and administration of the fund.
ultimately, if after closing all the chapters the icelandic people in a referendum decide to join the eu, this country will be a model eu member state and will hopefully entice norway to join the eu as efta would no longer be sustainable without iceland.
this fund is one of the financial tools at the eu’s disposal that can be used to help contribute to regional development and also deliver the aims of the common fisheries policy, such as ensuring the conservation and sustainability of fish stocks and the long-term viability of the fishing sector.
it is time to cut the waste from the eu budget.
moreover, the proposal for the establishment of ‘erasmus of judges’ networks seems to be wholly unnecessary and a complete waste of eu resources.
the new agreement’s objectives are to promote international cooperation in the world cocoa economy; provide an appropriate framework for discussion on all cocoa matters among governments and with the private sector; contribute to the strengthening of the national cocoa economies of member countries; strive towards obtaining fair prices, leading to equitable economic returns to both producers and consumers; promote a sustainable cocoa economy in economic, social and environmental terms; promote transparency in the world cocoa economy through the collection, analysis and dissemination of relevant statistics and the undertaking of appropriate studies; strive for the elimination of trade barriers; promote and encourage the consumption of chocolate and cocoa-based products; and encourage members to enhance cocoa quality.
overall, the agreement intends to bring more transparency and sustainability into a sector on which 50 million livelihoods throughout the world depend.
the uk opposes the current increase in iceland’s mackerel quota, as this is not sustainable and is damaging british interests.
mr president, kazakhstan is a geopolitically strategic country in central asia with large energy reserves.
the introduction of sharia law in 12 states, in contradiction of the secular, federal constitution, also causes widespread fear amongst christians in the north and there are increasing concerns about the long-term sustainability of nigeria as a unitary state.
it is just going to waste money and overstretch our very depleted military forces.
if these are the steps we have to take to develop a low carbon economy – drilling a few holes in the ground – it does not seem that difficult to me.
endorsement of the commission’s roadmap for a competitive low carbon economy by 2050 provides the framework for measures to enable us to reduce our emissions of carbon dioxide by more than 80% over the next few decades.
because i, together with this house, believe that global warming presents a threat to billions on this planet in the coming decades, that is something important to us all.
but i accept what the polish environment minister said in his letter to colleagues at the environment council last week.
he had some good arguments, saying, for example, that europe, with only 12% of the world’s emissions, cannot solve the problems of the world.
he also said that we must be careful not to lose industry, and that is also correct: we do not want to lose jobs overseas as a result of the measures we take to deal with climate change.
but let us not exaggerate this; let us not pretend that we have lost most of these jobs because of climate change measures – they have gone because of many, many other reasons, not because of the emissions trading system or anything like it.
they have done a brilliant job and not simply reduced their emissions but made their vehicles more fuel-efficient so that they are cheaper to drive, with consumers thereby getting a better deal.
frankly, if the arguments of the polish environment minister had been applied, we would not have got to that situation now.
do people in poland really think that if they are building a coal-fired power station now, with a lifetime of 30 or 40 years, we will not be insisting that our measures be enforced over that period to reduce its co2 emissions?
by 2050 we will have a low carbon economy for the simple reason that we will largely have run out of carbon.
in agriculture, before the age of oil, for every calorie of energy invested by man, horse or ox, the average return was one-and-a-half calories.
that is an input of 20 calories of oil energy for machinery, fertilisers and pesticides for every calorie of food produced.
this is the real carbon crisis which we need to address.
if we continue to fail to do so, today’s children will look back in despair at all the time and energy that our generation wasted trying to kill the wrong pig.
mr president, when we talk about climate change all too often we concentrate on the challenges rather than the opportunities.
cutting greenhouse emissions must go hand in hand with creating green jobs.
i welcome this report’s call to increase the eu competitiveness in the low carbon economy.
sustainable industry can drive the recovery, deliver energy security and help us meet our climate change targets.
london is also the world centre for carbon finance.
managing emissions is one of the fastest growing sections in the financial service industry.
the eu should not interfere with the carbon markets.
a readjustment which removes carbon allowances from the eu emissions trading system could be dangerous.
this policy threatens our energy security while forcing up costs and undermining competitiveness.
high energy prices are driving industry, jobs and investment out of the eu altogether and blocking economic recovery.
ironically these industries go to other jurisdictions with lower environmental standards so in one policy we damage our economies and increase global emissions.
i would ask the house to remember that i am not asking you today to support the report that was carried in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety by a small majority.
firstly, the emissions trading scheme (ets).
when we look at the green economy or the low carbon economy, i do not like to talk about wind turbines, as that is too easy.
these engines can allow us to meet the aspirations of travel but do so by using less fuel and producing fewer emissions.
what is the eu’s approach with a view to further progress at the global, national, regional and local levels in promoting solutions for water, including with a view to fighting poverty and climate change?
climate patterns are definitely changing; airborne vectors are becoming more prevalent.
mr president, along with the rest of the ecr group i abstained on the report on the competitive low-carbon economy for 2050. as an idea in itself this is a good one for many reasons, such as combating climate change and sparing our finite hydrocarbon resources.
unfortunately the report asks for the commission to bring forward the measures necessary to achieve the 2030 objectives rather too quickly and also calls upon the commission to use somewhat radical interventionist measures in order to address the market failings of the emissions trading system.
some of these measures included putting aside a significant amount of carbon allowances and including air transport in emissions trading.
the controversial content was subsequently watered down, and, while as a group we felt that what was finally proposed in the compromise package rendered it more acceptable than before, we still do not feel that we could accept the report’s climate mainstreaming provisions, particularly in the agricultural sphere and in the area of regional funding, which is why overall we abstained.
mr president, every contiguous country has felt the pressure of putinite revanchism and energy diplomacy: the baltic states, belarus, ukraine, moldavia, georgia – most spectacularly in 2008 – and azerbaijan.
while public health and environmental protection are put forward by the report as the main priorities for water management policy, and rightly so, we welcome the fact that the report also recognises the role that access to clean water plays in securing peace and cooperation in conflict zones, and we support strongly the call for the implementation of international agreements for the shared management of surface waters and ground water that cross international boundaries.
tackling climate change and promoting technological innovation are key priorities for liberal democrats in the uk, and this report serves to emphasise the potential for economic growth that can be unlocked by making the transition to a low carbon economy.
it is crucial that we face the challenges of climate change, rising oil prices, and political instability in oil-producing countries head on; making the investments in energy efficiency and renewables in europe will help stimulate our economy, reduce energy prices for ordinary citizens, and develop the economic and environmentally sustainable economy which we desperately need.
to combat global warming, co2 emissions must be reduced on a worldwide basis.
the latest indicators are not encouraging: emissions increased by 6 per cent during 2010. co2 is accumulating in the atmosphere at an accelerating rate.
a recent assessment by scientists who had voiced doubts about the evidence of global warming concluded that temperatures were indeed rising at a rate very close to that estimated by the un’s intergovernmental panel on climate change.
eu member states were amongst the first in the world to industrialise and greatly increase their use of fossil fuels; we have a responsibility now to exercise leadership by reducing our co2 emissions.
− i voted this way because i believe that unspent carbon capture and storage (ccs) funds from the european economic recovery programme should be reallocated to other ccs projects.
furthermore i am not convinced by the environmental benefits of incorporating nuclear into our low carbon energy future.
− i voted for this resolution, which stresses the importance of the relations between the eu and kazakhstan and the strengthening of political and economic cooperation, including in strategic areas such as democracy, human rights, the environment, energy, trade and transport and in addition to the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking; underlines that last year was marked by increased cooperation, frequent high-level meetings and the start of negotiations for a new partnership and cooperation agreement.
− i voted for this resolution, which calls on the commission and member states to reinforce their commitment to achieve the united nations millennium development goals in the field of water and sanitation, and also to take into account the relevant outcomes of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development, and stresses that the world water forum debate should aim at strategies and solutions for agricultural and economic development that can guarantee a high level of water availability and quality.
we need to bring the world water forum into our fight against climate change and poverty, both of which are linked with water access.
we call upon the authorities of both territories to re-enter peaceful negotiations so that a sustainable solution to the conflict can be found for the future.
protecting the environment from the building of hydroelectric dams and energy policy transparency are therefore natural priorities for the montenegrin government.
in 2010 the board of directors declared that its activities had three main dimensions: the commission’s europe 2020 strategy with its employment strategy that embraces neoliberal economic policy and an acceptance of globalism; combating climate change – well, we had an 11th century danish king of england who set himself a comparable task – and, thirdly, supporting the eu’s foreign policy objectives.
it is a disastrous waste and it sets a bad example to our citizens.
loans should be made to companies which are most likely to boost the european economy, not just firms that meet idealistic environmental standards.
this reflects the economic and environmental costs of the controversial brussels-strasbourg arrangement.
this travelling circus is making a mockery of the european parliament and it is time to bring down the curtain on this absurd waste of money.
the resolution draws attention in this respect to the utmost importance of compiling a thorough and complete record of public property in order to provide a secure and predictable business environment, ensure restitution of private property and prevent the illegal acquisition of public assets by private interests.
it stresses the need for a pro-active approach and for better cooperation between the anti-corruption agency, the police and the prosecution, emphasises that the existing climate of impunity, and the absence of adequate sanctions for corruption, presents one of the biggest problems in kosovo, and urges the kosovar authorities to develop a track record of prosecution of anti-corruption cases, including at the highest levels of political and economic power.
− i voted for this resolution on turkish membership which stresses the interdependence between the european union and its member states and turkey, recognises the economic and growth potential of turkey and its significant role for regional stability and energy security, stresses that such interdependence is complemented by the value of potential synergies between the union’s and turkey’s foreign and security policy and neighbourhood policy, with benefits and reinforced leverage for both, but believes, however, that such interdependence can only produce positive results if it is framed in a context of mutual commitment, strategic dialogue and effective cooperation, successful delivery in the reform process and the implementation of reforms and good relations between turkey and neighbouring member states.
voluntary codes to improve diversity on company boards, sustainability of the management and stakeholders’ involvement have proved to be ineffective in the past.
− i supported this report but i agree with the committee on development which, in its opinion, ‘regrets that the eib is not prioritising investment in local companies in acp countries; deems that monitoring of global loans or loans for smes should be improved, to ensure that financial intermediaries properly implement the eib requirements, to ensure accountability, transparency and environmental sustainability in the use of funds made available to local smes; takes the view that the definition of smes used in each external region should be clarified, taking into account the structure of the local economies.’
in writing.
despite these reservations, the report also recognises that the country has become a strategic partner for the eu in terms of energy supply and looks to build upon this mutually-beneficial relationship to enhance the development of relations between the eu and azerbaijan.
madam president, stability in the south caucasus is a major concern for the european union, as it is a region that has had a series of armed conflicts in the past and is today a major energy corridor linking europe to the caspian sea.
the outermost regions of the european union comprise a set of regions which, due to the specific characteristics associated with their physical and structural conditions, and as a result of their remoteness, insular locations, difficult topography and climate, constitute a specific group of regions recognised by article 349 of the tfeu.
it is therefore necessary and desirable to examine, in relation to the future cohesion policy of the outermost regions, how the eu 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth can be achieved in these european regions, which possess permanent characteristics and constraints – arising mainly from their remoteness – which justify the adoption of specific measures by the european union.
it was one of our flagship legislative initiatives for 2011. a system of common rules for calculating the tax base across the eu is expected to significantly improve the business environment in the single market.
tax-free salaries, non-contributive pension schemes, winter sunshine trips to durban and cancún, suicidal remote energy policies and constant rescue packages for failed banks.
this morning, it was integration by coordination of the social security system; in the early evening, it is integration by a common corporate tax base; later this evening, the target for integration will be taxation on electricity and energy products.
secondly, the proposal aims to increase energy taxes.
thirdly, the proposal adds yet another layer of complexity to the existing multiple layers of energy taxes and regulations.
mr president, i have voted against this report on the taxation of energy products and electricity as i do not support a number of the proposals that it makes.
the latter include agricultural fluids, known in the uk as red diesel, and the principle that all calculations on this should be based on energy consumption and co2 emissions.
whilst i support the eu’s endeavours to reduce emissions, i do not believe that taxation of energy products and electricity is the right way to achieve this.
one thing that always boosts economic growth, in every country and in every age, is cheaper energy.
it always causes factory prices to fall; it causes an export boom and it causes people to be able to buy things – with less energy put into it, if you like.
energy crisis?
what energy crisis?
mr president, i recognise that climate change is a serious issue, but i often worry that those who want to save the world are actually living on a different planet.
not a day goes by when i do not hear from a constituent who is unhappy with the increases in their energy bills.
i do, however, believe that it is time for a fundamental review of taxation on energy products and particularly electricity: not a review which says the eu should take more interest but one that would end up with the view that we should take far less interest from here.
how will this help change behaviour and reduce energy consumption?
we know that when you increase taxation on energy products, those costs are not only passed on to companies – which means they have less money to employ more people – but those companies then pass it on to consumers, who then find it more difficult to struggle with their weekly and monthly household bills.
− i chose to abstain from this vote as, on principle, ensuring the import of legally felled timber products is vital both for environmental sustenance and the preservation of fair trade.
along with establishing a partnership tool for improving management standards, sustainability and accountability in the forestry sector, the vpa can be expected to contribute positively to overall development and growth in the central african republic, including by safeguarding income generated by timber exports to the eu and other international markets.
− i chose to abstain from this vote as, on principle, insuring the import of legally felled timber products is vital both for environmental sustenance and the preservation of fair trade.
along with establishing a partnership tool to enable liberia to halt illegal deforestation and forest degradation contributing to climate change, the vpa should improve market opportunities for liberian timber products in european and other international markets, thereby also enabling it to contribute positively to liberia’s overall development and growth.
− i was disappointed that my own group’s amendment encouraging renewable energy projects was not adopted.
− i voted in favour of this report which sets a logical approach to energy taxation and brings us closer in some respects to green taxation.
it is indeed absolutely not practical and almost impossible to be accurate in measuring biomass energy in terms of its contribution to the co2 balance and its energy content per quantitative unit, because of the own specificities of this energy.
i will try to address this when the directive is discussed in council by working closely with the uk energy and climate change minister.
− i voted against this as i am opposed to the increasing punitive measures taken against individuals and companies who have no choice but to use non-renewable energy.
there is no evidence that revenue collected is used to combat climate change – which in itself is debatable as to whether it is a man-made problem – and as a result creates a politicised stealth tax on living and working costs.
− taking into account the already tight financial situation which european companies in all sectors of the union’s economy are having to cope with as a result of the global financial crisis and the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in the euro area, the ecr group does not consider the timing is right for a copernican-type revolution with respect to the structure of energy taxation and would rather see a more modest review of the existing directive on energy taxation adopted in 2003. moreover, we consider it crucial for both the council and parliament to request an independent impact assessment of the commission’s proposal for the future energy taxation that is to be based on two components – co2 emissions and the energy content of products – before any changes to the current regime are implemented.
we have persistent doubts about the economic sustainability of the commission’s proposal.
− although i sympathise with the aim of this report to reduce co2 emissions and create a better environment, i was unfortunately unable to give my full backing to this report.
the wording of this report does not sufficiently address the problems of fuel poverty, which is faced by millions of people, and i feel that this is not an appropriate measure to take in the current economic climate.
– mr president, i would say this to the minister: as a proud scot speaking to a fellow social democratic, ecological, northern european nation, i really want to be constructive and friendly towards you, but i am afraid i am embarrassed on your behalf that you are having to defend a situation that is entirely inexcusable.
so this is crucial; this is not a subsidiary issue, it is absolutely relevant to how we manage our environment and how we produce food across vast swathes of european territory.
supporting active farming in these areas delivers a wide range of benefits, not least of which is the sustainable management of the landscape resulting in amenity enjoyment for hundreds of thousands of people.
in the united kingdom these areas are some of the most beautiful and biodiversity-rich parts of the country.
mr president, consumers are increasingly interested in where their food comes from and how it is produced, especially with regard to issues such as country of origin, animal welfare and the environmental impact of food production.
– mr president, may i assure the commissioner that we in the united kingdom believe that it is important for europe to remain at the forefront of research into the next generation of energy provision.
– mr president, i am not against fusion energy.
– mr president, a deal was reached at the climate change conference thanks to two women.
it was direct talks between the eu climate action commissioner and india’s environment minister that paved the way for an agreement.
it would reduce their success to a number, as it calls for 40% quotas for women on climate negotiation teams.
we have seen demands for quotas in business and in politics, and now climate diplomacy is the target for quota enthusiasts.
climate change is a global challenge and we need global agreements to tackle it.
– mr president, this report represents a heroic attempt to link two of this parliament’s main obsessions – women’s rights and climate change – but sadly it fails to achieve that objective.
climate change gets blamed for many things, mostly without justification, but few people will believe that domestic violence against women is caused by climate change or that the low representation of women in government is caused by global warming.
some will feel it is discriminatory that we do not have a report on men and climate change: after all, men and women live in the same climate, women and men switch on the same lights, televisions and computers, and both men and women inhale oxygen and exhale carbon dioxide.
however, the report does make one valid point: that women are less able to respond and adapt in the face of changes such as global warming and its side effects.
mr president, the biggest side effect of global warming is the huge economic damage that our climate mitigation policies are doing.
high energy prices and excessive regulation are driving jobs, industries and investment out of the eu altogether to other jurisdictions, typically with lower environmental standards.
the best thing we can do for women, for the poor of this world and for all mankind is to scrap our absurd and damaging climate policies.
this proposal is an attempt to sow discord between the sexes, break family values and export eu frankfurt school poison worldwide, using the excuse of climate change.
voters expect us at least to try to solve them, not to waste our time and their money on sexist anti-male, anti-family gibberish.
when the rivers run dry, the forests are too small to clean the air and the ecosystem supporting our agriculture collapses, we will wonder how we did not see it happening.
– madam president, we all agree that the protection and promotion of biodiversity is of vital importance and i welcome the vast majority of the recommendations in this report.
mr president, i am delighted to have supported my colleague mr gebrandy’s report on an eu biodiversity strategy for 2020. it is a balanced report and recognises that farmers and land managers have a key role to play in halting biodiversity loss across the eu.
the report also backs the greening of direct payments by targeting 30% of the payments at developing more sustainable agriculture, which i think is vital for future food production.
− i am in favour of fusion energy; however, having the eu involved is not the way to achieve it.
iter is a long term investment in not just european but global energy security and brings on board china and india as participants in trying to develop the long-term hope of controlled thermonuclear fusion using seawater based deuterium as an energy source.
the modernisation of higher education institutions, as outlined in this report, is essential in the current economic climate in order to ensure that students are fully equipped to deal with the changing labour market and are able to find employment after graduating.
i fully support the measures proposed in this report as i believe that a coordinated eu-wide approach will create a successful education environment that is attractive to european students and staff and also to those from other parts of the world.
in 2010, the ec adopted the ‘eu 2020’ strategy with the aim of creating smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and of improving economic governance.
the report ‘women and climate change’ is one such example when you really cannot fail to be bemused.
apparently, global warming adds to gender discrimination.
apparently, a necessary step to address this is a 40 per cent female quota on eu negotiating teams on climate change.
in addition, we must give funding to get women involved in the political battle to tackle climate change.
the reality is that men and women are equally affected by climate change.
what utter nonsense, mr president, and what a waste of our time when much more pressing matters should be addressed in this house.
− i voted for this resolution which underlines that 70% of the world’s poorest are women, who carry out two-thirds of all work done but own less than 1 % of all goods; notes that they are denied equal access to and control over resources, technology, services, land rights, credit and insurance systems and decision-making powers and are thus disproportionately vulnerable to, and affected by, climate change and have fewer opportunities to adapt; underlines that 85 % of people who die as a result of climate-induced natural disasters are women, that 75 % of environmental refugees are women, and that women are also more likely to be the unseen victims of resource wars and violence resulting from climate change
in writing.
− dear colleagues, the report on women and climate change undoubtedly highlights a number of important points with regard to roles played by women.
i do not agree that climate change widens the gender imbalance.
and finally, in the financial climate of today, it is important that we concentrate what limited funding we have on combating climate change itself, rather than on funding women's groups in the area of climate change when in fact there is no need to do so.
− the ecr group does not accept that climate change exacerbates gender discrimination.
the ecr strongly opposes the suggestion that a solution to this problem is through the introduction of quotas for women working in the climate change field; the ecr group is consistent in its approach on targets and quotas and we strongly oppose targets being set – in any area – at eu level.
nevertheless, the stated belief that a centralised common fisheries policy can bring about improvements to marine biodiversity and increase our natural capital is wholly misguided.
− i fully support the underlying theme of this report, which is that a strict and rapid implementation of all environmental policy is crucial for biodiversity.
climate change and the quality of air, soil and water all have a huge influence on biodiversity.
for marine life, a cfp based on achieving at least maximum sustainable yield, accompanied by tougher enforcement measures, is a minimum requirement.
− while this report was passing through committee, the european and external affairs committee of the scottish parliament highlighted the 7th environment action programme as one of their priorities for the coming year.
a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are prerequisites for guaranteeing quality of life as well as preserving the stability of ecosystems.
environment action programmes have guided the development of eu environment policy since the early seventies.
they have been a powerful driver for the adoption of strong eu environment legislation, notably in areas such as air, water, waste and climate.
protection of our environment increases quality of life, notably by safeguarding ecosystems and their services, halting the loss of biodiversity, ensuring better air quality, less noise, as well as by creating jobs and growth and by ensuring well-being for current and future generations.
the current 6th environment action programme (6eap), which was the first one to be adopted by co-decision, will expire in july 2012. its final assessment, published on 31 august 2011, concluded that on balance, the 6th eap has provided an overarching framework for environment policy, during which environmental legislation has been consolidated and substantially completed, and that its adoption by co-decision has increased its legitimacy and has helped create a sense of ownership for subsequent policy proposals.
i support calls to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies by 2020 and to set achievable targets in other areas, namely targets for renewable energy, emission reductions and energy efficiency.
i support calls for the 7th eap to integrate environmental protection into other eu policy areas such as industry and agriculture.
furthermore i support requests to better enforce eu waste legislation, and i call on the commission to come forward with more ambitious targets for recycling.
finally, the report outlines the need for sustainability criteria for biomass and biofuels to ensure the sustainability of land use.
sustainable growth requires profitably producing and selling more goods and services.
i want a europe, but a europe based on trade, a europe based on cooperation, a europe based on us sitting round the table and agreeing sensible rules on crime and the environment.
as information on everything from bus timetables to important information on over-the-counter medicines more and more relies on you being able to point a mobile at it for the information rather than it being written, that is good for the environment – we are all for that – but if i am in a different country that should not be costing me a lot of money.
the eu’s 1998 directive does not clearly define the boundaries between classical and modern methods of breeding and does not consider the social, economic or ecological implications.
these programmes will bring environmental and economic savings.
if implemented properly, encouraging region-to-region services could lead to less congestion and greater environmental efficiency.
worse, how can we ask taxpayers to put even more into policy areas such as cohesion, energy and transport, where the error rate has increased to an astonishing 7.7%?
yet while this house is prepared to turn a blind eye to the deficiencies of those responsible for most of the budget, including itself, it puts great energy into refusing to approve the management of the council’s budget.
but her report on the budget for the european environment agency does provide some evidence for suspicions of overlaps of spending – i will speak cautiously in that way – with ngos or pressure groups with which staff of the agency had rather too close a relationship.
a few exceptions included the environment agency, the food safety agency and the european medicines agency, which is located in my london constituency.
i also believe that it is a disgrace that parliament continues to waste money during a time of strict austerity on projects such as a visitor’s centre, the house of european history, the lux prize and other such awards designed to promote the eu’s erroneous values which simply function as vehicles to push forward brussels’ agenda.
it also brings about the subject of holding parliamentary plenary in strasbourg, which is not only a profligate waste of money but goes against the eu’s purported carbon reduction values.
i also believe that it is a disgrace that parliament continues to waste money during a time of strict austerity on projects such as a visitor’s centre, the house of european history, the lux prize and other such awards designed to promote the eu’s erroneous values which simply function as vehicles to push forward brussels’ agenda.
it also brings about the subject of holding parliamentary plenary in strasbourg, which is not only a profligate waste of money but goes against the eu’s purported carbon reduction values.
− i welcome parliament’s call in this resolution encouraging the agency to continue its efforts to further develop its communication methods in order to attract more media coverage for its findings and thus feed public debate and broaden the scope of the environmental information available to the public on important environmental issues, such as climate change, biodiversity and the management of natural resources.
− i voted for this report which grants the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing.
the scrutiny, evaluation and audit reporting on these budgets is unsatisfactory and therefore controls on waste, fraud, excess and ineffectiveness are inadequate.
in the current economic climate it is my belief that more needs to be done to promote growth and investment and create incentives for manufacturing plants to be based in europe.
in particular, technical assistance to developing countries and countries with economies in transition should be provided directly by the commission and the member states, or indirectly via support for projects by non-governmental organisations, especially assistance seeking to enable those countries to implement the convention, thereby contributing to the prevention of harmful effects of chemicals on human health and the environment.
entrepreneurism is stifled by widespread corruption, with trade barriers and an unfriendly investment climate undermining economic growth.
the question arises whether – in these speculative days of potential greek exit from the eurozone and single-currency collapse – all the euro member states would be duty-bound to abide by such legislation and potentially waste money on the issuance and circulation of a currency that may soon become obsolete.
the socialist vision of growth is an illusion created at the expense of borrowing and tax rises, and it is totally irresponsible in the current climate.
we have to turn round our ailing economy in order to achieve a sustainable economy, but we cannot solve the problem by using the same policies which brought us here in the first place.
we need to invest in improving housing, health and the environment: this will create millions of jobs and improve society.
we have to look at jobs which can put people back to work: sustainable jobs that create work for the long term.
there is a plan here to try to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2022 and a restoration of biomass.
even now, the pew environment trust is saying that, looking at the most recent figures from across the world, it is quite clear from the amount of world trade taking place that the quotas for the mediterranean and the atlantic bluefin tuna – quotas that in theory represent the maximum that can be caught – are being greatly exceeded.
this is particularly true when it comes to fostering new partnerships in the development of new-generation energy, technology, etc.
our treaties commit us to supporting democracy, human rights and environmental protection – not just on paper, but in practice – in everything we do, both within the union and through our external relations.
colombia is a country where deforestation, water pollution and biodiversity loss remain serious problems.
the colombian government has introduced environmental legislation but, as the commission’s own sustainable impact assessment has shown, the capacity to properly enforce this is lacking.
ratifying the free trade agreement (fta) at this point, without proper environmental enforcement in place, will result in increased pressure, more damage to the environment and more destruction to the livelihoods of rural population groups in colombia.
it must spell out the steps that it will take together with the colombian government to safeguard the natural environment, before this fta comes into force.
if we are to be a leader in high human and environmental standards throughout the world, we must lead with really binding resolutions, and with clear and strong actions to safeguard core european values.
until then i cannot support a treaty where actions on the environment and human rights remain just an aspiration.
it would raise money to meet global development and poverty challenges and climate change commitments.
but it also highlights a major problem for those of us faced with the task of developing fishing policy which is both economically and environmentally sustainable.
whilst it is imperative that we move towards sustainable fisheries, we must pay heed to the lessons which can be learnt from recovery plans applied elsewhere.
this is shocking, and leads to severe depletion of the stocks, calling into question long-term species sustainability and marine conservation.
the campaign for a tax on financial transactions has always been about supporting the fight against poverty, unemployment and climate change at home and abroad, as well as stabilising the economy with a shift away from short-term profit towards the needs of the real economy.
a well-designed, effective ftt can raise revenue to meet global development priorities and tackle climate change, and help fund domestic priorities.
this report calls on china to adopt european standards across areas such as intellectual property, environmental protection and climate change mitigation.
− i backed new international measures to further reduce illegal catches of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean aimed at ensuring more sustainable development of stocks.
oil slicks are major environmental disasters that must be mitigated and managed, thus i wholeheartedly agree that an appropriate way of controlling risk of spillage is via the international adoption of double-hulled vessels.
− ukip meps can see both sides of the argument in that protection of the environment is good but double hulls would be a massive cost to shipping and make us uncompetitive with the rest of the world if they were brought in just for the eu.
− ukip meps can see both sides of the argument in that protection of the environment is good but double hulls would be a massive cost to shipping and make us uncompetitive with the rest of the world, if it was brought in just for the eu.
oil slicks resulting from oil tanker accidents, such as those involving the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, are major environmental disasters with tragic repercussions for the marine fauna and flora.
reflecting a concern for the environment and a willingness to learn from past mistakes, this regulation seeks to reduce the risks of accidental oil pollution in european waters through accelerated phasing-in of double-hull requirements.
if the hull is damaged following a collision or grounding, there is a risk that the cargo tanks will discharge their contents into the sea and cause major pollution.
this ‘double hull’ design protects the cargo tanks from damage and thus reduces the pollution risk.
it is appalling to permit the european commission to persuade third countries, where entire communities are often dependent upon subsistence fishing, to admit eu trawlers to their waters where european boats may indiscriminately dredge stocks dry, rendering not only an environmental impact, but a socio-economic disaster for coastal communities
in writing.
the improvements identified in this protocol not only safeguard the interests of the fishing industry, but also provide another step in improving the development of mozambique, as well as promoting sustainable fisheries.
i believe that a well designed ftt could generate vital new funds to fight poverty and unemployment at home and abroad, as well as confronting the challenge of climate change.
− when it comes to trade agreements, it is unfortunate that corporate social responsibility, human rights and environmental issues are sometimes used as a smokescreen by parties essentially uninterested in promoting free and open trade.
clearly, demarcation and delimitation of the border and the division of energy resources need to be political priorities.
the committee welcomed the fact that resource efficiency was a flagship initiative for 2020. the committee on regional development also called for greater investment in infrastructure for renewable energy projects and i am pleased to say that the new regulations for cohesion policy do indeed take this into account.
the committee also called for the contribution of the european structural funds towards sustainable growth to be reinforced.
mr president, currently the average eu citizen generates about six tons of waste.
in the uk, 40% of household waste is recycled, compared to 11% ten years ago.
the rapporteur has made some useful suggestions, but his report contains some impractical recommendations such as the general ban on landfill waste.
mr president, last year my group welcomed both the commission roadmap and december’s council conclusions on resource efficiency, and we were broadly supportive of the decision to draw up this own-initiative report, despite reservations on the number of own-initiative reports being drafted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in a report which attempts to list absolutely everything anyone thought of, there are inevitably many areas i cannot agree with, amongst them environmental taxation, the implication that agriculture has only negative impacts, and the lack of clear and agreed definitions for so many concepts such as harmful environmental subsidies.
mr president, even climate change sceptics must accept that mineral resources are finite and that the demand for resources will rise exponentially.
however i do not believe that a move towards environmental taxes, particularly an eu tax, is the answer as suggested in the report on a resource-efficient europe.
similarly, the proposal to strengthen the eu’s waste acquis is not logical as this will merely put more unnecessary pressure on national governments causing them to shift their focus away from the growth that the eu needs right now.
we need to recognise that if we are to achieve the goals of the eu 2020 strategy of a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, we need to take a global perspective when formulating all policy.
we recognise that short-term job creation, based on subsidised loans and other public borrowing, is not a sustainable long-term solution, so we have made sure that our support measures are available to unemployed young people and are flexible, targeted and based on individuals’ reasons for unemployment, their level of experience and their level of education, because we want to make sure that we provide the right support for the right person.
let us not waste our energies denouncing conservative governments, and concentrate on working in our member states to get legislation which works.
one of the key areas we need to tackle of course is food waste.
both the public and private sectors need to do more to reduce waste along the food chain, but we almost need more research and innovation in the area of bio-waste reuse and recycling.
the report also calls on the commission to introduce modern nutrient-management techniques in order to reduce nutrient loss and achieve a sustainable intensification of our agricultural production.
do you want to sit down here as a parliament and decide some of the details on whether we get support for unece legislation on emissions, on how japan deals with particular variants of new models coming from europe, on whether we have common test standards on cars, and on whether we have a particular category of small vehicles that excludes europeans?
we have been right to insist on strong human rights and environmental and labour standards, but we have been unable to enforce these so far.
as a matter of principle, ukip always opposes the profligate waste of this parliament and of the eu.
only thus can taxpayer representatives hold them to account for all the corruption and waste that we know takes place.
twenty-eight million citizens do not how to read or write and the imf estimated an average gdp growth rate of four and a half percent for 2011. i welcome, therefore, parliament’s report in defining a new development cooperation with latin america, as it rightly acknowledges that the eu needs to assist the region in eradicating poverty and to help promote sustainable economic and social development.
as a parent, how many times have i been grateful for the time and energy that volunteers – particularly in the uniformed organisations like girls’ brigade, boys’ brigade, scouts etc.
to convey that "whoever makes it, pays for it", citizens are bailing out banks that engaged in practices of questionable morality and sustainability.
europe is forcing the people to socialize the waste committed by incompetent governments and irresponsible institutions.
mr president, with the global population projected to reach nine billion by 2050, global energy demand is forecast to increase by 40% in the shorter period of now until 2030. so competition for scarce fossil fuels will grow accordingly.
member states within the eu need to develop and coordinate their energy policies with all strategic partners, particularly given the current challenges we are facing in energy security.
some member states are becoming increasingly interconnected with respect to their energy supply already, so a coordinated eu approach may help energy security for the eu as a whole.
it is similarly important for the eu to look to a number of new countries to supply its energy, in order to avoid reliance on a small number of suppliers.
although i strongly support the importance of diversification and infrastructure development to enhance our energy security, i am unable to support the demand for the commission to be involved in all member states’ energy negotiations with third countries, regardless of whether its assistance is required or requested.
i do not accept that member states should have a mandatory obligation to involve the european commission in discussions and agreements on energy generation and supply contracts.
this is a clean, environmentally sustainable energy source, an area where iceland is a clear technological leader globally and has much to teach us.
mr president, i think we can see a rationale why, in an increasingly interconnected world, it is important that we look at energy cooperation and coordination – with coordination, not coercion, being the key – particularly when some countries are concerned about over-dependence on russia for energy supplies.
but when we are looking at energy supplies we should be looking at diversification and barriers to new supplies.
let us look at issues such as more micro-generation; let us look at how we continue to use fossil fuels by using technologies such as carbon capture to make sure it is used in a clean way; let us look at how we can use palm oil stearin and other non-edible by-products of palm oil to ensure better energy diversification; and let us look at the issue of nuclear power.
it is that sort of bureaucracy that does more to harm the supply of energy than anything else.
my group voted against paragraph 55 because, although we feel we should be developing cooperation with other countries to secure our energy future, we believe we should do so in the context of our commitment to tackle global climate change.
we need to look at these issues about oil sands, tar sands and shale gas but we need to do so looking at our commitment to cut our carbon emissions.
we cannot ignore that when we are looking at energy cooperation.
thankfully the danish presidency presented a compromise in which the necessary funding was found from a reallocation of under-implemented lines in the european energy plan.
thankfully the danish presidency presented a compromise in which the necessary funding was found from a reallocation of under-implemented lines in the european energy plan.
− i voted against mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the simple reason that it does not work and is a colossal waste of taxpayers’ money.
in light of the many initiatives and debates during 2011, it has been shown that voluntary activities are a tool for individuals and associations to tackle human needs and concerns, whether social, intergenerational or environmental.
− whilst the matter of cyber security is ever pressing in today's online environment and is an issue, due to the very nature of the worldwide web, which must be addressed via international cooperation, i would not trust a european quango to exercise control in this area.
− i voted for this resolution which calls on the commission to propose an eu framework for the notification of security breaches in critical sectors such as energy, transport, water and food supply, as well as in the ict and financial services sectors, to ensure that relevant member state authorities and users are notified of cyber incidents, attacks or disruptions.
− it is vital during a time of decreasing fuel supplies which entails sensitive inter-country negotiation on the share of resources that nations may act independently to decide how best to sustain energy security domestically.
the eu now controls all aspects of uk energy policy, taking away our independence in this most vital of areas, from the imposition of nuclear safety rules and the formation and regulation of new energy trade partners.
the commission wishes to be involved in the energy negotiations of all member states with third countries, which is clearly against the principle of subsidiarity.
− i voted for this report and would like to underline that sustainable energy is a key driver of development, and reiterate its call for a specific ‘energy and development’ programme with a special focus on renewable, energy-efficient, small-scale and decentralised energy solutions and the promotion of capacity development and technology transfer in order to ensure local ownership.
the report notes that large-scale renewable energy schemes may be necessary in order to meet in a sustainable way the growing energy demand from urban centres and industry, particularly in emerging countries; it calls for such schemes to adhere in all cases to the highest social and environmental criteria.
− this report, which i have supported, calls for a better harmony and coordination of energy policy across the eu in order to ensure that europe’s voice is heard worldwide.
we must adapt our approach to the issue and secure access to long-term energy solutions for citizens and businesses.
in addition to this, europe’s high safety and environmental standards as well as the valuable energy technologies that are developed in the eu could be better promoted to third countries to spread these standards throughout the world.
the recommendations in this report are a positive step towards creating a functioning and integrated eu energy market.
the commission talks about synergies, about investments, about added value, and the public just sees waste, mismanagement and fraud.
– i do not see how you can possibly say that the eu budget is efficient, when the eu budget is a byword for corruption, waste and fraud.
now, more money is wanted to waste on promoting deeper european integration.
in the present mff, 44 % of the eu budget is being spent on sustainable growth.
without income from exports, developing countries cannot put into place either the physical or democratic infrastructure which is necessary for sustainable democratic growth.
it is extremely encouraging that the least developed countries are able to participate in international trade in this way and are thus able to support their own poverty reduction schemes and their own sustainable development projects through the additional export revenue that this generates and by easier access to eu markets.
however, the arms trade in its unregulated and non-transparent state seriously threatens local, national and international peace and stability and also undermines democracy, the rule of law and sustainable development through fuelling, tragically, armed conflict, organised crime and terrorism.
it shall also present a proposal for a euro area sustainable growth instrument aiming at mobilising approximately 1 % of gdp per year over a period of ten years, including an increase in the capital of the eib and project bonds, to be invested in european infrastructure including science and technology.
the instrument shall aim at creating the necessary conditions for sustainable growth in order to ensure the proper functioning of economic and monetary union and to safeguard the stability of the euro and thereby the sustainable coordination of member states’ budgetary discipline’.
if europe is to emerge from the crisis the main focus should be job creation, and smart and sustainable growth as well as economic and social cohesion.
− i voted for this resolution, which points out that uncontrolled and unregulated arms trading poses a serious threat to local, national, regional and international peace, security and stability but also to democracy, the rule of law and sustainable social and economic development; unregulated arms trading is a contributory factor in armed conflict, the displacement of people, organised crime and terrorism.
first of all, we must cut taxes, secondly, we must have a bonfire of the regulations, thirdly, we must dismantle the reckless and failing experiment of monetary union and, finally, we must adopt a rational energy policy and abandon our lunatic obsession with the myth of global warming.
a sustainable and competitive european economy based on real economic performance – not endless public borrowing – is the route to creating jobs and reducing our unemployment rates.
colleagues ought to know that there are credible studies from several european countries which show that every green job costs two or three or four jobs in the real economy because green energy is so expensive that it actually restricts growth in the rest of the economy and costs jobs.
by diverting energy towards “creating a jobs-rich recovery” the eu is heading towards a “jobs-poor spiral”.
it is not a straightforward task to ensure that the environment and citizens are protected without being disproportionately restrictive, and there was always a chance of double regulation, which i believe we have now avoided.
no eu bank, particularly during the current economic crisis, will lend a fisherman up to eur 2 million to build a new white fish vessel, unless he can show that there is a multiannual stock management plan in place that will give a concrete assurance of sustainable fishing over a long period.
– mr president, according to the commission, there are now some 20 fish stocks in the whole of the european union which are at maximum sustainable yield.
this is a huge improvement on the situation of previous years where there have been virtually no stocks at maximum sustainable yield.
that way there is an incentive to maintain the stocks in a sustainable way, rather than this sort of communist, centrally-controlled fisheries policy, which has actually led to the depletion of our fish stocks and to disaster.
in the current poor economic climate, however, we must be cautious that any measures the eurozone takes for a banking and fiscal union do not freeze out the uk financial services sector from continental europe.
those of us on the right believe that what you need to do is create the right conditions for growth: get governments out of the way of markets; get governments out of the way of entrepreneurs and allow them to create real sustainable jobs – not jobs dependent on governments spending more taxpayers’ money than they have actually got and getting themselves into debt, but the creation of real sustainable jobs in the private sector so that they can then pay their taxes.
single-market opportunities, when used effectively in areas such as energy, transport, retail, research and development, and labour mobility could have a positive impact on economic growth as well as bringing significant benefits to consumers.
it highlights the importance of improving the business environment for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which are the cornerstone of employment within the eu.
it is crucial that member states take decisive action now to liberalise their labour markets in order to build competitive economies that will deliver sustainable growth in the long term.
a sustainable and competitive european economy based on real economic performance not endless public borrowing is the only route to creating jobs and reducing our unemployment rates.
throughout the eu many citizens are worried about the job market in their country and in the current economic climate it is vitally important that there is an increased focus on creating jobs and growth.
mr president, i too express my deep concern over the reported climate of impunity that has developed in recent years in the philippines.
in the current climate, they have enough to worry about.
building on the urban waste water treatment directive, some good progress has been made over the years.
we know that treating sewage and waste is expensive so perhaps it is not surprising that poorer countries have had trouble meeting the original targets.
it treats only 65% of its waste water properly.
france only treats 64% of its waste water and luxembourg only 56%.
ensuring that we deal with our own human waste and stop polluting our rivers must be a top priority for the environment but, as so often, we come back to the problem that we must not simply pass laws in this parliament; we must also make sure that they are properly enforced.
mr president, the water framework directive has set ambitious goals, goals for reducing pollution, goals for improving the water environment and goals for promoting better use of water.
anything that can be done at european level to establish proper funding models and set high standards on issues like noise emissions is very welcome.
many have genuine concerns for the viability and sustainability of their business.
as ever, a simple report on implementation was turned into a rambling wish list by members of the committee on the environment public health and food safety and for this reason i have had to abstain.
water security and environmental standards, e.g.
in 2011, standards at the tap were 99.8% compliant; with regard to waste water quality in 2010 our targets were exceeded, with 88.6% of works compliant with current regulations.
− i support this report, which calls for the economic and environmental problems facing eu regions to be addressed through macro-regional strategies with multi-level governance.
establishing a single european railway area has always been an ambitious goal of the european union, and remains a key instrument of the internal market and the reduction of c02 emissions while remaining an important challenge given the disparities between member states.
− i voted for this report and welcome the fact that parliament has insisted from the beginning on establishing a compulsory mechanism to reduce railway noise emissions caused by trains.
rail currently lags behind other modes of transport and underinvestment in rail needs to be addressed if we are to meet important environmental and climate change goals.
intellectual property rights (ipr) are fundamental to innovation, which is a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
however, europe’s and the world’s freshwater resources are at risk if we manage them beyond the boundaries of sustainability: urbanisation, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, hydromorphological alterations and climate change put ever-increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe and secure water.
future economic growth cannot be sustained unless it is decoupled from adverse environmental impacts on water.
investors appreciate the investment opportunities of the eu single market mainly due to its high-quality and diverse human capital, relatively predictable business environment and high potential in research and innovation.
we also agree that promoting education, research and development and job creation in areas such as greenhouse gas emissions reduction, development of renewable energy sources and improvement of energy efficiency could contribute to attracting fdi in the eu.
will the reform proposals for the common agricultural policy really deliver measurable environmental benefits, and at what price to the european taxpayer?
it is also very significant for us that there are payment commitments for less favoured areas and for the agri-environment schemes that are so important.
pillar 2 is best placed to deliver tailored outcomes in rural development and in the environment.
despite this very poor settlement, it is widely acknowledged that the uk has delivered strong agri-environment schemes via its singular use of the voluntary modulation mechanism.
there are generous grants to convert into it; organic farmers have exclusive access to generously paying environmental schemes; and they are, i understand, exempt from the inconvenience of the greening measures that other farmers must endure.
you will take forward the budget talks and the eu’s road map 2050: marry them together by investing in renewable energy eu-wide and cutting our dependence on russian gas.
the committee on international trade and the committee on industry, research and energy agreed with me, but this did not make it into the text.
the eu already has a high-quality human capital and a predictable business environment.
without it we would not be able to deliver what are, i think, fairly uniformly recognised in the european parliament as good – in many cases exemplary – agri-environment schemes delivering biodiversity and environmental benefits across the uk.
while we persist with vanity projects like the european house of history or the waste of travelling between two places of work, strasbourg and brussels, then that will not change.
the draft budget for 2013 astonishingly calls for a 6.8% increase on the figure of gbp 100 billion a year, a figure that looks totally incongruous set against the current climate of eu-wide austerity.
the next item is the report by göran färm, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 1639/2006/ec establishing a competitiveness and innovation framework programme (2007-2013) and regulation (ec) no 680/2007 laying down general rules for the granting of community financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks (com(2011)0659 – c7-0372/2011 – 2011/0301(cod)) (a7-0150/2012).
things like research and development, cross-border connectivity of energy and transport and broadband are really adding european value, whereas a lot of the previous investment in infrastructure has been of questionable value.
– mr president, the rio summit reinforced my belief that we need to ensure economic and environmental agendas go hand-in-hand.
we can boost sustainable development through trade liberalisation.
in brazil, sugar cane is providing a solution to economic, environment and even energy problems.
it will meet regularly and, i hope, avoid future dependence on these events, concentrating on true environmental sustainability, without all the social ‘fluffy stuff’ that has been associated with the rio talks.
if we are disappointed with the outcome for the environment, we have our land-use policy.
we have to ask why, and the truth is that nobody believes in climate change any more.
there has been no global warming for 15 years.
countries like india, china and the usa will not sacrifice economic progress for speculative and alarmist theories about climate change and our european taxpayers will no longer pay for it.
he has been an environmental regulator and most recently he was ceo of rwe renewables.
but after a lifetime of environmentalism, he has looked again at the facts and concluded that carbon dioxide is not a significant driver of climate change.
we are told that renewable energy will become cost competitive as the price of fossil fuels rises, but the price of fossil fuels is not rising.
the usa and china may soon become net exporters, and beyond shale gas we have methane hydrates which offer more energy than all other known fossil fuel reserves put together.
we have voluntarily made decisions on energy which will marginalise and deindustrialise europe.
we are driving energy-intensive businesses with their jobs and investment out of europe altogether.
he understands that my main role at the summit was to press the case for mandatory sustainability reporting by business.
the strength of paragraph 47 is that it names governments and the un itself in calling for action on corporate sustainability reporting.
i hope that in his reply commissioner potočnik will express his support for his colleague commissioner barnier in bringing forward regulation at european level on binding corporate sustainability reporting.
a modern and effective infrastructure is of key importance for achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as well as reducing unemployment through the completion of the internal market.
investment needs in the field of transport, energy and information and communication technologies (ict) infrastructure in europe are estimated at eur 1.5 trillion for 2010-2020. while the private sector should finance the main part of these – mostly profitable – investments, the public sector’s role in europe will be crucial for achieving the above targets.
to this end, the commission has proposed a ‘connecting europe facility’ (cef) for the next financial framework in order to accelerate infrastructure development in the fields of transport, energy and ict networks, with particular emphasis on strategic cross-border parts.
− investment needs for transport, energy and ict infrastructure projects are estimated at around eur 1.5 trillion for 2010-2020. it is therefore vital that we find some mechanism to help generate this investment.
guarantees from the eu will help to attract private investment in transport, energy and information technology network projects across the eu.
i am delighted that my colleagues from the committee on international trade and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety are here this evening, which i am sure reflects the importance and interest that they attach to the whole of this standardisation dossier.
i would like to agree with my finnish colleague and, while i agree with the main concerns of this proposed directive and believe that it is important to improve and protect the maritime environment through reductions in the sulphur content of marine fuels, there are still a number of areas that need close attention.
the different sulphur limits set between the sulphur emission control areas in northern europe, including the english channel, north sea and baltic sea, and the rest of the eu will create disadvantages across the maritime sector, leading to increased costs for ship owners and operators and causing modal back-shifting, which will lead to increased congestion and an increase in co2 emissions.
now we must move on and look ahead at what steps are necessary to make sure the energy efficiency directive is properly implemented and achieves its goal.
the directive calls for all requirements to be implemented by 2014. that is only six years before 2020. i hope that lessons have been learned from the energy services directive.
to reach 2050 greenhouse gas reduction targets, the existing building stock needs to use 80% less energy than today.
energy efficiency is a key part of economic efficiency and, in terms of the economy, we are all in this together.
it saved a lot of energy but my productivity went to zero – and this sort of sums up the energy efficiency debate: we need to have stable energy (no power cuts) and to use less energy because we cannot afford our ever-increasing fuel bills, but we need to do this without reducing productivity and helping growth at the same time.
i support the ambition of energy savings, and i know that we need to do this without also forcing companies to simply relocate outside the eu.
the commission has said that it supports energy savings, but now another part of the commission has announced that the uk cannot keep its low vat levels for energy efficiency installations.
i agree with this directive – we have got it in the right place – but let us now turn our energy to fighting this crazy tax decision.
mr president, the commissioner referred to the council’s deadline of the end of 2014. the internal energy market is a key priority in the commission’s energy 2020 strategy and in the roadmap 2050. earlier this year the commission sent reasoned opinions to 17 member states for failure to implement the third energy package.
if the third package is about unbundling supply from transmission, will there be a fourth package on physical interconnection of the internal energy market?
would the commission at least guarantee that most of the eur 9 billion foreseen for the energy schemes in the connecting europe facility – if we get it – will be spent on electricity interconnection rather than on gas pipeline investments to the benefit of companies who made a combined profit of usd 180 billion last year?
therefore, can we expect the commission to come forward with a europe-wide renewables support scheme so that we can do exactly what he was talking about, namely connect malta and italy, with all of the potential that they have, for the generation of electricity from renewable energy?
(for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr president, no business needs to be told to look for energy efficiency, nor does any householder need to be told to keep his bills down.
there is a wonderful mechanism for driving energy efficiency already and it is called the market.
what we are doing in this house when we talk about energy efficiency is precisely the opposite.
we are intervening through subsidies and other market distortions, thereby creating not only a financial crisis but an energy crisis because we are intervening in the natural flow of supply and demand.
i have observed before that shakespeare has something to say about every subject, including meps who cannot help legislating in energy policy: ‘what’s the matter, you dissentious rogues, that, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion, make yourselves scabs?’.
mr president, i welcome the fact that in looking at the whole debate on climate change and energy production, we are also looking at energy efficiency.
quite often this is the forgotten element of this whole debate – this wider debate – on climate change and alternative sources of energy.
we do need to incentivise businesses, customers and others towards energy efficiency.
so, while on the one hand we are discussing energy efficiency and claiming that we are promoting energy efficiency, by what we actually do through taxation policy we are reducing the incentives for energy efficiency.
mr president, cooperation and coordination in energy efficiency policies could actually bring added value, provided they are not binding on the member states.
there would be less environmental pollution, with the emission of certain toxic noxious gases, if the power stations could be more efficient.
there could also be fewer greenhouse gas emissions, but i also think that there is a danger sometimes of being overreactive, as with the abolition of the incandescent light bulb.
they give off uv light, which potentially causes cancer in people with certain conditions of the skin, and they release toxic mercury into the environment.
so, when the uk government, or any other elected government, says that it has a policy and that it has decided on what is a sustainable number of people to allow in, considering the impact on local communities, it should be allowed to continue that policy and should certainly not be told by the eu, or any other body, that it should allow more room.
it is my view that, given the harmful effects of sulphur dioxide emissions, not only to respiratory health in humans but also to the environment, the sulphur content of marine fuels must continue to be closely monitored at eu level.
i believe that this is indeed a positive step forward and it is in keeping with my party’s environmental policy to protect the environment for future generations and to improve our own quality of life and well-being.
mr president, we need more jobs and we need greener energy.
perhaps the rapporteur thinks that women need improved transport because, according to the report, women do not affect the environment in the same way as men.
− the proposals lean towards increasingly centralised and punitive measures that would essentially burden the taxpayer, indirectly and directly, to fund energy efficiency targets stipulated by the eu.
while energy efficiency is paramount in the light of decreasing resources and increasing fuel prices, with energy deficit seeing many european countries depend upon fuel importation that undermines and weakens national economies, creating a pan-european policy is only likely to backfire and see the burden of cost passed onto the public via legislation that fails to appreciate and accommodate specifics of particular industries or regions.
costs enforced upon utilities companies will simply be passed down to the consumer, as will the results from energy audits on large enterprises if not handled effectively.
while the rapporteur acknowledges the need to protect consumers against unjustified price rises, and the role of local governance in actuating energy efficiency, these principles stand in direct contradiction to the proposition of centralised targets and to the identification that ‘levies or obligations on all customers or retailers can raise substantial and constant funding’.
i would not trust brussels to forge a centralised energy efficiency strategy that would avoid deep and divisive consequences.
− i voted for this report and agree with the rapporteur that a common eu approach is necessary to reinforce energy savings, energy efficiency and innovation, achieve economies of scale and reduce the bureaucratic burden in all member states.
− i voted in favour of this resolution, which will implement a number of significant energy-saving measures.
thanks to this directive, energy consumption will be reduced by 15%, representing an improvement on current legislation under which a reduction of only 9% would be possible.
not only will this resolution ensure that energy efficiency targets are more likely to be met, it will also boost jobs and economic growth in member states, with the mandatory renovation of 3% of central government buildings set to create millions of jobs all over europe.
this resolution, which has my full support, will also help to reduce energy costs for citizens.
− the directive will set binding measures to ensure we are sticking to our 2011 energy efficiency plan, which will enable the eu to reduce energy consumption by 15% by 2020, bringing us closer to our 20% target.
better energy efficiency in the eu will help to lower both emissions and the cost of energy for consumers, as well as reducing the eu's reliance on foreign imports of gas and oil.
ensuring that 3% of central government buildings will have to be renovated every year will not only improve the energy efficiency of those buildings but also help to boost the construction industry and create jobs.
the directive also places an obligation on energy companies to make savings of 1.5% annually until 2020. the final directive did not go as far as we socialists and democrats would have liked – for example we were pushing for annual renovation targets on all public buildings – but is nevertheless a good start.
− energy efficiency is important, not least because our citizens are facing rising power bills.
we need incentives to encourage more energy efficiency not draconian penalties.
this is why i am aghast at the commission’s decision to threaten the uk with legal action in the european court of justice (ecj) over reduced vat on energy-saving materials.
vat was reduced to 5% on energy efficiency products in the uk in order to tackle fuel poverty and reduce carbon emissions.
this is exactly the kind of spur we need to encourage the installation of energy efficiency measures such as double-glazing or loft insulation.
if the eu really wishes to embrace energy efficiency, it should – rather than penalise britain – encourage other member states to introduce similar schemes.
i fully support this regulation as voted by the european parliament, and i am especially pleased that small firms, representatives of consumers, environmental and civil society bodies will now be consulted during the development process.
air pollution from shipping can reach far inland and is estimated to cause 50 000 premature deaths a year across the eu.
the legislation will set binding limits on the sulphur content of fuels used in the maritime industry, bringing it down from 4.5% to 0.5% in all eu waters and leading to a significant reduction in sulphur emissions from ships.
there will therefore be significant environmental and health benefits to this legislation.
− i welcome this resolution which makes it clear that a modern trade policy has to take other policy areas, from human rights to industrial policy, into account for an integrated approach to trade, foreign, development, social and environmental policies and has to be based on reciprocal access to the markets.
robust international trade, investment and market integration are key drivers therefore of strong sustainable and balanced growth.
− this report highlights the worrying situation for women in the service sector, especially in the current economic climate.
– mr ferreira, would you agree that the common fisheries policy has been a total ecological, environmental disaster, with particular damage to fishing stocks, and would you further agree that the only certain cure is the immediate repatriation of fishing grounds to the nation states, starting off with spanish subsidised spanish trawlers staying out of british territorial waters.
that is at the heart of the commission’s proposals – that we need to achieve maximum sustainable yield (msy), but not just msy.
on discards, we all agree that this scandalous waste of food must be ended, but we must accept that the cfp and its detailed rules are a significant cause of discards.
for the sake of a sustainable fishery and for a sustainable fishing industry, we need to have this issue sorted out.
– proposed reform of common fisheries policy will not ensure sustainability nor lead to urgently needed economic reform.
restored stocks would generate gbp 14.62 billion annual revenue, treble the value of fish landed at sustainable levels today.
while 75% of the welsh coastline has protected status, wales cannot promote sustainability nor would gain in doing so.
only renationalising waters would incentivise the stewardship of seas by guaranteeing future sustainable, profitable local maritime industries and fair international trade.
so surely the only other alternative is for some countries to leave the euro, to devalue their currencies and for us to support them as they find the right policies that will return them to sustainable public spending and growth in the long-term.
this is in keeping with my party’s environmental policy to encourage sustainable food production and enhance the resilience of the whole food chain, namely the fish industry, in so doing.
this proposal also sees ‘associated stocks’ being redefined for the first time as a new umbrella term to encompass any fish belonging to the same ecosystem that prey upon that stock or that are preyed upon by the common stock in question.
with regard to the imposing of these restrictions or actions, i also agree strongly with the obligation to consider and evaluate the environmental, trade, economic and social effects of the measures in order to ensure that they are reasonable, just and proportionate and that they are fully compatible with the eu’s wto international trade obligations.
mr president, at a time when we are reforming the common fisheries policy and requiring our own fishermen to ensure that their activities are sustainable, it is fair to ensure where possible a level playing field for fisheries imports.
it also, notably, calls for the development of an eu-wide eco-label for sustainable fishery products.
it aims to provide market incentives to support more sustainable practices, and to enhance the market potential of eu products.
it is vital, of course, to promote a more sustainable fisheries sector but we must at the same time support fishermen.
lastly, i was also pleased to support the amendment tabled by my colleague struan stevenson requesting that the commission introduce an eu-wide eco-label for sustainable fisheries practice.
we have as a group engaged constructively with the external action service, though not uncritically, particularly over their unreasonable demand for a budget increase in this climate of austerity.
the eeas must, however, in this climate of austerity prove its value added, both in savings to the member states, particularly the smaller ones with lower bilateral representations, and show that states such as my own, the united kingdom, which are major international players, can see their national interests both protected and better projected through using the new eeas service.
mr president, since 2002 the commission has been obliged, under a council regulation, to report on the conservation and sustainable exportation of marine, i.e.
this is very much in line with my party’s ambitious 10-year biodiversity strategy.
hopefully this will also ensure socio-economic sustainability – which is in keeping with our commitment to build a more responsible economic model and to improve job prospects in the fisheries and aquaculture industries – and strengthen regionalisation.
we have seen it here in the amendment attempting to change wording from levels above maximum sustainable yield (msy) to close to msy.
i am committed to working on common fisheries policy reform towards sustainability, but unfortunately, due to the amendments, i was not able to support this report.
hence, mras seek to lift technical barriers to trade while safeguarding the health, safety and environmental objectives of each party.
the eu has in its reform of the cfp spent the past three years talking about sustainable fishing and the rebuilding of fish stocks.
mackerel is a very sustainable stock, in fact it was so well managed that it was awarded accreditation for sustainable management.
the aim of which is for a commission regulation is to promote cooperation between states in order to establish truly sustainable fishing practices which conserve fish stocks and ensure their optimal use.
− i have voted in favour of this important resolution, which will allow the commission to take action against countries who fail to cooperate with the eu in its pursuit of preserving sustainable fish stocks.
by empowering producer organisations, we will encourage sustainable practices.
furthermore, new labelling measures will help consumers to be better informed, allowing them to vote with their feet when it comes to sustainable fishing.
− i voted for this report which among other things states that sustainable fishing practices should be rewarded with an eu eco-label.
− this legislation is part of the reform of the common fisheries policy and will help boost the competitiveness of the industry, reduce the level of discards and introduce ‘eco-labelling’, so that consumers have more information on the sustainability of their fish.
− in the commission’s recent report on efforts concerning the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in member states, and current fishing capacity, it was concluded that member states’ actions were insufficient in their attempts to re-build fish stocks and reduce fleet capacity.
i therefore add my support to this report’s efforts to return sustainable fishing practices to our waters.
− this report, which i have supported, calls for a number of measures to promote sustainable fishing in eu waters.
− whilst including many good elements, such as the importance of encouraging new generations to take up fishing, i believe that this report, as an overarching communication does not go far enough to address issues such as discards, overfishing, preserving the rural way of life and sustainability.
the cfp has been an economic and environmental disaster and we supported amendments which will help our fishing industry, but until the cfp is scrapped and fishing regulation is given back to elected governments, our fish stocks and industry will continue to suffer.
this overarching report encompasses a number of areas, urging the commission to strengthen its measures concerning marine biological resources, the collection of data, job prospects, socio-economic sustainability and the aquaculture industry.
− i support the opening sentiment in this resolution that the european parliament ‘considers the prime objective of any fisheries policy to be to ensure the supply of fish to the public and the development of coastal communities, promoting employment and better working conditions for fishing professionals while seeking to establish resources on a sustainable footing which makes for proper conservation’.
however, i believe that we have to see this proposal in the context of the current climate of economic partnership agreement negotiations.
in this regard, it is definitely something that our agriculture sector should be exploring as part of the strategy, in order to ensure its future growth and sustainability especially in relation to exports.
sadly, there are now also allegations of atrocities being carried out by the rebel forces and, if they are true, that must also be investigated, and there can be no climate of impunity for anybody carrying out atrocities on either side of the conflict.
− in the current economic climate in which europe finds itself, we need policies that are going to help our businesses to create growth and jobs.
− cohesion policy strategy in the atlantic area calls for coordinated action at the eu level, through a macro-regional instrument, to tackle common maritime concerns such as tourism, transport and renewable energy.
an eu atlantic macro-regional strategy would simply add further bureaucracy, with little positive impact on areas of mutual concern such as biodiversity and carbon emissions.
this report on the subject of cohesion policy strategy in the atlantic area calls for coordinated action at the eu level, through a macro-regional instrument, to tackle common maritime concerns such as tourism, transport and renewable energy.
an eu atlantic macro-regional strategy would simply add further bureaucracy, with little positive impact on areas of mutual concern such as biodiversity and carbon emissions.
− i voted for this report which stresses that renewable marine energies comprise an industrial sector for the future that can combat climate change and eu energy dependence, achieve greater energy sustainability within the atlantic regions, and meet the europe 2020 targets.
parliament notes that the atlantic area is particularly suitable for the promotion of such energies, and considers that public support is necessary to accompany private investment in the technologies concerned, especially offshore wind energy and wave and tidal energy.
stable and secure energy supplies are important to foster a predictable economic environment for citizens and the industrial sector of the european union.
the best way to ensure the reliability of energy supplies is via a functioning internal energy market.
the introduction of the third energy package has furthered the eu’s efforts to free up the energy market.
many member states have unbundled power generation from transmission, which has allowed the entry of new participants in the energy supply market.
the third energy package has removed entrance barriers to the energy market and significantly increased its liquidity.
although the second and third energy packages still have to be fully implemented, the results in member states where they have been introduced are encouraging.
− european agriculture delivers food of great variety, with production methods that are respectful of the environment and of rural communities.
the regional diversity of food, the traditional methods of production sometimes going centuries back, the emphasis on safety and good environmental conditions lead to the fact that the quality of european food is among the highest in the world.
ensuring pakistan’s recovery and future sustainable development is extremely important, not only for its citizens but also for the security and the stability of the region.
it is clear for these reasons alone that making european air space as efficient as possible is important for job creation, the environment and – at a time when many european countries are verging on or are in recession – economic benefits.
secondly, we welcome the commission’s proposal on the connecting europe facility as providing an effective tool in delivering cross-border transport infrastructure that is both sustainable and achievable.
the mff needs a haircut and not a financial transaction tax to pay for more waste.
every euro, every pound, every krone, even every zloty needs to get to the front line with a minimum of waste.
i do not just want to tinker with eu funding, i want a fundamental review on how to reduce waste and excess, starting with getting rid of this chamber but moving on to look at our staffing costs and benefits, so that there is not one set of rules for eu institutions and another for those who work locally.
i was also angered during the vote by the hypocrisy of some members who, while arguing for a reduced budget, then voted for additional and continuing funding for the iter project which is, in my opinion, a waste of union resources.
we believe that a greater focus should be placed on bringing forward key infrastructure projects and making a commitment to invest in innovative sustainable technologies.
billions are squandered, other projects represent a profligate waste of money, application of funding is often grossly mishandled while penalties under cross compliance either punish the innocent or fail to protect against corruption.
in the light of the global economic climate, eliminating the need for extensive product testing would also positively impact the operating costs of eu pharmaceutical manufacturers, leading to savings in national health care services, including the national health service in the united kingdom.
i would like to make it clear that my views on the european food safety authority are not reflected in this vote against, in the sense that i find it impossible to vote for discharge on any of the environment committee-related agencies due to the fact that the court of auditors are unable to sign off on their accounts for any of these environment-related agencies and therefore i would by default be approving the procedure, which i do not wish to do.
the idea is flawed, insulting and an utter waste of money.
the fragmentation of european air space is estimated to cost eur 4 billion per year; it is costing jobs and is unnecessarily increasing our co2 emissions.
we need a more efficient european air space to relieve congestion around airports and also to meet our environmental challenges.
a sustainable future for aviation in europe means that we have to make the right efforts now for our economy, for our environment, to tackle our capacity constraints, to keep our position as a hub in the world but also to remain an environmental world leader.
i hope that the scandals of the european environment, medicine and food safety agencies will make members think twice about what these quangos do.
the european environment agency’s relationship with an ngo, which it sent on trips to the caribbean and the mediterranean, are totally unacceptable.
there is a definite urgency in calling for greater transparency and further austerity in keeping with the current economic climate.
there is a definite urgency in calling for greater transparency and further austerity in keeping with the current economic climate
in writing.
as air traffic in europe fast approaches maximum capacity, it is imperative for both the environment and the european economy that airspace is maximised through a more coordinated approach.
the pharmaceutical industry is currently undergoing significant changes in order to retain its competitiveness in a tough environment.
− although there are federal elements of this report with which i disagree, such as the mention of commission control of development planning, i voted in favour of this report because, overall, it is a positive and progressive report which includes an emphasis on respect for human rights (including lgbt and minority rights), democracy, the role of civil society, the gender equality and environmental perspectives, and the ilo core labour standards.
− i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for a comprehensive and balanced report which reflects our parliament’s and our citizens’ perspective of a new development policy, which is more inclusive, coherent and sustainable.
there are issues that can get in the way of other trade agreements such as labour and environment standards, which should not be obstacles to an eu-us trade agreement.
− i voted for this resolution which welcomes the ongoing joint discussion between the eu and the us on how to work collectively to increase growth potential and foster financial stability in order to create high quality jobs; it underlines that in order to ensure long-term prosperity and employment, a joint commitment, and effort, is needed to create new opportunities for businesses both large and small, to promote entrepreneurship and to capitalise on the advantages offered by the uniquely integrated transatlantic market; it calls for negotiations between the eu and the us and other partners on how to work collectively to tackle the environmental crisis and climate change; it calls also for more joint commitment to achieve financial market stability.
but the eu also has a proud tradition of human rights and environmental protection in its international agreements.
the european union and the republic of moldova aim at the mutual protection of geographical indications (gis) in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade as well as to promote the quality in the food chain and stimulate the value for sustainable rural development.
the number of people worldwide affected by disasters, including as a consequence of global climate change, is on the rise.
at its heart, mifid is about creating a positive environment for investors, both large and small, and for the companies that need to raise money in our markets.
these measures have corrected ten years of waste by the previous labour government.
the proper development of cambodia’s land and natural resources could have a positive impact on the lives of its people if undertaken in a sustainable and equitable manner and within the framework of the human rights obligations of the government.
− i voted in favour of the council decision to conclude the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
the eu should work towards harmonisation of certification schemes as the main means of improving the energy consumption of office equipment through the eu energy star programme which provides both parties with third-party certification.
in the case of motorcycles, i think it is particularly important that we have brought the environmental and safety performance of motorcycles forward significantly.
these vehicles are going to become more popular in urban environments and contribute to lower-carbon transport, and it was absolutely right to give them this framework.
– madam president, there is significant concern regarding the justification of article 18, which fails to provide any evidential basis for anti-tampering or for powertrains on functional safety and environmental grounds.
if it is not about licence requirements and is based solely upon safety and environmental objectives, why are bikes over 48 horsepower exempt?
what we really need is a credible federal economic government clearly responsible for and to taxpayers and delivering sustainable fiscal and economic policy.
the report claims that it will achieve sustainable growth and a high level of employment, but it admits that unemployment in the 27 has risen by 50% from 2008 to 2012. in those countries for which the euro is overvalued, mass unemployment and negative growth are directly attributable to eurozone membership.
it is important for infrastructure in transport, energy and telecommunications.
there are no concerns with respect to worker health or environmental exposure.
the need for increased safety in offshore oil and gas exploitation has been dramatically highlighted by recent accidents, most notably by the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010. offshore activities in the mediterranean are likely to increase due to the discovery of new reserves of fossil fuel, and an accident of this kind could have immediate large-scale effects on a semi-closed sea such as the mediterranean, causing tragic consequences for its economy and its fragile ecosystems, and undermining the efforts made by eu mediterranean coastal member states to achieve and maintain good environmental status in their marine waters, as required by the marine strategy framework directive.
a policy of sustainable governance of oil and gas offshore activities is clearly needed.
− it is vital for us in the european union to develop our plentiful resources, particularly in straitened times, but we must do so safely, sustainably, and with the minimum of harm to our environment.
− i voted for this report which ‘calls on member states and the commission to take all possible measures to improve education systems at all levels by: putting strong emphasis on early childhood development strategy; creating an inclusive school climate; preventing early-school-leaving; improving secondary education and introducing guidance and counselling, providing better conditions for young people to successfully access tertiary education or to gain direct access to the job market; developing instruments aimed at better anticipating future skills needs and at strengthening cooperation between educational institutions, business and employment services; improving recognition of professional qualification as well as developing national qualifications frameworks’.
i also welcome the emphasis that this report places on the need to tackle youth unemployment in particular, calling on member states to create sustainable jobs whilst maintaining a balance between job security and flexibility in the labour market.
emission reduction measures included in the legislation should result in more efficient and cleaner vehicles; this is not only good for consumers, but good for the environment as well.
− i supported this report, the objective of which is to lay down harmonised rules on the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) with a view to ensuring the functioning of the internal market while at the same time providing for a high level of road and occupational safety and environmental protection.
in order to ensure a high level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection and complete the internal market for agricultural and forestry vehicles, i believe that it is appropriate to introduce a union approval procedure for all categories of vehicles, while at the same time taking due account of cost-benefit considerations, with special attention being given to small and medium-sized enterprises.
having transformed their economy by going through painful economic reform, my german friends tell me they resent subsidising what they see as the less productive countries but a sustainable monetary union requires fiscal transfers from taxpayers in richer countries to governments in less productive countries.
we do not know about the environmental constraints and whether or not our current law covers shale gas.
we have an opportunity as european legislators to make sure that if any country chooses to go ahead and exploit shale gas, we have in place proper environmental controls.
when we had the hearing in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, one lesson we learnt from our american counterparts and legislators was not to have to play catch-up after shale gas extraction has started.
a lot of the problems in the us were because at the beginning there were no environmental laws to protect the water table.
we have this opportunity, this space, and i hope we will take that space and support the report of the environment committee, which is a very balanced report on shale gas, and that is why it got a big majority in committee.
i hope that whatever happens on that amendment tomorrow, colleagues in this house will support the environment committee’s report.
as linda mcavan has just said, it falls to member states to decide whether they wish to go forward with exploiting shale gas deposits on their territories, but that exploitation must be in full compliance with eu environmental legislation.
we need a tightening of legislation with regard to mandatory environmental impact assessments, for example, and the separation of the licensing and authorisation processes, as in offshore drilling.
but shale gas poses a threat that goes much wider than the local environment.
for a start, we do not know exactly what its footprint is in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, including the fugitive methane emissions which tend to occur during fracking.
finally, and most importantly, burning gas unabated without capturing the co2 is simply not compatible with tackling climate change and the path to decarbonisation.
if we care about climate change, we need to leave it in the ground.
its time may come in the future, thanks to ccs, but, for today, the only climate-friendly way of achieving energy security in europe is to exploit renewable energy sources, not shale gas.
it is also of concern that methane is lost in the pipelines from russia, but as we start this new process of extracting shale gas in some countries, we need to get the environmental legislation right and clearly it is the case that methane does escape.
it has been a cause of pollution locally.
what has not been taken into account yet is how much that worsens the greenhouse gas effect when we exploit shale gas, and it is precisely because i do not know – nobody knows – at the moment exactly how much that we need the research from the joint research council to look into this and to give us some figures we can rely on.
in every part of the usa where shale gas is exploited, house prices crash by 25%, with environmental devastation from hundreds of platforms and huge, poisoned slurry ponds.
yes, it produces energy, but so would burning all our forests.
the answer to the energy crunch is not short-term fracking but long-term, safe, sustainable nuclear power and electricity- and hydrogen-fuelled transport systems.
that is the energy economy of the future.
– mrs lepage said that shale gas is incompatible with reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
is she aware of the fact that in the past five years in america, where they have been exploiting shale gas successfully, us emissions are down 450 million tonnes while we in europe, pursuing a green agenda, have seen our emissions actually rise?
mr president, on the face of it, and listening to this debate, i must say that shale gas is probably the most exciting development in the sphere of energy since the discovery of north sea oil.
this could provide energy for the uk for up to 50 years and create tens of thousands of jobs in the north west of england.
we also know from evidence in the united states that shale gas can reduce energy prices by up to 30%, which would be a welcome break for hard-working people in the uk in a time of recession.
lastly, shale gas can also provide us with much-needed energy security, because we can become more self-sufficient and not so reliant on the middle east and russia for our energy supply.
shale gas would bring more jobs, cheaper energy prices and energy security.
to me it seems obvious that shale must form a central part of any of our future energy policies.
let us not get caught up in green scare stories, because you have driven this debate on man-made climate change for too long with these scare stories and your green agenda.
i look now to reducing our co2 emissions and going for a non-carbon future, but throughout the 21st century we are going to be burning gas, to a greater or lesser extent.
there are other issues: the environmental concerns above all about water, both the injection into and the discharge of water, and the whole question of course-of-lifecycle analysis and the co2 effects.
it is clear from past experience in countries such as america and from studies that fracturing does pose unacceptable risks to the environment, to public health and to local constituents.
notwithstanding the environmental impact caused by emissions created by fracturing, the considerable amount of constituency concern is entirely understandable given the very real risk posed by fracking to both agriculture and tourism in places of beauty like fermanagh.
mr president, we have heard in this debate today how the greens are against nuclear power because of a 9.2 richter scale earthquake in japan and consequent tsunami; they are against shale gas because of a 1.2 richter scale earthquake in blackpool which is about the same you would get if you slam a door hard, and instead they are in favour of the green agenda which is covering my country, scotland, with gigantic industrial wind turbines, driving over a million scots into actual fuel poverty, wrecking the countryside and not reducing co2 emissions by a single gram.
now we know in america from the full exploitation of shale gas that they have dramatically reduced their emissions.
america is now very close to self-sufficiency in energy and, incidentally, is likely to be the world’s largest oil producer by 2020. we were told that fossil fuels would become scarcer and more expensive.
we are driving energy-intensive businesses out of europe entirely, and they are taking their jobs and investment with them.
our energy policy is sheer lunacy and must be abandoned.
european energy policy is yet another reason why my country would be better off out of the european union.
mr president, meeting the growing demand for energy is a major dilemma facing policymakers and governments around the world.
long-term strategic decisions may need to be taken to secure energy supply, ensure sustainability and keep costs to consumers at reasonable levels.
the exploration of shale gas reserves may provide another possible solution to the energy challenges which we face.
we must assess the impact of extraction and possible benefits for energy security, energy prices and employment alongside the possible environmental and safety concerns, human and animal health implications and the impact on tourism.
mr president, of course we need to reduce our dangerous levels of energy dependence on russia, but the extraction of shale gas requires millions of litres of water and chemicals, it threatens already scarce water supplies with contamination and it risks geological fracturing which can lead to earthquakes such as those we saw in blackpool in the united kingdom.
we have green, clean energy everywhere.
while we will, in some countries, to some extent, no doubt develop shale gas, we can invest now in alternative technologies that can provide for almost all of our energy needs.
– mr president, the honourable gentleman is quite right to point to the fact that there are protests against all kinds of energy development.
however, i am sure the honourable gentleman would also recognise that scientists are telling us that climate change is having greater effects than they were predicting even five years ago.
the more we use fossil fuels, the more we will be adding to man-made climate change, and the more we will see rising sea levels and other effects.
while shale gas is cleaner in these terms than coal, it is far less clean than the kind of alternative technologies which already exist and which, with a little more investment, could be developed just as effectively to supply our energy needs.
i think by comparison and, indeed, by the comparison of the number of jobs – local jobs – that we can create in the construction of things like wind turbines and the long-term, cheaper energy supplies that we can develop from these – energy supplies which will never run out – then the economics suggest that shale gas is not the way forward.
shale gas could be an abundant and cheap source of energy that could help re-ignite the economy.
also with carbon capture and storage technology, shale gas can be used as a low-carbon source of energy.
we are facing an energy crisis and ordinary citizens are suffering from a high cost of living.
i supported shale gas extraction as i believe it can be used as a tool to tackle climate change.
there are three topics of most importance: fundamental rights, the internal market and the environment.
we consider the correct implementation of the waste framework directive in all member states to be of the utmost importance, and we ask member states to deal with waste-management trouble spots decisively and swiftly.
we support wholeheartedly the underlying objective of the ley de costas, namely that the environment of the spanish coast should be protected from overdevelopment; and that issue continues to be a problem for spanish petitioners.
the common fisheries policy and its environmental degradation and now of course the euro are not just an economic but a social disaster which is engulfing the mediterranean and it is all based on flawed thinking that the state if it has power and money can create wealth.
when you cut out the waste, when you cut out the fraud, when you cut out the irregular payments, when you cut out the errors in the budget, then come back to us and ask for more money.
madam president, in the time of economic downturn energy prices are under the microscope.
we therefore have to consider all sources of energy available to us while respecting, of course, environmental concerns.
however, there are plenty of regions that are on their way to becoming more energy efficient and self-sustaining because of responsible exploitation of this resource.
madam president, cheaper energy is the chief motor of human economic progress.
every great advance in our living standards, from the industrial revolution onwards, has been accompanied by a fall in energy prices that allows production prices to fall and makes us more competitive.
but what is important is that we consider the impact not only on the environment but also the impact of the environmental movement on this.
it is often said that if the modern combustion engine was invented today the environmental movement would have killed it and we have to understand that we have to get the right balance between technological progress and saving our environment and protecting our environment.
given the energy needs of europe and our reliance on imported gas from russia, it is essential that we explore all the options that are available to us, while ensuring that we have proper environmental controls and regulations to put in place to ensure that the environment is properly protected.
this also has to go hand in hand with further investment in renewables as part of an energy mix that secures the future of eu energy needs going into the future.
madam president, unlike the previous report emanating form the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i can support this report, as it makes clear that it is up to each member state to make responsible decisions concerning shale gas.
yet it is clearly within the eu’s wider goals of enhancing energy independence to be open to exploiting this resource further.
the energy aspect to this issue is one thing.
after all the speeches about how we needed more money to make us more efficient and we were cutting out all the waste and we were really focusing on growth, the eu spent eur 600 000 awarding its own film prize.
it is absolutely right that we have the environmental impact assessment and that we understand that there are different types of ways of extracting shale gas and shale oil, but think of the geopolitical issues.
think of the fact that countries such as poland will no longer be dependent on russia for their energy needs.
so it is important that we understand all these impacts and give as much support as possible to the promotion of shale gas extraction, as long as we get the right balance between the benefits and the environmental concerns.
although this was a mere correction of a technical error i did not feel the climate was right to vote in favour of any agreement with israel.
− i believe that energy policy is and must remain a member state competence.
all commercial activities are covered by the relevant eu environmental legislation but the eu must not seek to extend its competences into the area of controlling the natural resources of member states.
− i voted for this report which among other things considers that the use of shale gas and other fossil fuels must be consistent with article 2 of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), which calls for the ‘stabilisation of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system’ and underlines that substantial lock-in to fossil fuel infrastructures such as shale gas could put this international objective out of reach.
i supported the report, which calls for strict regulation to ensure environmental and health safeguards and recommends caution until the commission have completed their research.
although i recognise the argument that shale gas could potentially reduce the need for energy imports and therefore increase energy security, we need to consider fully the environmental and safety implications.
energy exploitation must remain a member state competence; it is not for this house to seek to change that.
surely they should have a total pay freeze in absolute terms or, if anything, a pay cut, in the current climate?
the next item is the debate on – the oral question to the council on the climate change conference in doha (cop 18) by matthias groote, karl-heinz florenz, dan jørgensen, corinne lepage, satu hassi, miroslav ouzký, sabine wils, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000160/2012 – (b7-0364/2012), and– the oral question to the commission on the climate change conference in doha (cop 18) by matthias groote, karl-heinz florenz, dan jørgensen, corinne lepage, satu hassi, miroslav ouzký, sabine wils, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000161/2012 – b7-0365/2012).
we must carefully balance the risks of climate change with the economic prosperity of the eu.
while i believe that the transition to a low-carbon economy offers opportunities for growth and investment, i am also mindful that the eu-15 countries, where emissions are not falling, are those member states which are suffering the most from the euro crisis, for example portugal and spain.
while the british government supports a 30% reduction target for co2 emissions, i do not believe there is an appetite for this amongst member states.
– climate change has slipped somewhat down the political agenda.
i have to say that the anthropogenic debate regarding climate change is not entirely settled in my mind, but nevertheless i do support the eu 2020 mitigation agenda, although i worry that the higher, 30%, reduction target for emissions might put my country’s economy at a severe competitive disadvantage, and unless the other major players in the world, such as the usa, canada, japan and the brics, all sign up at the 2015 doha conference of the parties to the kyoto protocol, we will have problems for the future.
the issue of climate change has been overshadowed in public debate by other security concerns, especially in north africa.
but there have been three reports this week: the world bank’s estimate of a 4° temperature rise by the end of the century, the united nations saying action to curb emissions is falling short of what is needed and the european environment agency reporting that the effects of climate change are already being felt here in europe, as i have seen in my constituency in south-west england in the last day or two.
climate change is not only adding to the costs of government, it is aggravating the threats to peace and security as the greater impact of climate change beyond our borders causes war about water and adds to the number of climate refugees.
i call on the council to reinvigorate the informal steering group on climate change and to establish a climate envoy because, without that, very little will happen.
we also know that, by and large, it causes the least environmental damage.
– mr president, let me first of all congratulate mr ferreira on his important report on the small-scale fleet because not only is the artisanal fleet in eu waters by far the largest sector, representing over 80 % of the eu fleet by vessel number, with tens of thousands of fishermen, supporting thousands of coastal communities across the eu, but it is also a low impact sustainable fishery, matching all of the criteria that we are demanding as legislators.
the majority of fishing quotas have been allocated to large-scale fishing operations across the eu, leading to the situation where over 60 % of fish stocks in european waters are now fished beyond sustainable limits.
a discard ban, maximum sustainable yield and regionalisation are all issues that have come to the fore as the reform has progressed.
the practice of finning is unacceptable from the environmental point of view, because it threatens the sustainability of some shark species targeted by this practice, from the social and economic point of view, because it involves squandering a source of food with commercial value, and also from the moral point of view, because it shows a total disrespect for animal life.
this states that it is in the eu’s own interest to aim for a climate protection target of 30% by 2020 creating sustainable growth, additional jobs and energy independency.
− i supported this resolution which draws attention to the fact that energy security is closely related to climate change; considers that energy security must be improved by reducing the eu’s dependence on fossil fuels such as those imported from russia via pipelines; recalls that these pipelines will become vulnerable to disruption by the melting of the permafrost, and highlights that the transformation of the arctic represents one major effect of climate change on eu security; stresses the need to address this risk multiplier through a reinforced eu strategy for the arctic, and through an enhanced policy of eu-generated renewable energies and energy efficiency that significantly reduces the union’s reliance on external sources and thereby improves its security position.
− this report addresses the idea that climate-change-related crises, such as extreme weather patterns, will impact on global security.
it points out that natural disasters, exacerbated by climate change, are highly destabilising, particularly for vulnerable states, and calls upon the eu in its external action strategies, policies and instruments, to take these climate issues into consideration.
while the report does acknowledge that nato was at the heart of the first international answer to environmental security challenges back in 2004 (paragraph 5), the thrust of the report is pushing for a greater eu role and engagement for csdp.
meanwhile, my vote today recognises the economic, cultural and social value of our coastal fishing vessels of less than 12 metres, and is a step in the right direction for the local, sustainable and scientific management of our fisheries.
− i welcome the commission’s commitment to a new generation of sustainable fisheries agreements (sfas); underlines the importance of their economic, social and environmental impact assessments; stresses the need to make respect for human rights a necessary condition in the sfas and to ensure respect by partner countries of the core labour standards of the international labour organisation (ilo).
the fta has safeguard clauses on human rights and on the environment.
we would have gone further, and were uncertain that real and lasting changes were in place, so we passed the roadmap, which called for clear, measurable progress towards robust protection for minorities, environment protection and freedom of speech.
mr president, i want to ask why it is that, when 75% of the jobs in the eu and 99% of the companies in the eu and in my country – the united kingdom – are small businesses, that we spend so much time and energy on the big businesses and neglect – to our detriment – small businesses, which are the engines of job creation?
the trade element of the agreement can also drive reform in central america and create an environment where stability and prosperity lead to improved human rights standards.
i hope that the new energy star labelling scheme, which i voted in favour of establishing today, will allow offices to choose equipment which contributes to ambitious energy efficiency targets.
last year, the welsh government launched a national energy efficiency and savings plan which forms part of wales’ target of achieving a 30 % cut in carbon emissions by 2020. to achieve this, and even higher targets, we all need to change our behaviour.
− the energy-efficiency labelling programme is an important initiative of the eu and i welcome these amendments.
− i welcome this updating of legislation on the use of energy-efficiency labelling programs for office equipment.
the war against climate change will be won on the basis of many small battles.
− i voted for this report because it adapts the energy star regulation in line with a new agreement between the eu and the us.
the new agreement now provides greater clarity regarding the respective responsibilities of the commission and member states with respect to the enforcement of the eu energy star programme.
− i voted in favour of this first reading agreement, which adapts the energy star regulation in line with the eu-us agreement adopted in october.
with a 20 % reduction in energy consumption by 2020 a target for the eu, it is essential that the energy performance of office equipment is improved.
if measured as a sector, internet-related consumption and expenditure is now bigger than agriculture or energy.
another feature of this resolution is the pursuit of connecting with smes by working towards creating a favourable environment for better productivity and employment in europe.
it is clear that emsa is going down a similar route to so many other agencies – starting off with good intentions and based on co-operation, in order to provide member states of the commission with technical and scientific assistance in the field of maritime safety and the prevention of pollution by ships.
with more powers to prevent as well as cope with the effects of environmental disasters like the one in pembrokeshire, the agency will become more effective.
− whilst the eu’s agencies are under critical scrutiny in the current economic climate, it is clear that emsa is one such body which deserves our support.
my own country is highly dependent on a clean marine environment so i voted in favour of this report.
the european maritime safety agency (emsa) was set up in response to the pollution caused by the loss of the oil tanker erika.
the agency helps to ensure maritime safety and security and prevent marine pollution from ships, including by monitoring and assessing implementation of relevant eu law.
− this new regulation would allow the european maritime safety agency to monitor, prevent and tackle pollution caused by ships and from offshore oil and gas exploration and production activities.
emsa will provide pollution response action at the request of any member state and it can assist those third countries sharing a sea basin with the eu.
it will be entitled to intervene, for example, to tackle pollution caused by offshore oil and gas installations and not just pollution caused by ships, as is the case now.
it is also important for the uk to ensure that the extension of the agency’s marine pollution response capabilities to cover offshore installations is at the request of an affected state only, and that any explicit involvement in the analysis of the safety of these installations is limited.
i abstained on this report, as it does not mention how environmental standards will be upheld.
− this report placed particular emphasis on respect for international labour and environmental standards, and the involvement of civil society including trade unions in monitoring the process of trade liberalisation to ensure these core standards are promoted and upheld.
i also share the concerns of human rights groups, churches, ngos, trades unions and others that this agreement is not the right means by which to bring proper sustainable development to this region, in a way that is equitable and will help the poorest.
i abstained on this report, as it does not mention how environmental standards will be upheld.
– mr president, i listened with interest to ms andreasen, who was once again railing about waste and the cost to constituents in the uk of the eu budget.
firstly, this unilateral approach on financial transaction tax, on global warming policy, on all of these things, is rendering europe the low-growth economic disaster zone of the world.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
last friday in norfolk, i stood amongst 4 500 postcards to commissioner president barroso calling on him to act, and i saw a film of a previously healthy horse transported to italy that was so exhausted that it could not muster the energy to stand up.
like them, we have ideas and we have potential, we want a national powerhouse for green energy focused on our own energy needs and reinvested in the welsh national interest.
one atrocious waste of money is keeping strasbourg as a second european parliament seat.
− i welcome the fact that we were able in the end to agree a budget for 2013, although i would have liked to have seen further reductions in waste and greater emphasis on research, education and programmes to support jobs.
this is a waste of time.
i was disappointed that the report did not include a reference to environmental criteria being used but nevertheless thought the report to be a constructive way forward to increase the capacities of cardiff airport and others like it.
the proposal aims at updating existing measures in order to enable local authorities to improve the noise climate around airports in the union within the international framework of the icao’s balanced approach on noise management.
the legislation sought to improve the noise climate and to reduce the numbers of people affected by harmful aircraft noise.
i profoundly regret the deterioration in recent years in russia on human rights questions, including a climate of increasing impunity and corruption, as we saw over the magnitsky, litvinyenko and khodorkovsky cases, as well as the excessive prison sentence passed down to the members of pussy riot and recent proposals for anti-lgbt laws.
only with real and substantial investment and jobs can you return to growth and, in doing so, reduce public deficit to substantial and sustainable levels.
the resolution called for monitoring and coordination of eu steel policy and maintaining technical know-how in the eu which is essential, but the environmental dimension of the report was weak and i abstained on the final vote.