in the energy sector, your presidency could take the initiative of listing all existing sources of energy in europe.
we must know which energy sources are available in the european union and which of the investments we are making in the energy sector are not realistic, for example, we have photovoltaics in countries that do not have solar.
the existing sources of energy must therefore be recorded.
i propose these two initiatives in the fields of energy and employment.
ladies and gentlemen, we are one step closer to an important agreement on the improvement of the management of electrical and electronic waste.
as the green group we have in particular called for the collection targets to be increased and calculated on the basis of the waste generated, for distributors to be obliged to collect electrical and electronic waste without any obligation to buy from the consumer, and for stricter controls to be introduced on the reuse and export of such waste to non-oecd countries.
we have not succeeded in getting the producers to commit themselves to report the presence of nanomaterials in electrical and electronic waste, but we have succeeded in getting the commission to assess whether selective treatment of nanomaterials in such waste is necessary.
i hope that parliament will vote in favour of this and of course tackle the low collection rates, the improvement of management and treatment and the control of illegal exports of electrical and electronic waste to third countries.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council's position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market and their use (05032/2/2011 - c7-0251/2011 - 2009/0076 ((cod)) (rapporteur: christa klaß) (a7-0336/2011).
on the question of sustainable use: for the record, we are in favour but we still need to work on the review of active substances used in biocides.
therefore, let us focus firstly on the regulation and look at sustainable use on the basis of the report provided for in article 17a.
farmers are therefore facing a growing number of difficulties linked to the increase in the cost of inputs, but also to improving environmental and agronomic efficiency.
the subject of crop diversification, which is raised in the report, is also dealt with in the proposals for reform of the cap as part of the commitment to the environment.
the european innovation partnership for agricultural productivity and sustainability and awards for innovative local cooperation in rural areas can help to promote innovative measures throughout the food supply chain.
the last point i would like to make, also in response to the point raised by the rapporteur, mr bové, before moving on to the other aspects more closely linked to imbalances in the food chain, concerns energy and water.
improving energy use in farms is clearly a win-win solution for all concerned.
in fact, this solution not only allows farmers to reduce costs but also has a positive impact on the climate.
the second pillar of the cap provides for mechanisms to promote renewable energy production inside and outside farms in rural regions, the processing of agricultural and forestry biomass and investments to rationalise the use of resources as well as mechanisms for energy saving.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
i therefore think it would be important to set up a european seed bank to store and preserve the genetic diversity of traditional plants and also to combat the loss of biodiversity in traditional varieties.
it requires a change in farmers' mindsets, knowledge and skills so that they adopt the most environmentally efficient, sustainable and innovative farming systems each time.
i voted in favour of mr moreira's report because i believe that the proposals of the un working group wp 29 will make a positive contribution to road safety, the environment and trade, which are the responsibility of all countries.
i voted in favour of mr simpson's report because most standards (such as environmental protection) and icao requirements are compatible with european legislation.
issues such as flight safety, air traffic management and environmental protection are of particular importance and require priority regulation.
biocides represent the third largest group of substances that are hazardous to human health and the environment, let alone products that people come into contact with on a daily basis.
they are often non-biodegradable, in some cases carcinogenic, and highly toxic substances, and may be harmful to humans, animals and the environment when used and subsequently disposed of as waste.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident.
this system has the potential to be an important factor in improving the availability of these products and protecting human health and the environment.
it is striking that it does not even mention that energy, fertilisers, pesticides, water, seeds, animal feed etc.
subsidised community programmes promote the concentration of land on large farms, in the framework of the cap and its revision beyond 2013. water privatization makes it more expensive to use, as do rising fees and energy prices.
the package of proposals referred to in the resolution contains general solutions to problems affecting the whole range of the supply chain on farms but also includes specific references to issues such as energy, soil improvers and plant protection products, animal feed, seeds for sowing.
i voted in favour of mr bove's report because i believe that his proposals are important and will contribute to improving the agricultural and environmental performance of farmers, which will lead to a more efficient use of productive resources.
finally, it focuses on small and medium-sized farmers, including family units, and the need to earn a decent income, produce food of adequate quality and quantity at affordable prices for consumers, create jobs, promote rural development and ensure the protection and sustainability of the environment.
in our view, food waste is not the main cause of the world food problem, but that does not mean that it does not exist.
in the last 35 years, the world's food waste has increased by 50%.
it turns out that in developed countries, most waste is found in the final stages of distribution and consumption - mainly because of the overabundance of food production - while in developing countries it is concentrated in the initial stages, due to the lack of advanced agricultural techniques, efficient transport systems and infrastructure, etc.
i therefore agree with the european parliament's call on the council, the commission and the member states, particularly in the midst of the economic crisis, to adopt strategies in this direction and with the proposal to declare 2013 the european year against food waste and that is why i supported this report.
i voted in favour of mr caronna's report because i believe that food waste is a problem which has not only european but also global dimensions.
food waste is an issue that, particularly in a time of global economic crisis, requires special attention and i am pleased that the european parliament is taking such an initiative to raise awareness among europeans.
according to the report, people in europe and north america waste between 200 and 400 pounds [95 and 115 kg] of food each year, the highest number in the world at a time when malnutrition is rampant in third world countries.
i agree that the fight against food waste must be a priority in the european political action programme and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
the second concerns energy sanctions.
energy includes multi-year contracts, 40 and 50 years, large infrastructure, rising consumer prices all over the planet.
the decision by the european union to impose sanctions, although necessary, is not simple because it will have the effect of raising oil prices and because it will also create a problem for the energy reserves of many countries.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, both the report by mr angulo and the number and content of the reports from citizens and bodies received by the commission prove two things: firstly, that the problem of waste is acute and burning and secondly, that, despite the gradations that of course exist, there is not a satisfactory performance by the member states in waste management, with the consequence of creating problems for health and the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a public place is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one, because it is not enough to say that the commission is not responsible for the fire.
the second comment i would like to make to the commissioner on the report is that the commission is washing its hands or is indifferent when it has to intervene in various cases, such as when there are obvious errors in the preparation of the waste management plan and in the environmental impact studies.
in such cases, commissioner, the commission must intervene and i think that the report, in general, is about a useful directive that will help us in waste management.
european citizens expect the public authorities to provide adequate and effective services, especially in the field of waste, which has a huge impact and harmful effects on public health and the environment.
according to the un, the problems facing humanity by 2030 are: combating social exclusion, migration and environmental issues.
i therefore recommend, as the report rightly points out, that the 2008 waste directive be implemented, which lays down rules for the protection of the environment and human health with the aim of preventing or reducing the negative effects of waste generation and management.
we need transparency in waste management because waste management is a big economic event.
i think it is obvious that in measuring environmental violations we need more objective data.
mr president, while the report describes the environmental crimes committed in waste management and the practices that are harmful to the environment, it nevertheless covers all the factors that cause them.
instead of proposing measures against the unrecoverable pollution caused by big business, the report openly advertises the destructive action of the industry's monopolies.
parliament welcomes the 1998 directive 2008, which upgrades energy combustion that damages the environment and endangers public health in order to multiply capital gains.
the same directive legitimizes the pollution immunity of industrial capital by allowing the mixing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
the report refers to the role of organised crime in creating environmental risks in order to conceal the real class crime against the environment perpetrated by monopolies, the institutions of the european union and the governments of the member states.
in greece, argolis, crete and many other areas, the health of workers is constantly endangered by the landfills that contain even toxic waste and operate next to their homes.
the solution for us, the communist party of greece, is to reverse the anti-environmental policy of the european union to ensure the health of workers and the protection of the environment.
the report rightly notes that access to modern energy services is an absolute prerequisite for poverty reduction, sustainable human development and the achievement of the un millennium development goals.
it is significant that over the next two decades, significant global investments in the energy sector are forecast to reach $26 trillion, when just 3% of this amount would be sufficient to achieve universal access to energy for the human population by the year 2030. however, many developing countries have failed to improve access to electricity for the poor, mainly because this investment is not a profitable business if there are subsidies.
meanwhile, as the financial aid provided by the eu, the world's third largest donor, has been too small to provide access to energy for the poor, the report proposes some targeted measures to make europe's aid more effective for citizens in developing countries who lack access to energy.
however, because in this climate we must also protect the rights of consumers, my remarks are, firstly, because in this system the change that will be made will be costly, it should not be the citizens who pay the costs in accordance with the well-known practice of banks to pass on such costs to the citizens.
finally, i voted against the failure to ensure that crops are grown in accordance with the necessary criteria of food safety and respect for the environment and the conservation of natural resources.
the current economic crisis in europe will worsen living conditions for a new, very large part of the population and this must be addressed in a sustainable and coherent way.
it is noted, however, that decisions taken in this critical economic environment - with unemployment rising rapidly, with youth reaching 50% in some member states, with recession affecting much of the euro area and with europe's own europe 2020 targets appearing unrealizable - should have greater democratic legitimacy.
recovery and sustainable development are incompatible with austerity, recession, unemployment and poverty, which are essentially institutionalized.
the only way out of the crisis is to reverse these policies and implement alternatives aimed at economic efficiency, social and environmental justice and sustainable development.
on the other hand, between last summer and recent weeks, a broad range of structural measures has been adopted on taxation, pensions, competition, the business environment and the efficiency of the public administration.
the most recent measures on opening up closed sectors and administrative simplification can contribute to improving competitiveness and a business environment, removing long-standing bottlenecks to growth and ultimately increasing the adjustment capacity of the economy.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
they are cultivating a war climate to justify open imperialist intervention in the region by the eu, nato and the usa.
the first milestone was the adoption of the nuclear safety directive in 2009, followed by the waste management directive in 2011. i would like to thank parliament for the constructive role it has played in the adoption of these two key elements.
international cooperation, particularly in the framework of the international atomic energy agency, is more important than ever.
i voted in favour of mrs pietikäinen's report because i believe that women's participation in the decision-making process on an equal footing with men is an important factor in achieving equality, sustainable development, peace and democracy.
twelve years after the bologna declaration, the climate in the eu is very different.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
these resources represent an opportunity to finance the priorities of the fisheries fund, such as sustainable development, sustainable fisheries and the development of coastal areas, as well as support for young fishermen.
the provision of adequate resources and the elimination of absorption failures is crucial to achieve the desired results and to ensure the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine resources.
the uncontrolled overfishing and destruction of the environment, including protected areas under the natura 2000 programme, which is being carried out with the approval of the governments of the member states of the european union, will not be stopped or stopped because the criterion of the common fisheries policy is to increase the profitability of european monopolies.
every day we waste is a missed opportunity to overcome the problem.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
this resolution, which i voted in favour of, calls on the member states, and in particular the european commission, which concludes bilateral agreements with cocoa producing countries, in particular those in africa, to ensure, inter alia, that all trade agreements include effective provisions and legally binding clauses on internationally recognised human rights, social and environmental standards and their enforcement, and that they provide for action in the event of violations;
in writing.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we are dealing with russia unilaterally at a time when we need to start with a multifaceted cooperation in the fields of trade, energy, culture and education and then move on to human rights.
we all agree that only a comprehensive approach can bring a sustainable solution to the problem of piracy.
i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the environment, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the environment.
third, the ets and the carbon leakage conditions have been completely reversed compared to 2008. the deep crisis in southern europe, combined with the rapid industrial development in turkey, for example, has turned the tables.
turkey will have an average of more than 27 emissions in the current decade without having made any commitments and without showing any desire to make any commitments on its emissions.
i noted with great interest yesterday that the vice-premier of poland, mr waldemar pawlak, very clearly stated in the polish press that, for instance, when it comes to energy efficiency, he saw the very large potential in poland, also in economic terms.
of course we also have an eu budget which could help some member states to make a transition and achieve energy efficiency and more efficient grid systems and so on.
it is not bringing the world fast enough to where it should be, but i think that durban was proof that it is possible to push international climate negotiations forward a little.
to focus on energy efficiency and renewables will also be in our own industrial, economic and job-wise interests.
to mention just one fact: even poland is importing energy from outside.
so this is also about our economy and our energy security.
it would be good if, through intelligent climate and energy policies, we could reduce that kind of bill and at the same time increase our energy independence.
a new one on climate was produced last autumn, the first since 2009. never have the europeans been as concerned about climate change, and they asked for intelligent climate policies which also address energy efficiency, energy security and can also lead to growth and jobs in europe.
i think that it is totally irresponsible not to plan for the future – especially here, because the kind of investments you are talking about when it comes to energy systems, for instance, lock in your energy choices for the next 40, 50 or 60 years.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the 6th world water forum, tabled by mr richard seeber, mrs sophie auconie, mrs daciana octavia sârbu, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, mr satu hassi, mr miroslav ouzký and mrs sabine wils, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000013/2012 - b7-0101/2012)
mr president, i would like to ask you and the house to vote on the report by mr chris davies, as it is rightly proposed.
low carbon emissions require their replacement by new forms of energy.
it is clear that europe's energy dependence and the damage that hydrocarbon exploitation has caused to the global ecosystem are pressing for a common european strategy with a 40-year horizon for europe's energy future.
the economic crisis that the country is currently going through should not only not disorient us but, on the contrary, should alert us to finally exploit, for the benefit of the country, for the benefit of society and the environment, the comparative advantages we have in the field of alternative energy sources.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency and the establishment of a european environment agency.
the united nations millennium declaration of 8 september 2000, which contained the millennium development goals, envisaged, among other things, the halving by 2015 of the proportion of the population without sustainable access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation, a target which does not appear to be being achieved.
the protection of the environment, including drinking water resources, and the protection of public health must continue to be priorities for any water management policy.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the european parliament has also expressed its support for the commission's proposal to establish a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in addition, the eib's contribution to furthering the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and its contribution to climate projects is noteworthy.
in the difficult economic climate europe is experiencing, there is a great need for the european investment bank to continue the work for which it was set up.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
at the same time, the sustainability of italy’s public finances and of course the development of its employment depends on its growth prospects, especially in the context of recession, as is the case today.
the rigorous implementation of the measures that have been adopted so far, especially to open up competition in product and services markets, to improve the business environment and to make better use of structural funds for investment, will be crucial in delivering their full benefits.
therefore it is essential for spain, as part of its reform efforts, to take concrete action to ensure better sustainability of the autonomous regions’ public finances.
for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation we need more european cross-border and community investment in infrastructure, energy and transport and in innovation, research and communications, and i therefore call on the eu member states to provide, without any delay, additional capital to the european investment bank.
the next item is the report by mrs astrid lulling, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the taxation of energy products and electricity (com (2011) 0169 - c7-0105/2011 - 2011/0092 (cns)) (a7-0052/2012)
i would like to refer to the proposal to abolish the exemptions for the shipping and aviation sectors.
as a goal, the reduction of carbon emissions from both sectors is not only legitimate but absolutely necessary.
the demand for services in both sectors is estimated to double by 2050, and of course it would be criminal to let carbon emissions increase by the same amount.
both sectors, and in particular the shipping industry, would be exposed to a very serious risk of 'carbon leakage' if fuel taxes were imposed at eu level by refuelling ships outside the eu and adapting their transport routes.
indeed, it is imperative to create conditions for economic growth at a critical juncture, in an economic climate where budget cuts are also significantly affecting greek public investment, while the lack of liquidity and access to finance are also hampering public-private partnerships.
mr president, a similar risk-spreading tool is certainly appropriate, provided that it is aimed at shifting the economy in directions that make it more sustainable and more compatible with ecological objectives.
the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the revised proposal for a directive modifies the structure of energy taxation so as to support the objective of an economy less dependent on and more reliant on coal and more on alternative energy sources.
the report, which i voted in favour of, is positive for countries that are turning to solar energy and therefore offers greece an additional incentive to turn to new forms of energy and at the same time economic opportunities that will help the country to get out of its difficult economic situation.
for example, according to the commission's proposal, energy taxes are divided into two parts.
the first will be on co2 emissions and the second on energy content.
in both cases, greece, a country rich in solar and wind energy, has a clear comparative advantage which it can immediately exploit and secure through low taxation and high competitiveness to its own benefit and, above all, to that of its citizens.
progress needs to be immediate and sustainable.
iter is an important project that aims to demonstrate that fusion is an energy source for the future.
today, in a very difficult economic environment, there are differences between member states in the provision of online services, and these differences in turn create a significant competitiveness gap.
the next item is the report by mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on our life insurance, our natural capital: an eu biodiversity strategy for 2020 (2011/2307 (ini)) (a7-0101/2012)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
more fish means stronger coastal communities, means, obviously, better biodiversity and fishermen with better incomes.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in all international organisations, in all international forums, statements and commitments to combat climate change and protect biodiversity are in excess.
but the truth is that despite the declarations, biodiversity continues to decline globally in general, in europe and in greece in particular, at rates up to 1000 times faster than naturalists.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal to the council for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the european union must promote investment in agricultural and rural infrastructure, knowledge transfer, institutional improvements, all while ensuring that natural resources, energy and the climate are not burdened.
the fact that half the cases are on taxation and the environment is telling, because we are talking about economic and monetary union at the moment and we see that when these two things do not go together, we have problems and a crisis in europe and the euro is threatened.
this might seriously reduce our powers here in this house, and also in the national parliaments, to regulate on environment-related, social and labour issues.
it is proposed to maximise economic profit and benefits, but our own eu assessment – the economic, social and environmental assessment – says there is no solid evidence to suggest that investor-state dispute settlement will maximise economic benefit in ceta beyond simply serving as one form of enforcement mechanism, just as state-state settlement is also an enforcement mechanism.
the memorandum should therefore place a strong emphasis on energy efficiency and resource efficiency, as this could improve the country's finances and create jobs by revitalising the economy.
on 30 may we will also set our line on implementing the stability and growth pact in a growth-friendly and differentiated way, applying its inbuilt scope of judgment, which focuses on the structural sustainability of public finances over the medium term and takes into account the fiscal space and macro-economic conditions of each member state.
we will use these opportunities in the summits to urge member states to deliver on the commitments they have made to strengthen stability, implement structural reforms and boost sustainable growth and employment.
we can never have sustainable growth as long as we have an unsustainable debt.
we would also remind you that the europe 2020 strategy is the agenda for the long-term health and sustainability of our economy.
meeting its climate and energy targets alone could create up to five million new jobs in europe, putting almost a quarter of our unemployed people into work.
we want to invest them better and use the funds as catalysts to boost sectors such as renewable energy sources.
last november’s green paper on stability bonds will be followed up soon, ideally with a medium-term to long-term roadmap that outlines the deeper fiscal and economic integration necessary in order to minimise moral hazard and ensure fiscal sustainability – in other words, the features of an economic and political union required to make mutualisation of debt rational for all.
that is why it is so important to stay the course on sustainable and sound public finances.
we are confident that there is now the political will and determination to move forward, starting with many of the proposals for sustainable growth that the commission has already put on the table.
it is done to give false hopes so that the doubts and criticisms expressed in greece, france and possibly ireland are not generalised, or there is a genuine willingness to change the climate and to have a change of policy, which i do not see.
mr president, i congratulate mr rueda on his report, because in addition to proposals for incorporating the new iccat recommendation on the management of tuna stocks, which is certainly one of the most profitable fisheries, he has also presented us with a number of proposals concerning the overall proper management of the marine environment.
this is because it can raise significant revenues which can be used for stimulating growth, job creation and smart fiscal consolidation as well as public goods such as development goals and tackling climate change.
this is what we need for fair taxation, a level playing field in the single market and to meet global challenges such as climate change and development.
regulation of this class of oil tankers at european level follows major natural disasters caused by oil spills from tanker wrecks, such as the prestige disaster in 2002. in order to learn from past mistakes, this regulation seeks to reduce the risks of pollution of european waters by hydrocarbons through the introduction of the double-bottoming system.
this design will protect the cargo tanks from avarice and thus reduce this risk of pollution.
we must stop importing products and materials that end up in our waste.
written declarations (rule 149)
the next item is the oral question to the commission on swiss quotas in the number of residence permits issued to citizens of poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary by: rafał trzaskowski, andreas schwab, simon busuttil, josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, elmar brok, csaba őry, jacek saryusz-wolski, romana jordan, róża gräfin von thun and hohenstein, iáll gólócz-pel, małgorzata handzlik, on behalf of the group of the european people's party; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
energy is one of the most important conditions for creating a climate of economic growth and prosperity in the eu, and therefore in greece.
weakness because it does not ensure energy self-sufficiency, advantage because as the world's leading energy importer it can negotiate with suppliers on good terms.
in any event, while ensuring reliable and cost-competitive access to global energy supplies, it is of great importance for enhancing europe's competitiveness and security to make the best possible use of the member states' own resources, means and reserves.
the european union is facing critical challenges: economic, demographic, social and environmental.
the multiannual financial framework should be a powerful and effective tool for the recovery of the european economy, sustainable growth, job creation, investment stimulation, the promotion of research and innovation, and the achievement of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
madam president, for the stability of our common currency and the credibility of the euro area, with a view to sustainable growth and employment, budgetary discipline is essential.
that is why i thank you for noting that in the single market act, which we have just discussed and which we will discuss again in september, there is a chapter on taxation, which my colleague mr šemeta has proposed along with energy taxation, the harmonization of the basis of taxation of corporation tax and also the financial transaction tax.
i know that the growth we expect, which we must rebuild, will not come from decrees or speeches, but from the territories and small and mediumsized enterprises, provided that we promote, through our laws and by simplifying our texts, the most favourable ecosystem for small and mediumsized enterprises.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the sooner there are proper solutions in those areas, the sooner we will have a better macro-economic environment in which to address employment policies too.
the next item is the report by mr jános áder, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention of the use of certain dangerous substances in the manufacture of certain dangerous products (com (2010) 0781).
in this respect, i am pleased to see that our ideas converge, as the report focuses on issues such as the importance of water accounts, ecosystem services and minimum water flow for environment, water pricing and cost recovery.
implementation of the blueprint’s proposals will be supported by the innovation partnership on water, recognised in your report as a tool to help deliver win-win solutions for the environment and the economy: creating green jobs while finding innovative solutions to our water challenges.
the blueprint will also address this, for instance by highlighting ways to remain within sustainable leakage level, and to finance water infrastructure through the cohesion policy.
some of the problems identified in the opinion adopted unanimously are the uneven implementation of the framework directive, the adequacy of water resources, the sources of water pollution, the conflict with other european policies and the involvement of citizens at all stages of the procedures, as provided for in the framework directive, both in identifying problems and in finding appropriate means.
the opinion places particular emphasis on the disposal of hazardous toxic and radioactive waste which is discharged into water and landfills, with a high impact on the environment and public health.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the establishment of a macro-regional strategy in the mediterranean will be able to help the participating countries to deal with the specific problems arising from the characteristics of certain regions: drought, marine pollution and tourist development.
this can best be achieved by allocating the appropriate resources and adopting an integrated approach in the transport and energy sectors.
to satisfy the demands and aspirations of the monopolies, in an environment of "social peace", of delusions and hopes that are crushingly denied, leaving the workers in bondage to fatalism, compromise, submission to the union of capital, hand and foot surrendered to the barbarity of capitalist exploitation.
the establishment of a macro-regional strategy in the mediterranean could help the participating countries to better address the specific problems arising from the characteristics of certain regions, drought, marine pollution and tourism development.
this can best be achieved by allocating the appropriate resources and adopting an integrated approach in the transport and energy sectors.
intellectual property rights (ipr) are the eu's most valuable tool for supporting innovation, which is also a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the report avoids mentioning the criminal obsession of the community institutions to maintain lethal concentrations of weakened chromium in drinking water (maximum limit of 50 μg/l), a problem of extreme gravity for health and the environment.
on the issue of access to drinking water, 'welcomes the rapid achievement of the un millennium development goal on sustainable access to safe drinking water', despite the fact that the exploitative capitalist system deprives millions of people of the natural good of drinking water, with over two and a half million children dying every year and 800 million people still drinking unsafe water;
in writing.
sustainable water management ensures that ecosystems in the member states receive sufficient quantities of quality water to function and provides security of access to food and water for all.
for our country, which is facing issues of overgrazing, climate change and periodic droughts, this debate is becoming vital.
it is clear that future economic growth will only be sustainable if it is decoupled from the adverse environmental impacts of water.
i voted in favour of this report as it proposes ideas and measures to promote the attractiveness of investing in europe including policy recommendations to member states targeted at enhancing the eu investment environment.
− madam president, there are two parallel procedures as usual on the basis of our proposal for the 2013 budget and this is being done in the very specific climate of today’s europe.
these are the fiscal consolidations seen as condicio sine qua non of sustainable development in europe and on the other hand, even at a time of crisis, the need for investment to create conditions for future growth and jobs.
cyprus, seeing how its neighbour israel has moved towards energy independence with the discovery of natural gas, has boldly and rationally entered into a business alliance with israel without disturbing its relations with the arab world, in the hope of achieving energy independence for the island.
let's see how the energy sector can be transformed and used as a vehicle for achieving peace and stability.
but at the same time, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must say that the economic environment, the economic difficulties facing europe as a whole, but especially the european citizens, make the issue politically very serious and we must clearly reconsider it.
it also includes a number of provisions aimed at simplifying the current legislative environment and easing the administrative burden for member states.
when it comes to any one country, do they have one judge for sure, who is already there, and the new one has to rotate, and his mandate will not be renewable?
the eu recognises the increasing importance of georgia as an energy-transit country and appreciates its cooperation in developing the southern energy corridor.
let us make the world environment organisation a reality.
a total of €1.5 trillion is expected to be invested in europe in transport, energy and ict infrastructure over the period 2010-2020. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts in the field of health and safety at work.
the commission has therefore proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
immediate release of all palestinian prisoners and members of the palestinian legislative council
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i was sad to see that once again in parliament, this time in the committee on the environment, an amendment was voted down on the labelling of products from cattle fed on gmos.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and socialist member mrs roth-behrendt on her excellent work and hope that the vote in the plenary will reverse the bad results in the committee on the environment and will work to really protect the rights of european citizens and public health in europe.
i also believe that the new legislative initiative, which has been envisaged since 2013, does not serve the predictability and stability of the economic environment.
so we need to combine realism with ecological sensitivity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i would like to add the following: one way to turn energy efficiency into an energy source is to reach out to the citizens of europe with the aim of embracing a specific behaviour.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy efficiency directive is implemented in the member states.
we could also have pan-european information and guidance campaigns for european citizens on energy awareness and behaviour.
the specific topic for question time today is the state of play of the energy market acquis (3rd package) implementation.
- we have different legal bases for our europeanisation of energy policy.
the first is the euratom treaty, which is still the primary law, the second is the treaty of lisbon, with its own section on the europeanisation of energy legislation, and the third is our general internal market rules, which have been in force for decades in the case of oil and coal and have been in force for 15 years in the case of gas and electricity.
and then we have the 20 2020 targets as binding energy and climate policy.
so the question of whether nuclear power is to be used or not, or coal, if so, how much and for how long, or renewable energy beyond the binding european target, i.e.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the effects of nuclear power.
this means that a global market for co2 emissions is not yet emerging.
we presented three studies last week on shale gas and its environmental impact and risks.
another point: renewable energy is not really an opponent of gas, but a partner.
electricity from solar and wind energy requires supplementary electricity production, and gas is the natural partner.
whether the gas comes from russia, norway or algeria or from our rock formations, the renewable energy partner doesn't really care.
this is not a special case for energy, but applies equally to consumer protection, the economy and other sectors of the internal market.
we believe that our infringement procedures are successful and that in the next few years we will see the single market law in the field of energy being implemented in all member states on a one-to-one basis.
− i voted in favour of this report because, by switching to more stringent sulphur limits, it would be possible to achieve significant health and environmental benefits in a cost-efficient way by implementing the 0.1% limit more widely than just in europe’s existing secas, resulting in a different level playing field as regards the cost impact of reform.
the multiannual financial framework, which was launched in a stable and optimistic environment in 2006, is being completed the following year in a completely different economic environment.
certainly new challenges, which are of particular concern to greece, such as the widening youth unemployment, the importance of more intervention initiatives by the european investment bank, and the importance of creating a climate of economic growth and investment should be included in the new multiannual budget package.
this report is guided by the understanding that donations should be voluntary and made on a non-profit-making basis and in an environment of transparency.
however, in today's difficult economic environment, smart investment, production-oriented and innovation-driven initiatives must be at the forefront in order to restore positive and sustainable growth rates.
the report, which i voted in favour of, stresses, among other things, that the union's policy should aim at creating an environment favourable to the development of legal tender, accessible to all.
the aim of eu policy must be to create an environment conducive to the development of universally accessible legal content, to innovation and to creation.
it is encouraging that the issue of net neutrality is of fundamental importance in this new online environment.
the exploitation of natural gas in the eastern mediterranean region can also be a factor of security and stability for the union and contribute to the achievement of energy diversity.
according to available data, 75% of the union's fish stocks are overexploited and more than 60% of fish stocks in european waters are fished beyond maximum sustainable yield.
the main emphasis is on maximum sustainable yield.
the pursuit of maximum sustainable yield is an ambitious objective that will contribute to the recovery of the population of fish stocks.
in our day and age and in the current economic climate, we all know how wasteful this practice is and how destructive it is to the environment and to the viability of the stocks.
this text is a cross-party compromise and calls on the commission to ‘assess the possibility of establishing a network of closed areas in which all fishing activities are prohibited for a certain period of time in order to increase fish productivity and conserve living aquatic resources and the marine ecosystem’.
because there is this method - get rich by waste, by consumption.
the aim is not to revise the council's 2010 cfsp report but to provide an approach on the future of the eu's strategy in the external environment.
i voted in favour of mr haglund's report because i believe that the proposals it contains enhance the sustainability and recovery of fish stocks and reinforce the role and importance of multiannual recovery plans for fish stocks.
this is not the first time that we have sought to strengthen our common position on external energy relations.
we have thus for the first time in history a european energy policy.
if not, we shall be proposing in a few years how to develop the subject of energy policy.
- the mr president, the new information exchange mechanism will in fact increase the consistency and coherence of the union's external energy relations, while also strengthening the union's strategic position in its relations with third countries.
it should not be forgotten that the european union remains heavily dependent on energy imports, making the functioning and energy supply of the energy market in many cases uncertain.
the whole project will be ancillary in nature and should not replace the member states as the competent entities for concluding energy agreements with third countries.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
for example, we are currently dealing with the energy supply of lithuania, in which the commission has already opened an investigation against gazprom for antitrust practices.
we hope that the new mechanism will not disrupt the existing good energy situations and relations of the member states with third countries.
i think that energy should be outside the rules of foreign policy, because energy is characterized by a long duration and predictability which foreign relations do not have.
to conclude, let me reiterate the council’s hope and conviction that the existing excellent climate of cooperation will prevail during the rest of the budgetary procedure, leading to a mutually-satisfying agreement on the 2013 budget.
mr president, both the opportunities and the challenges facing island regions have to do with the specificities of islands: the islands face serious difficulties in transport and fuel prices, which have been rising since the economic crisis, but at the same time they are a fertile ground for research and development in renewable energy sources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy performance of the member states.
for example, parliament has in a written statement since the beginning of the year called for support for sustainability in the islands to meet or exceed the eu 2020 targets.
looking to the future, the next mff must ensure that the european union’s budget is geared to lifting europe out of the crisis in a sustainable way.
at a time of exceptional fiscal discipline it is essential that the future mff reflects the consolidation efforts being made by member states to bring their deficits and debt onto a more sustainable path.
the european parliament, in drawing up the new budget, is placing emphasis on supporting sustainable growth, competition and employment, particularly for smes and young people.
i have already discussed the plan for the coming weeks with the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the committee voted against the report because both the 1978 international convention on maritime education of the international maritime organisation and the so-called 'manila amendments' proposed for incorporation into eu law are far behind and do not address the needs for modern and high-quality maritime education, ensuring the effective protection of human life at sea and the environment.
the economic environment in which the eu finds itself creates cracks in the development goals set by the europe 2020 strategy.
we have to harmonize our policies, including, mr correia de campos, energy.
the absence of a single energy market, which mrs vergnaud also mentioned, costs consumers 13 billion.
we must therefore harmonise the single energy market.
we cannot reform, we cannot win the battle of competitiveness and sustainable growth without social cohesion, without social dialogue, without respect for the social partners.
its actions serve the anti-people europe 2020 strategy and the energy giants, while taking away significant resources for the benefit of the project, connecting europe.
madam president, greece has recently made a monumental effort, alongside economic efforts, to combat illegal immigration, and this in an environment of extremist and racist voices.
i voted in favour of the report on the eu's accession to the overseas protocol to the barcelona convention, which protects the mediterranean from pollution by offshore exploration and exploitation of its seabed.
although it is not possible to eliminate the risks of such mining entirely, the 'offshore protocol' is a tool that provides safety standards for the protection of the marine environment, environmental impact assessment and environmental responsibility.
for its inhabitants, the mediterranean plays a vital role in their daily lives and i believe that, beyond the environmental dimension, the ratification of the protocol by the eu will allow us to work in harmony with our non-eu mediterranean partners to ensure better protection of this sea for all its users.
the fact that mediterranean states with bad relations are cooperating under the barcelona convention and its protocols demonstrates the extent to which environmental protection can contribute to peace and international cooperation.
the european parliament's report, which i voted in favour of, is a consequence of the well-known 'barcelona convention', signed in 1976 and amended in 1995. under this, the european union and all eu mediterranean coastal member states comply with basic principles for the protection of the mediterranean (licensing, removal of abandoned or decommissioned installations and harmful substances) and take responsibility for the marine environment.
− i voted in favour of this report because social enterprises are important drivers of sustainable development and social innovation and they have a major role to play in achieving the social, employment and educational targets of the eu 2020 strategy.
a favourable climate for social enterprises in combination with a strong political framework and the necessary funding will allow for these enterprises to survive in the current crisis and to thrive.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by mr bogusław sonik, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the impact of shale gas and oil extraction activities on the environment[2011/2308 ((ini)) ] (a7-0283/2012), and - the report by mrs niki jawella, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil extraction[2011/2309 ((ini)) (a7-0284/2012) environmental aspects of shale gas and oil extraction activities
thank you for your intervention.
this is how we reach optimal decisions in an area involving social and environmental issues, industrial competitiveness and, in particular, public trust.
based on american experience – because we do not have any european experience on this – shale gas is potentially the biggest energy development since the 1920s, as big a change as when we switched from using coal to oil.
the shale gas-related developments in the usa will have a profound impact on global energy demand and geopolitics.
one of the key and legitimate concerns of the european energy liberalisation project was that liberalisation would have limited effect unless there were new sources of gas.
with a correct safety approach, highest safety standards and the application of best available technologies, shale gas could be a huge gain to eu energy security and diversity, as well as a potential contributing factor to europe’s reindustrialisation in the years to come.
europe needs a vision and a clear message of how gas fits into its energy policy.
whether we use shale gas or not, in as little time as we have been hearing about it we have already been witnesses to its significance as a global energy trendsetter for markets, energy demand and cost partners.
shale gas is perhaps not the panacea for europe’s energy problems overall.
unconventional fuels are still at an infant stage in europe and we should explore the options available and the possible benefits as rigorously as we examine and analyse the potential environmental effects.
on the commission’s side, coordination between dg energy, dg enterprise, dg environment and dg climate action will now be vital as you take this forward.
please, since i am the rapporteur of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i do not need any lobbyists to influence me.
real energy independence is to get rid of coal.
what we do not have is a mandate from the energy policy side or a general mandate to decide on shale gas with a yes or no.
what we have, what my colleague has first of all, are the rules in force, a valid european legal framework for environmental protection, for soil and groundwater protection and also for health protection.
the question is - and we are analysing this - whether we need to extend our legislation on the environment, climate, nature and health.
secondly, the european energy mix is already being affected by the development of shale gas in america.
i say to you explicitly that the energy mix, the technology, is a matter for the member states and i do not believe that a change to article 194 will be accepted by the member states in our generation because the circumstances of the member states are so different that the decision for or against nuclear power, or how long nuclear power, how much, for or against coal, gas, renewable energies is not left to the european level by the 28 member states.
i am in favour of a strong expansion of renewable energy.
but 100 per cent renewable energy for transport, for heat, for electricity, for industry is a long-term vision at the moment, and if you want to achieve it too soon, it's an illusion.
in fact, it was widely understood here in parliament that gas is the most flexible and environmentally friendly complementary energy source for security of supply alongside rising renewables.
mr president, i would like to say to you that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of introducing a new system of energy prices for the community, which is a system which is not only a system of energy prices but also a system of energy prices for the community.
i argue that we will need gas, whether conventional or non-conventional, for the next 30 years if the deployment of non-baseload, non-permanently available renewable energy sources such as solar and wind in europe is to remain compatible with security of supply and affordability.
my request is this: despite all the disagreements, if we want to reach an agreement among all the member states, from belgium to germany to poland and the uk, on energy and climate policy and thus retain competence and authority in energy policy matters, also for the next and the next european parliament, then we need a willingness to compromise.
we need a compromise between energy strategy and environmental protection.
we need the british to be willing to compromise so that, like tony blair, they are prepared to continue to europeanise energy and climate policy and not allow re-national developments to follow.
because one thing is clear: when it comes to climate protection, each member state alone is of no global relevance!
the eu-27 we are still responsible for 11% of global co2 emissions.
if we do not stand together, if we do not compromise, if we do not condemn lobbying and dependence on lobbyists, if we do not set new pragmatic targets for 2030 on co2 emissions reductions, efficiency and renewable energy, then this success story of european energy and climate policy will end sooner than some people think, but with it our importance to washington and beijing and to others and our role as a model.
so, apart from the issue of shale gas, i would ask you all to be willing to compromise if the success story of a european energy and climate policy is to continue with you or your successors in the next decade.
i see difficulties at the moment, with the anti-european sentiment in a growing number of member states, with the incredible diversity in the energy mix and with the growing mistrust that we have seen in this house today, in terms of advancing binding targets on co2 emissions reductions, renewable energy and efficiency.
reserves, best technology, influence on health, influence on the environment.
it is also true that this has changed their energy market there, but maybe in this case their being ahead of us is not so bad and we should learn from their experiences.
what we already know is that there are considerable risks in a number of areas: surface and ground water, air quality, land use, biodiversity, seismic risks, local communities’ traffic and noise disturbances.
another study, on climate impact, was carried out by connie hedegaard’s departments, and the third was on the environmental impact.
what can be concluded – even if one conclusion is of course that we should continue with work of this kind in an analytical way – is that there are two conclusions we can draw from an environmental point of view and our analyses.first, the risks related to unconventional gas exploration are higher than in conventional gas exploration.
second, existing environmental legislation on the ea, the ca, the mining directive, the water framework directive, reach and so on, is important and applicable and should be applied today.
the form has not yet been decided because this is also connected, of course, with the impact assessment which we are starting, but i would just like to remind everybody that the international energy agency (iea) position also is, and i quote, ‘there is a clear need for a strict regulatory framework’.
i am not denying, rather i am acknowledging, that some industries, especially industries which have higher energy inputs and costs of course, are very affected by how energy prices are moving, as are households.
but to give you just one fact: last week i was at the vdi, at the german innovation engineering federation, and they have actually said quite clearly that the average input costs for german manufacturing industry are 2% energy, 42% materials and 18% labour.
i think that this is why i am also paying so much attention, if you remember, to resource efficiency because i firmly believe this is one of the ways of not only addressing environmental concerns, but also of addressing issues connected to the competitiveness of europe.
if we look at the trends in prices for resources, not just energy resources, but also energy resources, since the beginning of this century, we see that these prices have begun to go up fast and the expectation is that this will continue.
so i think we should really focus and prepare regarding the questions of how we can improve resource productivity, resource efficiency and how we can also improve energy efficiency.
the third issue i would like to mention from the competitiveness angle is that we can, of course, also learn the lesson that not respecting safety, human health and environmental health considerations can also be very costly for companies.
clear, predictable, safe conditions under which exploitation could be possible, proper management of risks connected with human health and protection of the environment.
but we should not forget that shale gas is a fossil fuel and in that context we should not forget either that we are supporting the development of renewable energy with good reason, and we should continue doing that, as günther oettinger also mentioned.
we cooperated very well – including mr bütikofer – and i think we came up with a good compromise text, even if it does come from the committee on industry, research and energy.
the focus should be – and it is – on industry and energy.
we have to compromise and see what the best alternative is that we have for meeting our targets for clean energy in europe.
we still have a long way to go and we still have to analyse all the impacts this will have, not only on the environment, but also on the competitiveness of the european economy.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on steel in the eu by amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000184/2012 - b7-0368/2012)
vice-president of the commission.
but i have taken note of the concerns expressed, although we must do something - i believe it is possible - to reconcile environmental policy and industrial policy.
the new framework programmes and horizon 2020 will offer new opportunities to finance research and development and to move towards more efficient production in terms of resources and energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market.
the free movement of persons, the internal market, fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and environmental issues were the main areas of focus of the committee's work.
i voted in favour of mrs javella's report because i believe it is a balanced report which sets out policy on the future of shale gas in the union and at the same time gives due attention to the environmental dimension of the issue.
shale gas, as a new form of energy at a critical time for the european economy, can be a source of growth and a breath of fresh air for european industries in dealing with the extremely high energy costs and energy dependence of the european union.
the main focus of the committee on petitions’ work during 2011 has been on the environment and fundamental rights/justice.
may it be a main and important contributor for climate action across the world.
our missions are effective and their results are sustainable only if they are part of a comprehensive approach.
they need to enhance collective knowledge of climate-related security challenges, as set out in the report by mr tarand.
indeed, it is necessary to pursue efforts at eu and member state level, as well as in dialogue with external partners and civil society to identify climate security needs and to further strengthen our understanding of interlinkages between climate change development, environmental degradation, natural resources, migration or conflict.
the european union and member states are leading international efforts to enhance climate security by initiating policy dialogue, including at the un security council level and in its bilateral relations and by supporting concrete initiatives in the fields of climate risk management and adaptation.
one example is the global climate change alliance, which has a strong focus on climate adaptation in the most climate vulnerable regions of the world.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the next item is the commission statement on the proposed directive on data protection - personal data processed in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the future of fisheries in europe lies in coastal fishing activities which are sustainable, have a low impact on the marine environment and are a driver of growth and jobs in europe.
according to the court's report, the combined error rate for regional policy in transport, energy, employment and social affairs decreased significantly compared to 2010 from 7,7% to 5,1%.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the doha climate change conference because it recognises that climate change is an urgent and irreversible threat to human societies and the planet, it proposes a legally binding global agreement based on the principle of 'shared but differentiated responsibilities' and it recognises that the scientific evidence leaves little room for delay.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the doha conference, however, must not refer the matter to the next international conference as is the custom, it must record commitments with a specific timetable for reducing emissions and not be limited to vague policies on the need to reduce them.
the clauses promote eu military and political interventions in member states under the pretext of 'terrorism', 'natural or man-made disasters', 'cyber attacks' or even 'pandemics' or 'energy shortages'.
mr president, failure was avoided in doha but it is nevertheless true that, while climate negotiations are progressing, the speed of progress is not such as to allow us to hope for a climate agreement by 2015. we have no time to lose and, as the world bank report has told us, a 4°c warmer world is not only a threatening prospect, but is closing in on us very fast.
the european parliament has to push more actively for progress in negotiations, not only with a resolution before next december’s climate change conference – cop 19 – in poland but in the intermediate meetings taking place in bonn and elsewhere.
i call also on european citizens to speak up for climate action and progress in negotiations.
we have voted unanimously in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety that we must preserve the effectiveness of the antibiotics we have because it is difficult to develop new ones.
it will make it even more difficult for workers to access products and services in critical sectors such as health, medicine, energy, food, etc., which will be subject to even greater capitalist speculation.
the european maritime safety agency was launched immediately after the polluting sinking of the oil tanker erika, with the aim of ensuring safety and protection of the sea and preventing marine pollution.
the successful operation of the agency to date suggests that its remit should be extended to include the prevention and response to environmental disasters such as oil spills.
with this report, which i supported, the european parliament is putting forward proposals to overcome the obstacles to the establishment of a single patent protection regime in the eu by giving a boost to a globalised environment and more opportunities to european innovative ideas and patents.
however, their unwise and excessive use in medicine and veterinary medicine has led to numerous negative consequences, such as the colonization of hospital environments with antibiotic-resistant microbes and thus an increase in hospital infections, the detection of antibiotic residues in food, and soil and water pollution.
in the anti-people policy of the european union and governments, workers are proposing their own solution for modern, cheap air transport for the people, with full rights for workers in the industry and environmental protection.
if we are talking about these brilliant minds, which are being identified and absorbed by the financial sector before they have even had time to graduate from universities, these brilliant minds, dear colleagues, we must try by all means to keep them in the service of the real economy, of innovation, because only in this way will we ensure europe's competitiveness in today's globalised environment.
unfortunately – and i say this very clearly to mr moraes – we take a lot of very important new initiatives in this house, but until citizens understand that we have done that, we need a lot of time and a lot of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
mr president, in his excellent report mr swoboda, referring to energy, points out that the european union must deal with the outstanding issues with russia, issues related to energy supplies to the member states of the european union.
the european union's energy commissioner was not present at the inauguration.
it will be indirect pressure on russia to implement at least part of the third energy package.
these statements were made after the committee adopted the resolution and created tension and undermined the climate and good neighbourly relations in the region.
a regional protection programme is, as you know, a specific tool of long-term capacity building in the area of international protection that aims at institution-building as well as supporting sustainable solutions for refugees.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the issue of growth is certainly not the subject of the european council, but we must not forget that growth is the great patient, it is at the foundation of our efforts to make our political and economic plan sustainable, and at the same time growth is the lever that the european union can use to restore the economy, to rebuild society, which is suffering, losing faith in the european union, particularly in countries suffering the heavy consequences of recession and austerity, such as my country, greece, where the younger generation is losing faith in tomorrow.
i fully agree with what you are suggesting, that smes must be given the right climate by both european and national policies.