i'd like to address the presidency's energy policy agenda.
i was pleased to note that, in addition to short-term crisis management measures, the development of a green economy and the completion of the single energy market remained among the main objectives.
one of the most important reports of the semester is the energy efficiency directive.
we therefore need to take concrete steps now to achieve the 20% energy efficiency target.
more responsible economic policies, preserving economic stability, boosting growth, increasing employment, making more efficient use of renewable energy, examining refugee policy issues and so on are all topical, pressing issues of our time.
let me also say a few words about my own field of expertise, which includes industry, research and energy issues.
i have to agree with the position that we need to work towards a better functioning internal energy policy, which increases competition between service companies and thus reduces their prices to consumers.
the cancún climate conference proposed a solution whereby central and eastern european member states could take a limited amount of their unused emission allowances in return for supporting the european union's 30% emission reduction commitment.
on the one hand, the european union as a whole must strive to take the lead in the fight against climate change, even in times of economic crisis.
with appropriate regulation, we can encourage european companies to innovate in the areas of energy efficiency, renewable energy, water and resource efficiency.
in the future, these energy and resource-efficient technologies will form the basis of european competitiveness.
without innovation there is no competitiveness, without a competitive economy there is no employment, without jobs there is no sustainability of the european social model.
by selling their climate assets, they can replace the resources needed to shift the economic model towards sustainability.
for hungary, this climate asset is estimated at around eur 900-1000 million, which would be a huge help in generating revenue for the green economy in hungary.
we are all aware of the fact that the increasing quantity of electronic waste we generate each year is posing numerous challenges for the union.
the unskilled collection and treatment of waste not only has serious health and environmental consequences, but also leads to the irresponsible waste of valuable raw materials in europe in the face of increasingly intense global competition for resources.
the current revision of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive provides a framework to address these challenges.
the most important element of the current agreement is therefore that in the future, depending on the choice of the member state, the quantity of products placed on the market or the amount of waste actually generated may also form the basis for calculating the collection targets.
as a member of the itre committee, i would like to ask you a question: specifically about the energy embargo imposed by the european union on iran, which i believe is a clear political decision.
when you made this decision, did you give any thought to the serious consequences this could have for the security of energy supply in europe?
i ask this in light of the fact that, to my knowledge, the iranian state has allowed the iaea's board of inquiry to visit its territory, and at this time, no evidence has been found or any evidence that iran is actually developing nuclear energy for war purposes.
if this gigantic project is realized, the reservoir at verespatak, 40 times larger than the zagytar reservoir in grand bahia, will be a veritable ecological atom bomb.
some challenges and problems, although of varying probability, are predictable: recovery from the crisis, the consequences of global competition and the difficulties in managing sustainable development.
however, it is also clear that, since the existence of competition policy, it has always been able to cope with a major transformation of its environment, against the background of the stable framework of the treaty.
the agreement also runs counter to the interests of european farmers, who must comply with increasingly stringent eu environmental and food safety rules, while imports from morocco are not subject to these rules.
we need to find new sources of energy that will increase consumption, stimulate micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and thus create new jobs.
it is very important that the sector of employment and social affairs is not overshadowed by the focus on fiscal consolidation, and that the headline target of increasing employment is kept on the agenda and further promoted by investing in sustainable job creation.
the availability of jobs, the rate of unemployment, the quality of public services and other environmental conditions must therefore be taken into account.
in addition to addressing the challenges arising from the current economic crisis, it is therefore essential to step up our joint efforts to ensure sustainable and employment-enhancing growth.
i agree that to maintain the western bass king stock at the right level, there must be a balance between sustainable exploitation of the population and the highest long-term yield.
this ecosystem-based approach contributes to the establishment of protected and sustainable fisheries by strengthening the responsibility of those concerned.
it thus also fulfils an environmental protection function, which can also reduce the effects of negative changes due to climate change.
these and other provisions can help to create a much more favourable investment climate.
− i supported the resolution on the future of global environmental and security surveillance (gmes) as i believe it is important to maintain an already established eu-wide earth observation system.
by comprehensively examining the global environmental and security situation in five areas - land, sea, air, emergency response and security - gmes helps europe to respond in advance to any adverse environmental and security policy changes.
the reason is that the funding framework is only provided until 2013, after which time not only the material and intellectual energy invested in the system would be wasted, but also our common aspiration to develop a branch of european space research.
if the successfully established economic policy system is operated irresponsibly, with unnecessary differences between member states and with constant tension, the credibility of the whole european institutional system and the sustainability of the common economic management system are at stake.
i supported the report because its adoption will significantly simplify the handling of cross-border succession cases, giving citizens a secure, predictable basis for the settlement of their legacies, saving them a significant amount of time, energy and money.
i believe that we need to provide significant resources for smes, to provide the right environment to help start-ups.
there are significant structural problems with regard to the sustainability and transparency of action plans, the coordination among stakeholders at state and entity level, the allocation of funds and the monitoring of projects, in brief: despite the promising beginnings, the decade initiative ran out of momentum.
european agriculture has a significant contribution to make to reducing the eu's carbon emissions, while creating new jobs, especially in rural areas.
farmers can contribute to climate objectives by producing renewable energy, in particular biogas, while supplementing their income.
the use of agricultural products for energy purposes must be such as not to endanger food security or cause food price increases.
union policies need to be coordinated to increase energy efficiency and reduce emissions.
therefore, only energy-efficient investments, in particular those aimed at the use of renewable energy, should be eligible for support from the rural development and other community financial funds in the future.
one of the biggest problems farmers face is rising energy prices.
increasing energy efficiency and the energy use of agricultural and forestry by-products could reduce their dependence on fossil fuels.
this would not only help european farmers to meet climate protection objectives, but also significantly improve their competitiveness.
this is partly due to human intervention, and partly due to climate change.
in the current economic climate and in order to implement the europe 2020 strategy, the european investment bank is given a special role in the life of the union.
through job creation, sustainable development, innovation, etc.
it reaffirms that directors of institutions have to take account of sustainability and long-term interests when taking decisions, in order to minimise risks.
mr president, being a member of the industry committee, i would like to make it clear that there is a life in this region beyond the energy project, and building democracy there is as important as any economic relations with the region.
− in the european union, the outermost regions are a special autonomous group which should be given greater attention, not only because of their remoteness, but also because their integration into their own geographical environment should be in the common interest of the european community as a whole.
however, i believe that the flexibility of cohesion policy instruments should be increased to enable the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy to be achieved, even in specific geographical and demographic circumstances, and that cohesion policy should aim at creating a sustainable, inclusive growth-oriented, territorial cohesion-based economy.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products.
our decisions on energy taxation today will seriously determine europe's competitiveness for decades to come.
fundamental issues such as energy taxation must be addressed from all angles, including environmental, energy, industrial and even social policy.
a tax structure that promotes energy efficiency and low carbon emissions can not only strengthen the union budget but also help to finance the green energy development and research projects of the member states in the future.
the same amount could also be used to support the efforts to make european nuclear energy safer.
in addition, the integrated tax system can help in such endeavours as educating energy users, measuring and improving the efficiency of green energy and the necessary alternative energy sources, and not least supporting green small businesses.
as a socialist representative, my priority is to ensure that the people of europe have access to affordable and safe energy.
while we need sustainable development, renewable energy, efficient energy taxation and adequate energy security, we cannot forget the burden on the population for a moment.
− i voted in favour of the report because it concerns a thorough review of the eu's rules on the taxation of energy products and encourages the use of renewable energy sources and lower co2 emissions, while addressing the imbalances that currently exist.
the europe 2020 strategy and our energy and climate objectives require fair and transparent energy taxation to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels.
this proposal provides a strong carbon price signal for businesses and consumers, and also provides an opportunity to shift the tax burden from labour to consumption, thereby favouring growth-friendly taxation.
it would be good if we in this house could finally calculate what the actual environmental footprint of an agricultural product is, because it is not certain that if in hungary, where it is cold, a greenhouse uses a lot of energy, that the ecological footprint of vegetable production will be smaller than if it is imported from another continent, where i even include the transport costs.
and selling locally is good for the environment, because the goods don't travel hundreds, sometimes thousands of miles.
this will reduce co2 emissions from the transport of agricultural products.
in my opinion, it is considered to be a food that is produced entirely locally, to which no artificial preservatives are added, and which reaches the consumer in the same environment with its original natural characteristics.
we need to know that any further hesitation will lead to cost increases, and this is important not only for the current financial years 2012 and 2013, but also for the financial period 2014-2020. it is therefore very important that the member states of europe provide a strengthened political support for this project, because it is very, very important to know that the huge social groups that are entering as energy consumers, due to global trends, energy hunger, demographic change and globalisation, are more present today than ever before.
and finally, allow me to welcome fusion energy, which was dreamed up by a hungarian scientist, a hungarian nobel prize winner, teller ede, as a hungarian.
i think that we rarely find a project that we as hungarians, as europeans, can support for such a long time, dreaming in a global environment.
so i'm telling you, not only financially, not only in terms of energy production, but also politically, we need to continue this project.
we have just started to discuss in parliament the energy roadmap 2050, which is actually not 27 years away like the iter from 1985 but 37 years in the future.
i wonder if the green group will not support the energy roadmap 2050 because it is just too far away?
the first item on the agenda is the report by ms nicole kiil-nielsen, drawn up on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, on the proposal for a directive on women and climate change (2011/2197 (ini)) (a7-0049/2012).
pollinators play a key role in the conservation of biodiversity, primarily wild and domesticated bees, which are responsible for pollinating 80% of european flowering plant species.
the lack of veterinary medicinal products, the overuse of certain pesticides and their active substances, in particular neonicotinoids, certain intensive farming methods and the adverse effects of climate change all play a role.
bee health is in the interest of european farmers and environmentalists, and serves the interests of both the food industry and the environment.
we can't waste half our resources on cases that account for about half a percent of the budget.
− following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget.
the final report highlights that the main problem with the european environment agency is that several procurement procedural errors occurred in the management of the agency in 2010. the report draws attention to the fact that the agency has recently discovered several conflicts of interest, and the panel did not recommend granting a discharge until these conflicts were resolved.
the court of auditors in its report for the financial year 2010 pointed out that the agency's statute was still not in conformity with article 54 of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community.
the final report welcomes the adoption of a comprehensive strategic internal audit plan for the period 2010-2012; however, the rapporteur misses the fact that certain key processes such as ex-ante examination of cost claims and ex-post audits were only planned to start in 2011. the final audit report concluded that the financial and compliance reviews of the aeronautical and environmental projects did not reveal any serious deficiencies.
− following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union for the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter in the context of the closure procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget.
european countries need to focus on investments for long-term growth, such as modernising infrastructure and energy networks, research and development, eradicating extreme poverty and improving education.
but in addition to the legal environment, it is very important to have effective non-discrimination, to create an accepting social environment that respects diversity.
on the one hand, hungary could be proud to have the eighth most favourable legislative environment against discrimination in the union.
the council should adopt a horizontal anti-discrimination directive and member states should do much to create an inclusive environment through training, awareness and closer dialogue with civil society organisations.
i would like to focus on water and waste management as a resource efficiency issue.
in waste management, i agree with those who want to ban the dumping of recyclable waste altogether.
it is unfortunate that my country, hungary, is facing european ambitions in waste management.
the right-wing government has completely abolished the existing waste management system, and the commission has unfortunately opened an infringement procedure.
in many cases, the competitive advantage is caused by supporting energy prices, which encourage higher co2 emissions.
meanwhile, the eu is imposing significant additional costs on companies to meet climate objectives.
in a rapidly changing world, in a rapidly changing europe, energy needs to be provided to the eu population and businesses in the long term.
it is a global challenge to ensure that energy does not lead to tension or conflict between countries in the world.
the following points are worth considering: although our current energy connections are mainly in the east and south, in the future all regions of the world will be connected to energy markets.
interconnected energy networks will increase the eu's competitiveness, but only if we create an institutional structure that prevents member states from being used against each other.
in the energy sector, investment and the speed of investment generation are of particular importance and should be optimised in decision-making.
we propose that the european union commissioner for energy be given a larger and clearer mandate than the current one in negotiating certain issues in joint energy projects.
in the energy market, we're not just talking about raw material dependence, we're talking about technology dependence.
the latter is particularly important in respect of environmental, safety and employment rules, because we see that sometimes european union companies are put at an unfair disadvantage vis-à-vis external actors if we fail to achieve a similar level of restraint.
we strongly support the commission's proposal, put forward by the commissioner for energy, and we would like to develop this further in our own work.
i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the active and effective debate, the many conversations, which we hope will ultimately lead to a greater energy input from the european union.
as the union's external energy dependence is expected to increase, i support the idea that the eu regulatory framework for energy cooperation with third countries should be strengthened.
while eu member states negotiate with the major energy suppliers one by one, our strategic partners will pursue energy sharing diplomacy.
i believe that the union's ability to act as a lobbyist could be developed in the future by concentrating on three areas: first, the differences between national energy markets should be reduced.
the single energy market is a guarantee that member states' interests are properly addressed and that a common position is reached in the field of energy.
international negotiations should aim to ensure that the energy supply of the union and its member states is provided by several energy exporters at the same time.
after paragraph 19 as it stands at the moment, we should add the following: ‘supports the use of instruments such as the early warning mechanism in relations with energy suppliers and transit countries; is convinced that further promotion of the idea of common purchasing of energy raw materials by member states is needed in the context of growing competition for resources and existing producer monopolies’.
it is only the private sector which can create sustainable jobs leading to increased output and tax revenues.
the government can only facilitate this process by creating a business-friendly environment and investing in physical and human infrastructure.
we won't be able to exit this crisis and restore sustainable growth and employment without an ambitious budget that gives europe the means to achieve the targets set in the 2020 strategy.
it should also guarantee fairness in distributing the resources and sustainability.
i strongly believe that fairness and sustainability of budgetary programming may only be achieved by means of introducing gender budgeting in the eu budget procedure.
iliana ivanova was a municipal representative of sofia between 2007 and 2009, a member of the committee on budget and finance and the committee on european resources and environmental protection, previously worked in the united states, before which she was responsible for coordination with international financial institutions as a staff member of the bulgarian ministry of agriculture and food between 1999 and 2002. the ep's committee on budgetary control held a hearing on 4 june with iliana ivanova, following which a large majority of committee members voted in favour of the bulgarian candidate.
in the context of its new scope and methodology, the bank should be encouraged to exercise appropriate controls to ensure that, in addition to supporting the private sector, its activities contribute to social justice, sustainable development, poverty eradication, the full protection of human rights and the implementation of international environmental legislation, in line with community policies and the millennium development goals.
it has also been established that compensation for damage caused by an accident is only guaranteed if the operator has full environmental insurance.
the landfill of industrial and mining waste cannot be considered a final solution.
landfills should be minimised and recycling of the resulting waste should be pursued.
the european union should therefore support research aimed at making the recycling of industrial and mining waste, including red mud, more efficient and economical
in writing.
company law has played a fundamental role in the construction of the single market, but it needs to be further examined to see whether the existing regulatory framework continues to meet the needs of 21st century society and the changing economic environment.
the overall objective is to enable european businesses to compete more effectively and succeed in a highly competitive global environment.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 3 july 2012.
the next item is the report by mr richard seeber, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of eu legislation on water (a7-0192/2012).
the excellent report by mr seeber shows that the european union is much more advanced in energy efficiency than in water conservation, and i suggest to mr potočnik that if buildings have an energy certificate, we should also introduce a water management certificate, because there is a lot of waste.
the closing declaration of the recently concluded un rio+20 conference gave particular urgency to the 'blueprint process' in the union by identifying the issue of providing safe drinking water as one of the main areas of action for sustainable development in the future.
to coordinate economic, social and environmental policies in a water-related manner.
to see how much of this is true today, take a look at spain, where some of the wetlands have already undergone irreversible ecological processes.
while the old member states had 13 years, the new member states had only 8 years and a number of environmental investments had to be made in the poultry sector before and after accession.
these are contrary to the interests of farmers, as they cause additional costs and energy consumption, thus further reducing the competitive disadvantage of european producers vis-à-vis imports, and are also detrimental to consumers, as they lead to higher food prices.
the un conference on sustainable development was expected by many - including the members of the european parliament - to be far more than the scale of the problem to be solved.
speaking at the rio+20 conference, mr president of the republic áder jános, who represented hungary and was my predecessor here in the european parliament, said that sustainable development is about us and our children, about our lives and our future prospects.
the european union has long recognised the strategic importance of water and is at the forefront of the path towards sustainable water management.
mr president, when assessing the outcome of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development, there is not much place for optimism.
it is more than clear that the austerity measures implied by the current economic crisis are being matched by a recession in human rights and ambitious environmental policies.
the rio+20 summit has been highlighted by the various manifestations of the situation worldwide, including growing social discontent and global climate change.
it includes short-term plans at the national level, but it does not take into account the limits of the planet's sustainability.
although the document is a political resolution on sustainability, it is dominated by the paradigm of economic growth.
however, the role of global and international decision-making is vital to bring about the necessary change and to develop appropriate responses to the growing economic, social and environmental challenges.
− i supported the report because the proposed instrument offers an opportunity to mobilise important investment instruments for transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure projects, which are needed for growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation.
overall, the rapporteur has succeeded in developing a proposal that can also support europe's competitiveness, innovation and sustainable development.
that the previous socialist-liberal government helped renovate 280 thousand panel houses in four years, mostly from eu funds, from the hungarian state-self-government part, and citizens had to contribute only 25-30% to improve the energy efficiency of panel houses.
and this shows, this is a concrete example, that energy efficiency is the best way to go.
i ask mr oettinger and the house to allocate resources for this purpose between 2014 and 2020 to improve energy efficiency .
among the eu's 20-20-20 targets, the energy efficiency target is currently the most lagging behind.
europe recognised its backwardness and realised that, in the midst of the economic crisis, it could not afford the luxury of neglecting energy efficiency.
these investments not only reduce our energy bills, but they immediately boost our economy.
however, our energy efficiency targets in the directive will remain noisy targets until the funding issues are resolved.
the proposal allows the state to sell excess allowances from non-industrial emitters and use the proceeds to achieve energy efficiency objectives.
the hungarian proposal provides for the possibility of using the proceeds from the sale of allowances to replace the own contribution to energy efficiency programmes.
thus, despite the economic crisis, a large number of investments can be made that achieve spectacular energy savings.
i believe that it is of the utmost importance for the future of europe that we make significant progress on energy efficiency in the period up to 2020. in times of crisis such as the present, the promotion of energy efficiency is of key interest to europe, as billions of euros could be saved on energy imports by reducing external energy dependence, not to mention increasing energy security, which has always been a priority for the sector.
this agreement commits member states to renew 3% of central government buildings annually, in addition to the 20% efficiency target by 2020, and sets a minimum annual energy savings of 1,5% for the union in energy savings bills.
the advantage of the agreement is that it addresses the issue of energy efficiency in several ways, so that its impact can be felt in both the public and private sectors.
in my view, if we can make real progress on energy efficiency in the near future, europe's recovery from the crisis can be significantly accelerated.
as mrs comi has pointed out, the new european model must promote european innovation and sustainable development, which i fully agree with.
it also contributes to the protection of the health and safety of european consumers and to the protection of the environment.
− while emissions from land-based sources, such as industrial emissions and those from road transport, have been successfully reduced, the increasing pollution from maritime transport cannot be left out of eu regulation.
however, i also voted in favour of the report because it creates a level playing field by applying uniform air quality standards in the union for both land and sea pollution.
it states as a principle that donations should be voluntary and be made on a non-profit basis in a transparent environment.
− in the european union, there are 14.6 million jobs directly or indirectly linked to the protection of biodiversity and the restoration of natural resources and forests.
in renewable energy) and higher incomes, and will be able to legally work.
in industrialized countries, only 8 to 12 percent of the workforce is employed in the 10 to 15 industries that account for 70 to 80 percent of carbon emissions.
− eco-industry and environment-related industries – a significant and quickly growing portion of the eu economy currently representing 2.1% of eu gdp – offer an important and continuously expanding opportunity to enhance labour market participation, both in high-skill and low-skill sectors.
eco-industries and related services – including air pollution control, waste water management, solid waste management, soil remediation, renewable energies, and recycling – sustain 3.5 million full-time jobs at present and around 75%.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
most eu member states secure their long-term energy supply through intergovernmental agreements with third countries.
but when it comes to energy supply negotiations, the eu of 500 million people is not the world's largest gas market.
most member states are heavyweight energy exporters.
ladies and gentlemen, sharing energy supply information at community level is a prerequisite for becoming a heavyweight.
knowledge of intergovernmental agreements can help to develop a coordinated negotiating strategy to provide member states with better access to energy.
our energy security and the lower price are guaranteed by closer cooperation and joint action between member states.
in this way, the model envisaged by the directive would certainly be able to compete effectively with the us company in the short and medium term, but in the long term it would again be pushed into the background by the failure to develop a regulatory environment that would allow creative uses in the digital environment.
as pointed out in this report, the modified legislative environment introduced by the treaty of lisbon needs to be better reflected in european legislation, as provided for in the smart regulation agenda.
the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making adopted in 2003 should be adapted as soon as possible to the new legislative environment created by the treaty of lisbon, in particular as regards the tables of conformity and the demarcation line between delegated and implementing acts.
it is also a peripheral region of the union, which, if removed, could link the atlantic regions to europe, transport, energy and information networks, regional development and the strengthening of land-sea links.
− the european parliament today took an important step towards strengthening the position of eu member states vis-à-vis large energy exporters and reducing their vulnerability.
the document adopted today in plenary calls for member states to share more information on intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy supply in the future.
the exchange of information facilitates the coordination of action by eu governments vis-à-vis the major energy exporters, thereby allowing member states to access energy on better terms.
most eu member states ensure their long-term energy supply through intergovernmental agreements with third countries.
but when it comes to energy supply negotiations, the european union of 500 million people is not the world's largest energy market.
the security of energy supply and the lower price of energy in the union are guaranteed by closer cooperation and joint action between member states.
knowledge of existing intergovernmental agreements and coordination of negotiation strategies will strengthen the position of member states vis-à-vis the major energy exporters, allowing them to obtain energy at better prices.
strengthening the negotiating position of the member states is also an issue for hungary, as our long-term gas contract expires in 2015. it is crucial for the security of our energy supply and the competitiveness of our industry that we succeed in extending the gas contract on favorable terms.
− a more efficient exchange of information between member states is important for eu countries to negotiate more successfully with major energy exporters.
knowledge of existing intergovernmental agreements helps to coordinate the actions of eu governments, so that member states can access energy on better terms.
the early strengthening of the member states' negotiating position is crucial for the union's energy supply and competitiveness, and i therefore voted in favour of approving the agreement between the ep and the council and setting up the legislative framework immediately.
let's not forget that this restructuring and the new programme will have a 419 billion euro impact on the european union's gdp, create 328 000 new jobs and, in addition, reduce co2 emissions by 50 million tonnes.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products.
it is of great importance to the friends of cohesion policy, including hungary, that the interim report confirms that eu cohesion policy is a strategic instrument for investment, sustainable growth and competitiveness, and a key pillar of european solidarity.
the european parliament insists that this area be supported by a stable, solid and sustainable financial framework and that funding be maintained at least at the level of the 2007-2013 period.
− the finalisation of the single european sky legislation would allow europe's airspace to be used in the most efficient way possible, both for the economy, for growth and job creation and for the protection of the environment.
− following the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2010, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control carried out a financial audit of the general budget of the european union concerning the european environment agency in the context of the closure of accounts procedure for 2010. the committee's primary task is to ensure and monitor the proper and efficient implementation of the community budget.
the final report highlights that the main problem with the european environment agency is that several procurement procedural errors occurred in the management of the agency in 2010. the report draws attention to the fact that the agency has recently discovered several conflicts of interest.
i believe that the report presented by the rapporteur, mr goerens, is innovative in many respects and contributes to the fundamental objective of eu development policy to eradicate poverty in a sustainable way.
the report also highlights the need to strengthen entrepreneurship and private sector development in developing countries, and the importance of creating a good business environment for smes and micro-enterprises and their access to credit.
further strengthening the competitiveness of smes requires economic restructuring, enhancing industrial innovation, resource efficiency and creating a business environment that enables european smes to compete globally.
a well-functioning single market creates a competitive environment in which smes are still at a significant competitive disadvantage, in large part because they lack sufficient information about business opportunities and in part because a lack of language skills is a major obstacle.
as the itre expert committee responsible for the opinion, allow me to briefly highlight the concerns of citizens in the energy and telecommunications sectors and to suggest solutions to improve the situation of smes.
in the energy sector, consumer dissatisfaction is mainly due to the complexity of energy bills and the lack of answers to why energy prices have recently risen.
the regulation is also very permissive in several member states, so that energy suppliers are not obliged to provide consumers with adequate information.
we have connected transport networks, and now we must also connect energy and telecommunications networks, to finally connect 500 million europeans.
given the recent difficulties experienced by smes in accessing finance and assuming that difficulties will reappear in times of market stress i certainly consider it timely to establish sme emissions trading platforms.
indeed, interconnected markets can bring countless benefits to the region concerned: they can result in more efficient operations, they can provide opportunities for greater competitiveness and they can create sustainable jobs.
the kyoto protocol, established in 1997 under the un framework convention on climate change, expires in 2012, so in doha, member states are making another attempt to extend these commitments for eight years, until 2020. although individual member states, including hungary, have made individual commitments, the european union is regarded as a single state under the so-called 'bubble principle'.
while these cee countries would need the resources they could attract and would otherwise use them for new environmental and emission reduction investments.
− i voted in favour of the report because the amendments help to prevent money market speculation in commodities, which often leads to significant increases in the prices of food and energy.
recent events and future developments suggest that there will be more problems in this area in the european union, as the environmental protection agency has already granted a licence to operate a cyanide mine in upper carniola, romania, albeit on a smaller scale, and a mine in kremnica, slovakia, is also being prepared to reopen.
i believe that the weaknesses behind the minor problems so far have been mainly regulatory in nature, or that there were directives, regulators, standards, regulations, such as the environmental standard, which was born in 2006. the european commission has therefore proposed further progress towards the gradual introduction of new euro rates over the next decade.
mr president, economic and monetary union cannot be viable and sustainable without two indispensable ingredients: fiscal discipline and democratic legitimacy.
this new regulation should therefore not only create a more predictable regulatory environment but hopefully also restore the financial market confidence as well as the distorted financing relationship between banks and sovereign debt.
this ranges from education, research and innovation to the promotion of sustainable production.
− beside the short term objective of re-establishing the stability and sustainability of european public finances, consolidation measures need to be matched with a definite focus on social investment and employment policy.
targeted social investments are needed on the one hand to help families and individuals adapt to the changing economic environment, and on the other hand to contribute to the creation of sustainable jobs and supporting all european citizens that are excluded from the labour market – with special regard to the young and the long term unemployed – in returning to work.
i am convinced that, in order to ensure a high level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection and to complete the internal market for agricultural and forestry vehicles, it is appropriate to introduce an eu type-approval procedure for all vehicle categories, while taking due account of cost-benefit considerations, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises.
the creation of the new structure will create a more predictable regulatory environment and, in addition to financial market confidence, will also restore the distorted financing relationship between banks and sovereign debt.
in fact, in the united states, the use of unconventional gas has fundamentally transformed the energy market in recent years.
what can shale gas mean for security of supply, competitiveness and environmental protection?
the new resources will enable europe not only to offset the depletion of traditional gas resources in the north sea, but also to reduce the unilateral energy dependence of some member states.
and finally, we look at the environmental aspect.
on the one hand, as gas is one of the cleanest fuels, the exploitation of alternative gas reserves could be an appropriate transition to a low-carbon energy production.
on the other hand, proper regulation and effective supervision are needed to ensure that companies comply with the highest environmental standards when extracting.
europe cannot afford to be ideologically biased towards any one energy source.
we need both renewable energy, nuclear energy, conventional and non-conventional fossil fuels such as shale gas, and new forms of energy such as those that nobel prize winner george olah has discovered with the methane economy.
china provides half of the world's methane energy.
i myself, as a member of the environmental committee, consider it very important to respect environmental considerations.
i think this is a key issue, but we can't take a step that will close the path of development to shale gas extraction while maximizing environmental protection, so i ask that you make a wise decision on this matter.
as a hungarian representative, i welcome the fact that the european parliament is not initiating a european moratorium on unconventional gas extraction, thus allowing each member state to decide independently in the future on the exploitation of its energy resources.
as with all human activities, shale gas extraction can never be risk-free, and it is therefore important that the existing environmental regulatory framework is fully applied.
it should be borne in mind that shale gas can increase security of supply in certain regions of europe and can also have a positive impact on energy prices by creating new supply on the fossil fuel market.
in view of all this, i would not consider it fortunate if the eu regulation made it difficult or impossible to exploit an energy source that could, under the right conditions, contribute to the energy supply of the union and hungary.
while we talk about a europe that wants to emerge from the crisis and develop, and even demand sustainable structural reforms from the member states, we fail to recognise that neither new ones can be built nor can we catch up with abstract resources.
we must be able to carry these quotas over to next year... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
my dear colleagues, the doha climate summit, which begins next week, is our last chance to get answers to one of humanity's greatest global challenges.
it is particularly important for the central european member states, as my colleague mr banki has said, that the kyoto emissions system should continue to function, because we, the new member states, would lose very substantial sums, including our own country.
in our country, we would really need this money for renewable energy, energy efficiency, the panel housing renovation program, so we would be very interested in this system continuing and getting access to our legitimate money.
international climate negotiations have been widely regarded as a failure, with no binding agreement being reached.
in the commitment period 2013-2020, such a step forward could be the establishment of an international financing structure that provides an adequate basis for joint financing of the fight against climate change.
the establishment of the climate change fund seems a promising initiative, but it is necessary to ensure that the large emitters mobilise their support resources despite the economic crisis.
in addition to international efforts, it is important that the union's climate policy does not place member states that have achieved emissions reductions in excess of those set out in the international agreement at a disadvantage.
it is essential for european economic growth to be launched by enabling surplus countries to sell their allowances, which are important national assets, beyond 2012, so that the proceeds can be used to invest in renewables and energy efficiency.
the following joint debate item is prepared by: report by arnaud danjean, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy) (2012/2138 ((ini)) (a7-0357/2012); report by ioan mircea paşcu, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu's mutual defence and solidarity guarantees: policy and operational dimensions (2012/2223 ((ini)) (a7-0356/2012); report by tunne kelam, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on cybersecurity and defence (2012/2096 (ini)) (a7-0353/2012); report by tarek tarand, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the role of the common security and defence policy in the event of natural disasters and climate change (2012/2095 (ini)) (a7-0349/2012);
in writing.
the eu's role in the context of globalisation has evolved considerably through its efforts to promote the harmonious development of world trade and to encourage fair and sustainable behaviour.
− i did not support the parliament's decision on the doha climate change conference because it does not take into account the interests of hungary and the other east-central european member states.
without a compromise that is acceptable to all, there will be no common position, and this jeopardises the effective pursuit of the eu's interests in international climate negotiations.
− in today's vote, i did not support the parliament's resolution on the doha climate change conference, because it does not take into account the interests of hungary and the other east-central european member states.
the eu's position on climate change is that it is not possible to achieve a common position on climate change without a common approach to the issue.
i would like to point out that, at the initiative of my colleague mr erik bánki, five central and eastern european member states have issued a joint press statement in which they stress their commitment to the position of their countries at the doha climate negotiations.
this is particularly important because the revenue generated can be used to develop new, green and energy-efficient industries.
on this world human rights day, let us all reflect on what we need to change in ourselves and what we can do in our immediate environment to make this world a better, more tolerant, more patient and safer place.
i therefore vote in favour of the eu labelling provisions for office equipment not being binding on local authorities, but extending the scope of the programme to central government bodies in line with the recently adopted energy efficiency directive.
online shoppers can choose from twice as many products as they do in the traditional shopping environment, and up to 16 times more products in the eu.
smes face a wide range of challenges when expanding into markets outside their own country, including a weaker entrepreneurial spirit, lack of funding and information, a wide range of bureaucracies, strict rules and compliance with the energy and resource efficient economy, etc.
in my view, hungary can remain on the path of sustainable economic growth if it relies fundamentally on exports.
i consider it extremely important that this issue should be regulated again, since the last time this regulation was adopted was in 2002. and over the past 10 years, numerous scientific sources have proven that noise pollution is a significant and growing environmental hazard today.
in general, i am not in favour of introducing new animal welfare rules because they undermine the international competitiveness of farmers, since competitors do not have to apply them and in many cases they also lead to higher co2 emissions.
the introduction of the 8-hour shipping limit is exceptional, and i support it because it not only promotes animal welfare, but also helps the european union's economy, and because transporting processed products emits less co2 than transporting them, it is also good for the climate.
i am looking forward to the commission's upcoming evaluation of the first year of implementation of these action plans, in particular its assessment regarding the financial feasibility and sustainability of these strategies and the data regarding the progress achieved in each member state.
mutual trust will improve the investment environment, create new jobs, expand domestic r&d activity and open up a broad supplier base for hungarian smes.
as i indicated in the plenary debate on tuesday, i see the problem identified in the report by artur zasada, a polish mep, as twofold: on the one hand, ground services are not sufficiently efficient due to barriers to entry and expansion, and on the other hand, the quality of ground services is not keeping pace with changing needs in terms of reliability, flexibility, protection, security and environmental protection in general.
− i consider it extremely important that the old legislation on noise protection issues at airports in the union is updated, since it was adopted in 2002 and numerous scientific sources have demonstrated over the last 10 years that noise pollution is a significant and increasing environmental problem.
the proposed regulation provides for this possibility, thus bringing financial, economic, health and environmental benefits.
this is what the people of both the union and russia want, and we must continue to strive for proper energy cooperation in the future.
however, i myself stress the importance of maintaining political dialogue between the ruling majority and the opposition and the need to improve the political climate.
besides the sensitive ethnic situation, the economic and social environment, the role of the neighbourhood countries, and the struggle for the drc’s natural resources are issues that must also be addressed.
the act on the protection of women from domestic violence has proved to be rather inefficient so far, especially as the social environment makes it very difficult for them to report abuses.