paragraph 5 is important in stressing the need for sustainable growth.
global warming is obviously a global problem and needs a global solution.
we have to work in particular towards the target of keeping global warming down to less than 2% and at least an 80% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. in relation to europe, we have to lead by example, particularly in relation to reaching the 2020 targets for renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy savings, and to show, as commissioner hedegaard herself said on 7 november in brussels, that green and growth go together.
this is about fair return for fair work, making a viable living from work that brings added value to the environment, delivers food security and puts food on the table of the european citizens.
this is not sustainable and it needs urgent action.
secondly there are opportunities with energy efficiency and other measures whereby farmers can help themselves, but as mr stevenson pointed out they have to be practical and not by people who are selling products that will not make much difference in the long term.
this means that a decreasing numbers of farmers will have to double food production, while also battling climate change and maintaining food standards.
this is not simply about the food we throw out at home: there is huge waste in this institution, i dare say, in hospitals, in public places and right through the food chain.
if we can reduce food waste we will have a more efficient and more sustainable supply chain, which is vital.
in focusing on producing enough food for people, we must also look at how we use the food we produce and, to that end, we must also focus on food waste.
food waste happens at all points of the food chain – at the level of production, at the point of sale and at the point of consumption.
however, the points at which food waste typically occurs differ depending on the country.
in industrialised countries, most waste is concentrated at the final stages, in distribution and consumption.
the website stopfoodwaste.ie was set up under the national waste prevention programme to educate people about the issue and to promote awareness of measures to prevent food waste.
as more and more electrical and electronic equipment comes onto the market, it is important that it be disposed of properly and also recycled, and particularly important to end some terrible practices such as exporting waste electrical and electronic equipment to third countries.
by abiding by the proposals here, we can help to improve the environment, we can secure secondary raw materials and we can help to improve the health of our citizens.
we also need to take into account the greenhouse gas emissions entailed in producing food that is not going to be used, and then to look at the other side of this question: at proper biowaste management for food that will not be required.
− this issue only increases in importance as environmental waste and the subsequent environmental damage increase.
− waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) accounts for approximately 9-10 million tonnes of waste in the eu per annum, projected to increase to 12-13 million tonnes by 2020. i welcome this substantial improvement on the existing directive, outlining broader scope and increased collection and recycling targets.
− while it is not always desirable on balance to use biocidal products, on foot of environmental concerns, i supported this vote.
this means that decreasing numbers of farmers will have to double food production, while also battling climate change and maintaining food standards.
− a sustainable farm and food sector is vital for eu citizens.
− i completely support calls for 2013 to be declared the european year against food waste.
there are 925 million hungry people in the world, meanwhile europeans waste between 95 kg and 115 kg of food per capita per year, as opposed to between 6 kg and 11 kg in sub-saharan africa.
− food waste occurs across the food supply chain; on farmland, in the processing industry, in distribution companies and in consumers’ homes.
based on data gathered since 1974, it is estimated that food waste around the world has risen by 50 %.
combating food waste should be prioritised on europe’s policy agenda and i support the calls for 2013 to be declared the european year against food waste.
lastly, we should also look at the question of energy supply to europe.
we are far too dependent on russian energy sources – and that needs to change.
exercise converts adrenaline into energy and is a primary creator of endorphins.
for all the many citizens who petition parliament, i am afraid to say that there are many other citizens who have no regard for waste management.
we need to acknowledge that public awareness needs to be increased in relation to how to manage waste, both within the home and at work.
if people were obliged to visit landfills that were not working properly, they might think twice about dumping waste and putting it into refuse sacks.
i know that in county louth, where i come from, there is an old landfill dump that now soaks up a great deal of money because of the environmental problems it poses, and it also causes difficulties for the people who live in the area.
secondly, it is not our remit to prohibit any country from developing nuclear energy if it so wishes.
but of course in iran all the evidence suggests that the intent goes far beyond nuclear energy and has a military dimension.
the commissioner here at the debate this morning pointed out that there could be eur 72 billion made available to the economy, 242 million fewer tonnes of emissions and lots of jobs created if waste was properly managed across the european union.
every member state should take this on board: to eliminate waste firstly – restaurants and households could have far less waste – and then to utilise it properly.
− eurostat figures from 2009 show that eu citizens produce on average 513 kg of municipal waste per person per year; in ireland, the figure was between 700 and 800 kg per person.
by the end of 2009, eu infringement cases related to waste constituted 20% of all environmental infringements.
a resource-efficient europe is one of the flagship targets of the europe 2020 strategy, and the waste framework directive introduced a 50% target for recycling of municipal waste, to be met by 2020 in all member states.
i welcome the commission’s increased support for the directive with resources to improve implementation and enforcement in the eu waste acquis at national level.
in relation to horse mackerel, the management plan for horse mackerel is based on the implementation plan agreed by the commission at the 2002 world summit on sustainable development.
at the summit the commission agreed to maintain or to restore the stock to levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield.
many fishing towns can be quite isolated, and by targeting coastal tourism and aquaculture, the common fisheries policy can make such communities sustainable.
of course then they are hit with bills in a very difficult economic climate for fighting this fraud.
the rapporteur underlines other areas of concern such as child labour in the agricultural sector in morocco, poor wages for workers and environmental issues.
but we also need to combine consolidation and growth measures with green measures: for instance, a tax reform that shifts taxes away from labour towards energy consumption and pollution, thus having the potential to stimulate economic activity while greening the economy.
at the heart of this crisis of confidence lies the potential negative feedback loop between financial sector vulnerabilities, shaky confidence in sovereign debt sustainability, and weak growth prospects.
however, without stronger growth prospects, it will be much more difficult to put public debt on a sustainable path.
firstly i strongly support your call to the european council to integrate, in its policy guidance, messages on the need to increase ambition to achieve the eu2020 objectives and to support sustainable job creation with investment and tax reform.
the focus needs to be simultaneously on measures having short-term effect and on the ones advancing towards the right growth model in the medium term, which is smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i welcome your decision to approve the commission proposal to carry over the guidelines for the member states’ employment policies – being a core element of the european employment strategy – and leave them unchanged for 2012. the present employment guidelines meet their purpose in today’s very difficult economic environment.
in this context it makes sense to find an overall eu solution, and that certainly should include some form of soft landing so that dairy farmers in all eu countries can look to a sustainable future.
i am confident that we will achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion throughout the eu.
− this report cites ‘growth-friendly tax policies in the member states, better tax coordination and where appropriate harmonisation in the eu’ as a means by which sustainable reform can be achieved across eu member states.
due to the unnecessary financial and environmental cost, i supported the amendment calling for a single seat for the european parliament; however i believe that this must occur together with investment in public works in the city of strasbourg to ensure that there is no loss in jobs in the strasbourg region.
owner-managed, not-for-profit institutions have shown high levels of sustainability and resilience during the financial crisis and it is crucial that any regulation for co-operative financial institutions is proportionate and supports their ethos fully.
i would draw the commissioner’s attention to the reaction from farming organisations – remember that they are the practitioners and it is worth listening to what they have to say – who consider that the commission’s proposals are neither feasible nor coherent given the current level of understanding, and that scientific knowledge concerning carbon capture and storage and emissions from soils, and the effects of different management methods on these, is still far from complete.
we have to try and balance that with our concerns about the environment.
− this report endorses the european commission’s roadmap for moving to a competitive low carbon economy in 2050. the eu is responsible now only for 11% of global co2 emissions.
i abstained on part 2 of the vote on paragraph 72 since member states are free to choose their own energy mix.
ireland, though not a nuclear nation, likely derives some of its energy from nuclear sources through the uk/ireland interconnector.
mr president, companies that see themselves as enterprises in the broader sense of the word, beyond the short-term maximisation of values for shareholders, are the ones that generate true value for their employees, their communities, the environment and the eu’s exchequers.
mr president, the irish minister for the environment and local government is re-examining the structure of the local action groups implementing the rural development programme.
secondly, i particularly welcome their role in combating climate change and in putting infrastructure in place, especially interconnectors and super grids, etc.
you talk about sustainable growth, but you want to institutionalise austerity across europe with the ‘austerity treaty’, which will turn the recession into a deep depression.
in that case, how can you talk about sustainable growth?
as mrs swinburne has said, a good balance needs to be struck between the environment on the one hand and consumers and industry on the other.
− europe has to reduce co2 emissions and to provide a lead to the rest of the world when it comes to tackling climate change.
i would urge the commission to look again at this and at possible countervailing measures to ensure that the necessary action to tackle climate change does not disproportionately disadvantage peripheral areas like ireland whose prosperity to a large extent depends on exports.
− this report states that the rate of tax on a given product will combine the tax linked to co2 emissions based on energy content.
from an economic perspective, the less-favoured area scheme is particularly significant, contributing to the support of in excess of 100 000 irish farming families whose ability to farm is restricted by the physical environment and in particular the impact of the prevailing wet, cold climatic conditions in ireland.
ireland has consistently argued for this so that the effect of cool, damp climate conditions on the soil are taken into account.
local food integrates production, processing, distribution and consumption on a small scale, creating sustainable local economies and a strong connection between farm and table.
i see locally-produced food as a matter of social cohesion and environmental sustainability, and it is also quite important in terms of food security.
– i welcome this resolution which is timely given that 2012 is designated un year of sustainable energy for all.
in seeking climate justice it is important to highlight the links between access to clean, affordable, sustainable energy and gender.
in the developing world, in particular, energy is vital for women’s development in terms of reducing their time burden for collecting firewood used in cooking and heating and improving their health and well-being.
access to and control over clean energy sources is central to unleashing the potential of rural women.
the provision of clean cook stoves can mitigate the negative environmental and health impacts while promoting women’s empowerment, as the time that would have been used to collect fuel can be used for other productive and economic activities.
i would urge the commission to take concrete measures to ensure: (1) that more women to take up careers in science and technology; (2) that women are properly represented at high-level climate change talks and decision-making bodies by requiring at least 40% female representation; and (3) that data collection and analysis reflect the gender specific issues in dealing with climate change.
commissioner, could i suggest that there may be a possibility – which has not been thought through in the proposals on greening the cap – for us to develop a market in green entitlements, and that, for example in ecological focus areas, it may be possible to establish some sort of marketplace as a first step towards a price for public goods.
you are aware, however, in relation to the bogs in ireland and that particular problem, how extremely difficult it is when citizens are asked to change their behaviour for the good of the environment.
when we talk about sustainable production and consumption, there is not enough emphasis on what we mean by ‘sustainable’.
if you listen to the debate on jobs and growth, which is so important to so many who are unemployed, the question of sustainability is not part of that discussion.
we need to convince people that the words we say here will actually be reflected in an increase in jobs if we adopt the sustainability model and the resource-efficiency agenda which has already been discussed.
this one-year suspension will enable the eu to continue to exert pressure on the burmese authorities to ensure that the reform process is sustainable and irreversible.
− the eu biodiversity strategy 2020 proposes measures to secure nature and ecosystems for future generations; i support these goals.
we need to ensure that we strike the right balance between environmental/health aspects on the one hand and trade/competitiveness aspects on the other.
i welcome the commitment of an additional eur 175 million through the european development fund (edf) to provide lasting solutions to the root causes of piracy, namely poverty and state failure, and to support development projects for sustainable economic growth.
the eu, member states and businesses need to take the appropriate measures to ensure that consumers have access to understandable and comparable information about fees and means of redress, and can easily switch providers, especially in the telecommunication and energy sectors.
the eur 166 billion worth of extra cuts and taxes demanded by the austerity treaty will undermine any basis for sustainable economic recovery.
(microphone cut off for an instant) …in the eurozone which will lead to a better economic climate conducive to investment.
it is absolutely correct that we should work for a strong and sustainable irish financial sector.
the ftt should also be used to finance global goods, such as development and climate change.
firstly we should try to eliminate the huge amount of waste that takes place from households right across the spectrum.
students are coming through now who have an appreciation of the environment and climate change and are willing to play their part in recycling.
energy, of course, is essential.
while people will have reservations about certain types of energy, particularly coal because it is highly polluting, nevertheless we need to keep an open mind, particularly on shale gas, and also develop bio-energy – wave, wind and tidal, which all have potential that we can develop hugely.
a few weeks ago we had a demonstration in brussels outlining the vast potential offered by the sea in creating all sorts of energy resources in terms already mentioned – wave, tidal and wind – but also in terms of foodstuffs and other areas as well.
mr gerbrandy, in the 1700s your report might perhaps have been summarised in four words as: ‘waste not, want not’.
i think perhaps we would be better off using fewer words as they did in the 1700s and encouraging all of us – as our parents used to – to ‘waste not, want not’.
mr president, this report is an important step towards achieving the millennium development goals and the fulfilment of international commitments to human rights, food security and environmental sustainability.
mr president, the role of technology has increasingly expanded in our everyday lives in all of its aspects, from communication to finance and banking, from transportation to energy, from culture and entertainment to health.
as has been said repeatedly today, the eu is a major importer of energy.
what the rapporteur wants to do is to coordinate importation of energy in order to enhance our trading power and our influence.
european energy policy needs to focus on coordination of energy market rules.
the eu needs to assume its place as a leader in energy, regulation and importation.
the report emphasises better coordination, diversification, energy sustainability and strengthened partnerships with supplier countries.
the report suggests regular coordination among member states, the commission and the council via the strategic group for international energy cooperation.
this will undoubtedly increase our bargaining position in the energy market and introduce and promote competition among suppliers.
the report suggests a sharing of information, using an information-sharing tool, to collect and make available relevant data on energy programmes and projects in third countries.
energy security is absolutely vital to the european project and i welcome the report.
i think the person who is appointed will have plenty of advice available to him or her, and what i want is a person who has a good heart, who is impartial, who has courage, who will show good judgment, who has energy and, above all, who is not politically correct; a person who will pursue the truth.
the connection between natural resource dependence, armed conflict and weak governance is all too evident in sub-saharan africa and what has been occurring in the post-election environment in the democratic republic of congo is a prime example.
it has 60% of the world’s undeveloped arable land, reserves of coal, oil and minerals as well as large amounts of renewable energy resources.
the danish presidency – whom i compliment – mentioned some of the things that we can do immediately, such as the energy directive which, if implemented, would create 400 000 jobs, save energy and help combat climate change.
well, what we have in this agreement basically deals with tariffs, investments, public procurement, services and sustainable development.
− one of the main conclusions of the 2010 national economic and social council (nesc) report ‘re-finding success in europe’ was that europe’s success in achieving its core goals was of ‘critical importance’ to ireland’s sustainable economic and social development.
− i want to see the adoption of an effective, legally-binding international treaty based on the simple principle of outlawing the international transfer of all conventional arms, related equipment, ammunition and training likely to be used for grave violations of international human rights, humanitarian law or that will adversely affect sustainable development.
as the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) on the data protection regulation, i can say that it is going to be a very important part of that.
one very important proposal is the creation of a european investment package to be undertaken by all member states to deliver sustainable jobs.
we now need to make real progress on an investment programme for real, sustainable and quality jobs: a plan which will respect the rights and dignity of workers, promote social justice and fight inequality, in-work poverty and social dumping; a plan which will protect vulnerable workers such as part-time workers, domestic workers and those trapped in the black economy.
the advice and input of stakeholders is invaluable and results in greater compliance and support for sustainable fisheries management.
the loser is the fishing sector and sustainable fisheries.
landing dead fish does not contribute to sustainable fisheries management.
i am saying that there is an opportunity for the european union to produce milk in a sustainable way and to feed into global demand for dairy products.
on the issue of milk production, my point is this: if the european union, and ireland as a member state of the european union, can produce milk competitively – and we supply europe and beyond – we should be allowed to do that in a sustainable way.
in that context it is very important that this morning we voted to back an investment package which is to create sustainable jobs, because i believe this sends a clear message to citizens that we are now seriously attempting to rebalance the current austerity approach with a europe-wide pact for investment and jobs.
the commissioner has said that he intends to deepen cross-compliance in agriculture through the water framework directive, and i wonder how that will be done in a positive way in terms of agriculture and the environment, because sometimes when we legislate we create difficulties for farmers.
pillar 2 of the common agricultural policy has played a particularly big part in that, because pollution from silage run-off and nitrogen run-off, etc.
it is important, therefore, that this question should continue to be an aspect of the new cap negotiations, so that improvement in the environment and particularly in water quality will remain a priority.
we are also looking at the potential of marine energy – which is very important – and the growth of marine tourism, which is a great opportunity for us to get out of the economic crisis and to grow jobs, etc., within the european union.
finally, professional drivers and transport companies operate in a highly fragmented market and a fiercely competitive environment.
mr president, an environmental disaster is waiting to happen in aughanish, county limerick, ireland.
the rusal alumina plant refinery produces alumina powder, in a chemical process which leaves behind toxic waste.
between 20 million and 50 million tonnes of this hazardous waste sit in an area of over 250 acres on the banks of the shannon estuary in a pond which has never been properly lined.
this waste has already become airborne, damaging the health of people in the region and damaging the farmland.
yet we have the biggest septic tank in all of europe sitting there, without proper regard to the massive environmental dangers it poses.
− a sustainable supply of water is vital for life, the effective management of which is essential to ensuring that all ecosystems receive a sufficient quantity of good quality water in order to function properly and provide essential services.
also in relation to the ecological focus areas, again we need to ensure that the percentages are workable and that we have a comprehensive and precise list of what is and what is not included in these areas.
it means a capital tax on those uninvested profits, public investment to create jobs and, crucially, taking the key sections of the economy into democratic public ownership in order to be able to plan a way out of this crisis and redevelop the economies in a sustainable way.
on the one hand you have most of the people here, the more sensible people, who realise in fact that we are the custodians of the current environment and that the next generation will actually indict us unless we do something about the problem.
he is part of a growing minority who say that there is no such thing as climate change; that nothing has changed and that there is no need to take any steps in order to rectify the situation.
if you look at the statistics in the meantime, global emissions have risen by 48%, 300 million hectares of forests have been cleared and the population of the world has increased by 1.6 billion people.
often coastal states charter vessels to exploit fisheries but not in a sustainable way, and of course to expand fishing activities, so many coastal states lack the will and ability to control illegal fishing.
such a move by cites is difficult to comprehend and even more difficult to justify and would certainly threaten the sustainability of fish stocks, particularly on the high seas.
thankfully in energy terms we have interconnectors with our nearest neighbour, the united kingdom, and hopefully also in due course with other areas.
− i voted in favour of the proposal launching a pilot phase for project bonds to support investment in the transport, energy and ict fields through attracting and facilitating private financing of priority projects.
− i voted in favour of this report which outlines an infrastructure, which is of key importance to achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i believe that it is of vital importance to include a gender perspective when debating environmental issues.
female workers are very much under-represented in the growing renewable sector in general and in science and technology in particular.
moreover, women should be equally represented in political decision-making bodies and involved in environmental policy making and the transition to the green economy in order to strengthen equality and democracy.
in developing countries in particular, issues such as access to clean water and dependence on biomass for energy have differing effects on men and women.
these investments should be focused on sustainable transport development.
they should do so in order to enhance living conditions and promote social inclusion, as well as to bring about positive effects on the environment.
we need to ensure cooperation between eu states in order to establish truly sustainable fishing practices which conserve fish stocks and ensure their optimal use.
all imports of fish and fishery products of all species originating from countries allowing non-sustainable fishing practices should be banned and banned immediately.
mr president, i also voted for this report even though i am always very wary when i hear the word ‘conservation’, as we have a tendency to think of the environment without the needs of the fishing community.
furthermore, a mechanism at eu level to compensate fishermen affected by economic or social repercussions as well as by ecosystem protection measures could be established.
the eu’s aquaculture sector, if properly managed on the basis of global sustainability, could, as the motion says, make a greater contribution to the needs of european society in terms of food security and quality, employment, environmental protection and the maintenance of dynamic and varied fishing and coastal communities.
the environment has improved, water quality has improved, biodiversity continues to improve and, of course, the quality of the food produced is constantly improving.
the aim of such a macro-regional strategy and a related action plan is to better coordinate and to create synergies between all eu policies that affect this area, particularly those relating to marine energy, maritime industries, tourism, employment opportunities for young people in the maritime sector, and the sustainable exploitation of maritime resources.
the first is that we need to ensure that there is a favourable environment in which economies in developing countries can grow.
we very much welcome the stronger wording on a fairer distribution of wealth, and particularly welcome the emphasis on sustainable and inclusive growth for all.
it is an encouragement for us to continue doing what we can, both internally in trying to create and keep peace, and abroad in terms of development aid – and particularly as regards helping countries towards peace and sustainability through the development of their economies.
according to the commission, zalco’s income suffered from this severe slowdown in aluminium production between 2008 and 2009, but also from the rise in energy costs between april 2010 and october 2011. as well as the usual package of personalised egf supports, i was pleased to note that zalco will implement measures to stimulate older workers to remain in the labour market.
vestas employed many high-skilled workers and i hope that the egf funding will be used to ensure that their skills sets are successfully reutilised for the continued benefit of denmark’s already-impressive renewable energy sector.
if every sme in the eu added one more staff member to their books, the unemployment crisis would disappear overnight, so it is incumbent on us across all sectors to provide an sme-friendly environment, particularly in relation to cosme, horizon 2020 and access to credit.
mistakes and abuses have abounded in the process, but fortunately, in the eu, discussions on the best means to address serious crime benefit from a calmer and less polarised environment, especially in comparison to the us.
madam president, today i had the honour of witnessing the signature of my report by the president of parliament and the president-in-office of the council, when they formally entered into eu legislation the regulation on certain measures in relation to countries allowing non-sustainable fishing.
children face many dangers in the digital environment, from sexual predators, illegal and unethical advertising to cyber bullying, and indeed there have been two cases recently in ireland of suicides due to cyber bullying.
the digital environment by its nature fosters a culture of anonymity and secrecy.
social enterprises are therefore important drivers of sustainable development, social innovation and inclusion and indeed the participation of marginalised groups.
it is therefore important to create a favourable climate for social enterprises and it is important that we have the political framework and the financial support necessary for social enterprises to both survive in the current crisis and to thrive.
without the maintenance of strong social policies, we will not be able to create sustainable jobs, restore the faith of many citizens in national and european institutions, nor can we pave the way towards greater stability in the future.
− i support the social business initiative as i believe it is highly important to promote and encourage a positive environment for these enterprises, particularly during times of crisis.
– i have listened to this debate and in the interest of fairness perhaps you will pass on my email address to all of those lobbyists from industry who have lobbied you, because i am on the environment committee and i have not received any of that.
i urge people to read the reports, in particular the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which is extremely balanced and takes into account many of the concerns.
let us also recognise that article 194(2) states very clearly that member states are sovereign when it comes to their energy mix and their energy choice.
– the tfeu article 194(2) clearly states that energy policy is a matter for each individual member state.
it is important not to block the ability of member states to make political choices on energy policy as this is a clear area of subsidiarity.
in line with the principle of subsidiarity, member states should be free to decide on their own energy policy.
shale extraction is an issue which i have followed very closely and until we have the results of the environmental impact assessment studies, currently being carried out at national level, i intend to reserve my judgement on this matter.
it is most unfortunate that we must vote on this report before we have the results of the environmental impact assessment studies.
one of the most significant areas is the area of the environment, which represents 20 % of the total of infringement cases, and the environmental impact assessment directive is a case in point.
i had the privilege of making one of those petitions on behalf of my constituents in haulbowline in cork harbour under the waste framework directive.
madam president, the dangers of fracking to the environment and to public health are so serious in my opinion that they cannot be regulated for.
incredibly, the water used for one single well for fracking would supply 10 000 europeans with water for a whole year, and a recent german study states that the global warming footprint of shale gas extracted at a depth of 1 000 metres is 30% larger than for natural gas, and it is twice as large for gas obtained 2 500 metres down.
it is precisely the same big oil and big gas companies that have already made super profits, and that have already endangered our environment, who now tell us that shale gas is safe and that there is no problem.
instead of relying on them, the public sector must become the spearhead of investment into research and development and infrastructure to develop green energy production.
i think we need to take into consideration the views of the commissioner for the environment, who just yesterday evening spoke in this parliament he said that there are gaps in european legislation and he confirmed that the commission will carry out an impact assessment in 2013 – part of which will be a public consultation.
in my own constituency, there are plans to drill exploratory wells for fracking and many people have real concerns about the environment and about human and animal health.
the poor record of fracking in the us gives us every reason to be concerned, and there is no proper framework in place to ensure the protection of the environment and the protection of human and animal health.
it is largely supportive of fracking and sees fracking as a core element of the european energy mix.
just yesterday in this chamber, the commissioner for the environment himself spoke about the risks from fracking and said that they were higher than those from conventional gas exploration.
in my view these gaps include the need for a mining directive, the necessity to expand the remit of the environmental impact assessment directive and gaps in the water framework directive.
shale gas may have postponed the awful day, but our energy mix in the future will not be fossil fuel based.
we need to direct our energies and our resources to sustainable renewable energy sources.
certainly there are concerns, particularly regarding the environmental aspects of shale gas, but i think, of all the speeches i have heard, the one by kay swinburne was probably the most balanced.
the sonik report advocates a cautious eu approach to fracking until informed conclusions can be arrived at on the basis of commission studies assessing the appropriateness of existing eu legislation in this area, the implications for public health, climate change, land-use, and water, and other relevant aspects.
the eu should introduce mandatory environmental impact assessments for explanatory drilling as well as a ban on fracking in sensitive areas such as drinking water protection zones and mining areas.
− the tfeu article 194(2) clearly states that energy policy is a matter for each individual member state.
it is important not to block the ability of member states to make political choices on energy policy, as this is a clear area of subsidiarity.
shale extraction is an issue which i have followed very closely and, until we have the results of the environmental impact assessment studies, currently being carried out at national level, i intend to reserve my judgement on this matter.
i voted to keep an open mind on fracking and to respect the right of individual member states to decide on their own energy policy.
while these extraction methods may lower energy prices across the union by increasing competition, the long-term risks outweigh the short-term economic benefits.
− the tfeu article 194(2) clearly states that energy policy is a matter for each individual member state.
it is important not to block the ability of member states to make political choices on energy policy as this is a clear area of subsidiarity.
in line with the principle of subsidiarity, member states should be free to adopt energy-mix solutions, including shale gas exploration and extraction.
shale extraction is an issue which i have followed very closely and, until we have the results of the environmental impact assessment studies, currently being carried out at national level in ireland, i intend to reserve my judgement on this matter.
i voted to keep an open mind on fracking and to respect the right of individual member states to decide on their own energy policy.
the purpose of imposing these measures or rules on our fishermen is very simple: it is to lay down how and where fishing activity should be carried out and to ensure that it is done in a sustainable manner.
ultimately, these measures are designed to ensure that our fish stocks are exploited in a sustainable way and that the eco-systems in which the fish live are well maintained.
i am pleased that we now have an agreement in place which serves the best interests of our fishermen, coastal communities, sustainable fisheries and the consumer.
the gear type is both eco-friendly and sustainable, and will not target cod in the defined area.
as a result of that, boarfish is a very sustainable and well-managed fishery.
it is not acceptable that the eu’s economic and strategic interests in kazakhstan’s energy resources take priority over the deteriorating human rights situation.
while i understand that progress has been made in developing a road map, i share the concerns of many of the trade union movements which have contacted me – etuc and the irish congress of trade unions, in particular – and indeed many other ngos which are very concerned about the human rights and environmental protection issues.