in its best form, the european union and the euro should have ensured greater prosperity and security for all, in a climate of mutual benefit: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter.
at such a delicate time it is the duty of the member states to defend their prerogatives and particularities, and therefore i do not think that the line taken by this resolution is sustainable, which seems to want to persevere on the road of community strengthening in the name of utopian ideals which in reality have proved to be totally unfulfilled.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the follow-up to the durban climate change conference.
and so, remembering also what mario draghi, the governor of the european central bank, said the other day, right here in this institution, if we want to push in this sector too towards those which are the priorities, which are growth and employment, we must really be practical and focus above all on the technologies of the green economy to really achieve sustainable development and to meet the most important needs of our citizens.
it is much better to have the courage to tax goods coming from the big polluting countries and use that revenue to fight climate change.
as mr florenz has said, when we talk about weee we are talking about dangerous pollutants, dangerous for the environment and for human health, but we are also talking about an extraordinary possibility of recovering raw materials and we also know how much europe needs them: i am thinking of the indian, for example, whose kilogram is worth thousands of euros.
we can say with conviction that when this regulation comes into force it will ensure greater fluidity in the internal procedures of the european single market, thanks to simplified and strengthened authorization procedures at community level, but also, at the same time, greater protection, as many have acknowledged here, of human health and also the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it has not been easy to find a balanced compromise to combine the objective of a high level of protection of human health and the environment with a faster and more efficient authorization system for the industrial sector.
increased levels of price transparency, reduced input costs, more efficient management of energy and natural resources within the supply chain, to name just a few of the most important.
i appreciate your openness, but i ask you to support the idea in the next cap of ensuring that renewable energy production facilities are set up on every farm, to meet the energy needs of the farm itself, to reduce costs and co2 emissions, and to support producers and small farms.
to meet this challenge, the new cap must increase the use of renewable energy by starting a self-sufficient energy production cycle on farms using agricultural waste and also to power biomass and biogas plants.
we will have sustainable agriculture and reduced costs.
these, together with the creation of a european space surveillance and environment system and the strengthening of research activities, are the key elements of an ambitious text which we hope will provide the answers that european citizens expect.
it is in this direction that i, as rapporteur for european space policy, have intended to proceed, in the hope that a convinced vote by parliament will give force to a text which, in line with article 189 of the new treaty, will guarantee scientific and technological development in a sector whose sustainable growth is an essential condition for the union.
gmes specifically for safety and environment and the management of mitigation, global warming and extreme weather event review policies.
it was a fruitful collaboration which led us to adopt, almost unanimously, a text on a subject which has been underestimated by the institutions and by the political world for too long, namely food waste.
if it is true, as all the most authoritative sources of information now say, that one of the main problems of the immediate future will be to meet a new and very strong demand for food, and that the issue of food security has therefore become one of the most difficult problems to tackle because in the future the demand for food will tend to exceed the supply, we can no longer afford to remain passive in the face of a phenomenon, that of food waste.
when we talk about food, we are talking about food that is still perfectly edible, which has assumed an enormous and no longer sustainable dimension.
in fact, we have reached a point - fao estimates that one third of the food produced each year in the world is wasted for human consumption, in europe we are already at 50%, and that each citizen on average wastes 105 kilograms of food per year - where we are told that we are not only facing an ethical problem, but a real economic, social issue with enormous implications for the environment.
that is why we want to make the fight against food waste a priority on the political agenda of the european union.
we therefore ask the commission to guide the 27 member states in adopting a common strategy to promote a real leap forward in reducing food waste significantly by 2025. we therefore ask that all those associations, voluntary groups and centres of initiative which have launched concrete projects in this field in various countries be given greater weight.
in particular, it would be important to amend the rules on public procurement for catering services in canteens and hospitals so that, on equal terms, those undertakings which guarantee a management model aimed at combating food waste are given priority in the award of contracts.
a genuine awareness-raising campaign must be promoted, with the major farmers' organisations, industry, schools and universities at the forefront, in order to bring about a civilized and scientific culture geared to a more sober and environmentally sustainable consumption model.
firstly, we hope that they will take action now to declare 2014 the european year against food waste; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow food waste to increase any further and we must combat it by means of specific instruments, but also by means of a culture that shows its economic, environmental and social effects.
food waste has increased by 50% in the last 30 years, with consequences not only ethical but also economic, environmental, social, nutritional and health.
it does not seem ethically sustainable that, in the face of the approximately 70 million people in europe living below the poverty line, there are still tons of edible food thrown in the garbage and that the materials used to produce and pack these foods cannot be differentiated as much as possible.
the committee on agriculture's proposals cover areas ranging from packaging to more detailed information on expiry, and aim to help citizens avoid waste and reuse products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to thanking mr caronna for having been able to raise this issue not only because of the implications of the social scandal but also because of the potential opportunities linked to the fight against waste, i would like to turn to commissioner tajani in his capacity as vice-president of the commission to stress what is strategically crucial for us.
how can the commission help to combat waste?
the study also shows that industrialized and developing countries waste about the same amount of food - 670 and 630 million tons respectively.
every year, consumers in the richest countries waste almost as much food (222 million tonnes) as the entire net food production of sub-saharan africa (230 million tonnes).
agreeing that the said unece regulation will allow the application of the same standards in many countries and that the benefits of such harmonised regulations are reflected in road safety, environmental protection and trade, i am voting in favour of the draft council decision on the accession of the union to regulation no 29 of the economic commission for europe laying down uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle.
the recommendation we voted on in the house this morning provides a good example of the role of the european union, which is to harmonize the different systems at global level, in this case in road safety, environmental protection and trade, with a view to simplifying the regulatory framework.
agreeing that this unece regulation will allow the same standards to be applied in many countries and that the benefits of such harmonised regulations are reflected in road safety, environmental protection and trade, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the unece position on pedestrian safety and light emitting diode (led) light sources.
icao was established as a specialised un agency and member states cooperate in aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection.
− the memorandum of cooperation (moc) between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao) to formalise and improve relations and cooperation aims to strengthen cooperation in the areas of aviation safety, air navigation security, air traffic management and environmental protection.
furthermore, further rules in the areas of air navigation protection, air traffic management and environmental protection will be necessary to achieve the highest level of aviation safety worldwide.
the exponential growth of weee waste makes it imperative to make major changes to the regulations governing its recycling and production.
in line with these objectives, in addition to avoiding further damage to the environment and retaining valuable resources, high collection rates, adequate recycling standards, strong action against illegal exports and a fairer distribution of responsibilities and costs between producers, consumers and public authorities are needed.
firstly, environmentally friendly design, not only in terms of energy consumption standards but also in terms of simplifying the procedures for disposal or recovery of raw materials.
the resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment was adopted by a large majority in the house today.
the update voted today, which must be formally adopted by the council before being published in the official journal, sets ambitious targets, particularly as regards increasing the collection rate of waste electronic products.
the revision of the weee directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment requires member states to develop new techniques for separate collection and recycling of such materials.
- the report by mr florenz on waste electrical and electronic equipment was voted on today in plenary.
the new environmental objectives were approved today in agreement with the council.
the updated 2003 waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directive also gives consumers the possibility to return small e-waste to retailers, reducing the bureaucratic burden on businesses.
member states will have to increase the collection of e-waste, with 45 tonnes of e-waste to be collected by 2016 for every 100 tonnes of goods placed on the market in the previous three years.
by 2019, this figure should rise to 65% or alternatively, 85% of the waste electronic material produced can be collected.
- i voted in favour of the document in question because it will finally update the 2003 directive on the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment and will make it easier to collect and recycle refrigerators, telephones and computer gadgets.
i think it is particularly useful that from today consumers will be able to return small e-waste directly to retailers, reducing the bureaucratic burden on businesses and optimising the specific collection procedures.
better treatment of such waste will also make it possible to recover more valuable raw materials such as gold used for electronic circuits, and ultimately prevent harmful substances from ending up in landfills.
- i fully agree with the report by mr florenz on waste electrical and electronic equipment, a subject which is becoming increasingly worrying as this type of waste continues to increase.
- the compromise agreement reached at the informal trilogue on 20 december is, in my view, a good result for the protection of the recycling of small household appliances and the consequent protection of the environment.
the old text implements the principle of producer responsibility and requires member states to collect an average of at least 4 kg of electrical and electronic waste per inhabitant per year.
i agree with the rapporteur on this point, but also that the authorisation in question is the most effective system for promoting the availability of the products in question, stimulating innovation and improving the protection of human health and the environment.
the european chemicals agency is responsible for marketing authorization and will be responsible for monitoring the application of this regulation in order to considerably increase the level of protection of health and the environment that it seeks to achieve.
today, a major agreement was reached with the council which provides for stricter health and environmental controls on products to repel insects or kill bacteria and common rules for companies on the authorisation process for sale.
- i voted in favour of this document because it will allow for stricter controls on pesticides, both from a health and environmental point of view, by introducing common rules for companies on the authorisation process for sale.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment (2007-2013) and the european union's action plan for the environment (2008-2013).
i voted in favour of mr klaß's report because it presents a balanced package which guarantees safer, better controlled and more widely distributed products, also makes the costs of marketing authorizations uniform and increases the level of protection of health and the environment.
we must maintain a high level of protection of human health, animal health and the environment and extend consumer protection through clear and specific product labelling.
the final compromise package, agreed as a result of the negotiations between the council and parliament, seems to me to succeed in combining the objective of a high level of protection of human health and the environment with that of a faster and more efficient authorization system for the industrial sector.
among the main objectives of the proposal i would like to mention in particular that of increasing the level of protection of health and the environment, through a progressive elimination of the most dangerous substances and an extension of the scope to articles treated with biocidal products, together with procedures linked to the placing on the market of more precise and better active substances and biocidal products, updating the authorization system and introducing elements of simplification and harmonization.
indeed, the vulnerability of the agri-food chain and the volatility of prices, especially of the factors of production, make the sector highly unequal today and do not help the efficiency and sustainability of the agricultural chain.
however, i must say that the reference to the issue of climate change, which has nothing to do with the question of agricultural production factors, is too strong and too insistent.
− the report is part of the debate on cap 2020 reform, seeking to inform its content, to better adapt it to the important challenges facing farmers, and to transform those challenges from potential risk factors into opportunities to advance the process of transforming agriculture towards an environmentally sustainable and energy-efficient way of life.
to achieve these results, without jeopardizing the survival of a large number of small operators, especially those located in the most remote areas of the continent, it is necessary to act on those levers that make the management of agricultural activities economically sustainable.
the report for which a favourable opinion is expressed has the merit of indicating precisely the areas of intervention, both by calling for a better and more constant commitment to combating cartel formation at the level of suppliers of the main production factors (seeds and fertilisers) and by indicating a transformation of the supply systems of resources, which is environmentally sustainable and economically advantageous.
we therefore urge the ec and the member states to ensure greater monitoring and analysis at eu and world level of the economic mechanisms underlying the continuing rise in food prices, together with the interactions between fluctuations in supply and demand, and the increasing interactions between energy, factor and food price developments.
- we support this report because it has the merit of identifying the problems that are at the root of agricultural production, paying particular attention to the increase in the last decade in production factors such as energy, machinery, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds and water.
we therefore consider it essential to support the policy options suggested here by the rapporteur, with the aim of enabling farmers to contain the costs of the factors of production, in order to increase their autonomy and income and to ensure a more efficient and sustainable use of production resources.
it is right to ask the commission to promote more efficient agronomic practices and improved sustainable management of agricultural resources, with the aim of creating stable and productive agriculture, reducing the cost of inputs and nutrient wastage, and promoting innovation, resource efficiency and effectiveness and sustainability in agricultural systems.
this seriously threatens the sustainability of the sector, especially for agriculture.
it is also a cornerstone for environmental safety, climate monitoring, emergency management, disaster prevention and many other aspects.
in addition to being a driver of industrial development, space policy has a crucial role to play in protecting the environment, combating climate change and ensuring the safety of european citizens.
it supports the objectives of a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy capable of creating highly skilled jobs, providing business opportunities, stimulating innovation and improving the well-being and security of citizens.
the union will then be able to play an important role in the field of space exploration, overcoming the current dispersion of interventions, identifying and supporting the development of technologies for exploration in the fields of energy, health and support for isolated environments.
− i fully support this document because we cannot ignore the fact that every year in europe a growing amount of food, up to 50 %, becomes waste.
a study published by the commission estimates annual food-waste generation in the 27 member states at approximately 89 million tonnes.
food security is a basic human right and for this reason the european institutions and the member states must address, as a matter of urgency, the problem of food waste along the entire supply and consumption chain.
reducing food waste is a vital preliminary step in combating hunger in the world, responding to the increased demand predicted by the fao and improving people’s nutritional levels.
i believe that a good way to start to reduce this enormous problem is to inform people not only about the causes and effects of waste but also about ways of reducing it.
a civic culture guided by the principles of sustainability and solidarity could be the first step in the right direction.
food waste statistics tell us that in some cases, almost 50 percent of healthy, edible food is wasted in the food chain.
this has implications not only for the sustainability of the food chain and food production itself, but also for product prices and the eco-sustainability of food waste.
the commission and the council are also invited to declare 2012 the 'european year against food waste' in order to raise awareness among institutions and consumers of the many harms caused by the dispersion of huge quantities of food throughout the food chain and of the need for a change of course in this area.
− it is no longer surprising that the level of food waste data has ethical as well as social, economic and environmental significance.
yet, despite the ever-increasing amount - estimated by the fao to be as much as 50% of total output - of lost goods along all links in the agri-food chain, there is still no clear, univocal and uniform definition of the concept of 'food waste' in europe.
in contrast, the deplorable statistic that europeans and north americans waste up to 115 kg of food per capita.
one of the main merits of the report is that it does not limit the problem to its most obvious aspect - waste generated by the final consumer - which, however deplorable, is only one part of a wider and more complex problem.
on the other hand, intervention strategies must be identified to address the specific causes of waste in each of the five sectors (production, storage, processing, distribution, consumption) that make up the agri-food chain.
we must use this data as a starting point for a coordinated european strategy and effective measures that can drastically reduce food waste.
until now, the european union has underestimated this problem, which has not only social, but also economic and environmental consequences.
recent studies show that as much as 10 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in developed countries come from the production of the same food that is thrown away every day.
the resolution adopted today calls for an integrated and shared approach - from producer to consumer - to reduce food waste substantially.
- i strongly supported this report because the level of food waste must not increase any further and we must combat it with tools but also a culture aimed at explaining its causes and economic, environmental and social effects.
in the face of a phenomenon which has increased by 50% in the last thirty years, with repercussions not only ethical but also economic, environmental, social, nutritional and health-related, it does not seem ethically sustainable that some 80 million people in europe live below the poverty line.
the tons of food that can still be eaten and thrown away are often eliminated through high economic and environmental costs that society itself pays for when it could do much, often unconsciously, to limit the amount.
- food waste has become a global problem.
the amount of food produced today can actually still be reused for food purposes instead of being disposed of like any other waste, with significant environmental and economic impacts and ethical implications.
the fight against food waste must therefore become a priority on the european political agenda; the commission, the council and the member states are called upon to adopt concrete strategies and measures to halve the use of lead in the supply chain by 2025, to improve the efficiency of the supply chain and to raise public awareness of a subject that is still largely ignored.
citizens need to be informed not only about the causes and consequences of waste but also about how to reduce it; promote a scientific and civic culture oriented towards the principles of sustainability and solidarity in order to encourage the most virtuous behaviour.
- i am voting in favour of mr caronna's report because i think it is entirely acceptable that the european union should send a strong signal against food waste.
food waste is not only a huge problem with the hunger suffered by many of the world's people, but also with the limited natural resources.
i think that the european institutions have taken a commendable initiative in declaring 2013 the european year against food waste.
given that most waste occurs in the distribution and consumption phases, such a declaration would play a fundamental role in raising the interest of the european peoples in this problem.
- i wanted to express my positive opinion of this report, as i believe it is essential that there should be an effective fight against food waste.
the world population is constantly increasing, and the challenge of world food supply will have to be faced and overcome in the coming years, and it is therefore imperative that we begin not to waste what is already at our disposal.
in addition to causing economic damage to producers and consumers, food waste also has a strong social impact, which is why measures to support the collection and recovery at local level of unsold or discarded products that are perfectly usable should be encouraged, so that they can be redistributed to disadvantaged groups, for example.
the european union must take the lead in developing best practice in this field and ensure that it is then developed throughout europe; the community institutions themselves should then be the first to set an example by committing themselves to limiting waste in the canteens for their staff.
the implementation of strategies to improve the efficiency of the food chain is of considerable importance, since the 'culture of non-waste' must be taught to all categories of citizens and encouraged through public measures aimed at product control.
in this way, everyone can contribute to environmental conservation by reducing waste and increasing savings.
the text adopted, in the light of the fao study on food loss and waste worldwide, is a clear statement by the european parliament on the enormous food waste which still occurs in europe.
the main objective of this report is to make the fight against food waste a priority on the european political agenda.
it calls for cooperation between member states and european institutions to develop concrete measures and strategies to halve food waste along the entire supply chain by 2025. it will also be important to launch an awareness and information campaign to make citizens aware not only of the causes and consequences of waste but also of the opportunities to reduce it.
- the level of food waste has increased by 50% over the last 30 years.
we cannot allow this waste to grow any further, the situation is not ethically sustainable.
it has been estimated that about 200 tons of food waste per capita is produced annually, about a thousand dollars of food waste per household per year.
i voted in favour of mr caronna's report because i share the effort to make a substantial step forward in the direction of reducing food waste.
a european strategy is needed to ensure greater efficiency and sustainability in the food chain, and this must be developed as soon as possible.
i believe that the potential opportunities of the fight against waste should be exploited.
in particular in this economic crisis, it is crucial to avoid waste.
- according to some studies, food waste worldwide has increased by 50% since 1974. and this production of surplus food that we don't consume comes at a high environmental cost, from the use of energy and natural resources to the emissions of gases into the atmosphere.
the aim of this vote is to counter this trend by stressing the importance of spreading a culture of waste prevention in all member states, which must become a priority on the european agenda.
citizens need to be informed not only about the causes and consequences of waste but also about how to reduce it.
a scientific and civic culture oriented towards the principles of sustainability and solidarity should be promoted in order to encourage the most virtuous behaviour, especially by supporting the voluntary initiatives of associations committed to promoting the culture of anti-waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that we are debating today in the plenary a resolution which is the result of the many petitions that have been received by the european parliament and which refers specifically to the question of waste.
at times it seems that technology has completely overcome every problem related to the health of citizens and the environment.
but today, in this very house, it is difficult to find anyone who is prepared to defend nuclear energy.
the spirit of the waste directive must be implemented in a rigid manner, with a waste cycle based on the concepts of reduction, reuse and recycling.
i hope that the european commission will propose stricter criteria and procedures for the construction of incinerators and the opening of landfills, and encourage serious zero waste policies in all member states.
this own-initiative report by the committee on petitions arose out of the strong need, felt by many, to respond more fully to the citizens who have addressed the committee on petitions with numerous requests, which are then genuine complaints, about a serious and incorrect application of community law in the environmental field, but in particular in the field of waste management.
the most frequent complaint is that of incorrect activation of waste incineration and treatment plants.
as the commission has repeatedly said, having carried out numerous in-depth studies on the subject, a different use of waste would save the european union over eur 72 billion and create over 40 million jobs.
i think these are important figures, especially when you combine them with the environmental and health benefits that are the first real concern of all of us.
on the other hand, there are the virtuous municipalities of padua, where we have hundreds of mayors, for example those of the league, who are dreaming barbarians, but they are also civil people who teach and control that citizens separate and organize the collection and incineration of waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the hundreds of petitions that have reached the european parliament from various eu countries make us realize the scale and seriousness of the problem of waste management.
the report's attention to the disposal of illegal waste, which affects many regions, is interesting.
in my region, as a delegation from the european parliament's committee on the environment has been able to ascertain, a high percentage of cesium 137 has been found, which is a typical nuclear waste even though there is no nuclear power station in italy.
there is an illegal waste traffic which must be monitored and curbed and which has so far been ignored by the european commission.
however, given that illegal waste traffic crosses national borders, we need to think about how to deal with it at european level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear from the many petitions that citizens have submitted to the european parliament on waste: the european waste management in europe is not going well.
there are too many citizens who still today, in 2012, pay for the consequences of poor waste management, such as incinerators and landfills, on their daily lives and health.
yet there is no shortage of good examples of environmentally sustainable waste management in the european union.
we must therefore do everything possible to achieve total recycling, where waste actually becomes a real resource.
there are treatment plants that recycle almost 100% of municipal waste, such as the vedelago waste facility in the province of treviso, whose technology is exported throughout europe.
we must recycle, recover and reduce waste and say no to the huge incinerators and landfills which are often the cause of air and water pollution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the international energy agency has estimated that at present 1.5 billion people in the world are unable to access energy sources.
globally, the energy budget is projected to reach $26 trillion over the next 20 years.
only 3% of this would be enough to ensure universal energy access as early as 2030. the proposal put forward by mr neuser on the possibility of developing and extending access to modern energy services must be a starting point for the european union to take targeted and effective action against the problem of poverty and sustainable development.
i agree with the proposals of my colleague: we europeans must also do our part to improve access to energy for the poor in the developing countries.
the commission's intention to strengthen the legal framework on taxation of savings income and the revision of the taxation of energy products is in line with this.
with this report indeed, we ask for a strategic partnership with each brics country as a means of advancing peace and global security, the promotion of human rights, democracy, sustainable development and global financial regulation.
europe cannot afford to lose the opportunity to tackle the great cross-border challenges, from climate change to food security, by joining forces with powers destined to have an economic weight greater than the g7 countries as a whole, but at the same time it must be vigilant to ensure that market rules, free competition and mutual political recognition do not just remain on the cards of international agreements but are also respected in those countries, such as the brics, where sometimes the system of values and freedoms takes on forms different from ours.
- i agree with many of the points made by my colleague jacek saryusz-wolski on the subject of relations with the brics: the idea that the union should have its own comprehensive and comprehensive approach to the issue; the idea that the growing role of emerging countries, in particular the brics, should be fully recognised within the framework of rules and values, in particular those enshrined in the un charter; the idea that parliamentary diplomacy can make a decisive contribution to the development of friendly relations, especially in those countries where parliamentarism is becoming more established; the idea that the establishment of a full political relationship with emerging realities cannot be done without considering crucial issues such as the environment, rights and working conditions.
the agreement reached by 25 of the 27 member states on the fiscal compact aims to bring public debt to a sustainable level and ensure budgetary parity among the member states.
it is also of fundamental importance to reiterate that, contrary to some states already in possession of nuclear weapons, iran is a member of the non-proliferation treaty, and as such allows for inspections of its nuclear installations by the international atomic energy agency.
the process of uranium enrichment in iran is continuing uninterruptedly, and well beyond what, according to the international atomic energy agency's technicians, is required to ensure the internal energy supply.
iran has never shown any willingness to actively cooperate with the iaea, the international atomic energy agency: this is all the more serious when one considers that the asian country is one of the signatories of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, which includes several clauses that are regularly violated.
for years now, the un, the eu and the international atomic energy agency have been imposing sanctions and embargoes on iran.
i support an embargo decision in view of the concerns that the iranian nuclear programme is raising in the international community due to suspicions of a military dimension, which have been heightened since the publication on 18 november 2011 of the latest report of the international atomic energy agency (iaea).
i hope that the situation can return to normal as soon as possible, also in view of the possible negative repercussions that the embargo would have on the eu's energy supply.
i also believe that the report makes a real contribution to identifying measures that can ensure the sustainable financing of sport and the protection of the integrity of competitions in the future.
- due to the numerous petitions concerning waste management, it was necessary to present this report, which i voted in favour of, to supplement the legislation in force.
the inability of many local authorities in most member states to manage waste disposal is certainly a cause for concern.
the concerns of many communities for human health and the well-being of the land underline that waste management is becoming a real socio-political problem.
an analysis of existing policies shows that only a few member states are keeping up with the times and are also making a profit from advanced waste processing systems.
in most eu countries, however, there is a worrying delay in implementing waste strategies and an over-reliance on landfills.
a coherent policy and a stronger commitment to the proper application of existing legislation and to sustainable disposal plans are therefore urgently needed.
more needs to be done, in line with the law, and the waste management process needs to be improved to ensure more effective environmental protection and a more sustainable future.
the report highlights the long delay in the implementation of the waste directive in some areas of europe and the numerous violations of the directive: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
− in recent years, most european citizens have complained through the petition system that the public authorities in many countries are unable to deal satisfactorily with the problem of their own waste management.
although the european union has adopted a draft legislative framework applicable in all member states to ensure that there is a single legal framework, the petitions received show that the concerns of many local communities have increased, indicating that waste management is becoming a major political and social problem and that citizens expect the european union to take further action in this area.
- i am voting in favour of the report by mr carlos josé iturgaiz angulo because i believe that the problem of waste disposal is a priority from which the member states must not and cannot evade.
it is imperative that the european waste directive be implemented in such a way as to prevent environmental disasters and health risks.
according to the european commission, europeans produce three billion tonnes of waste every year.
such a quantity requires a sound environmental impact assessment for landfills, as well as the proper operation of waste management facilities.
it is also regrettable that some member states are having difficulties in transposing the framework directive on waste.
the question of waste disposal is not only a health issue but also a part of the fight against the infiltration of organised crime into the waste management and disposal process.
in this sense, i can only welcome the strengthening of the european environment agency which would contribute not only to a substantial improvement of the environment but also to providing that important and reliable information for both politicians and citizens.
the correct application of the waste management directive is essential to tackle what has now become a major political and social problem.
- the issue of waste management is certainly of the utmost importance and is receiving the due interest and attention of citizens, who have expressed their views on the subject through 114 petitions submitted to the european parliament over the last six years.
it seems almost certain that a large part of the petitions from italy concern the management of waste in naples and campania: this incredible situation has been going on for many years, and there are several causes, including poor political and administrative management and the presence of heavy camorist infiltration.
the report rightly points out that there is a very large business involved in waste, which organized crime is dangerously keen to get its hands on, and therefore the attention of everyone, local administrators and politicians in the first place, must be paid to this.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on waste management because it is essential to ensure that our citizens have guarantees for their health and well-being.
the citizens are demanding clarity and procedural transparency and the number of petitions this parliament receives on waste and landfills is telling: between 2004 and 2010, it declared admissible 114 petitions alleging infringements.
data published by eurostat show that citizens produce an average of 513 kg of waste per year.
citizens' reports during the public consultation process and environmental impact assessment on sites for new landfills often relate to alleged violations of protected areas, such as the vesuvius national park landfill, or concerns about the negative impact on health and well-being.
europe should provide incentives for citizens who are diligent in separate collection so that taxes can be reduced and waste treatment can be made less impactful for the territory and the citizens.
waste management, if done efficiently, can attract investment and create jobs.
more investment is needed to provide efficient waste management facilities and thus create wealth and jobs.
a system for classifying waste is also needed to help citizens understand the waste cycle, thereby increasing recycling rates.
finally, to improve the fight against organised crime infiltration into the waste management process, an effective system of 'financial monitoring' of community funds allocated to enterprises by local and national authorities is needed.
− the adoption of this report highlights how waste management, if done efficiently, can bring investment and create jobs.
the opportunity is therefore suggested to encourage greater investment in efficient waste management facilities, thus creating wealth and jobs.
we also propose a colour system to classify waste, helping citizens to understand the waste cycle and increase recycling rates.
it is also important to improve the fight against organised crime infiltration into the waste management process, perhaps by adopting an effective system of 'financial monitoring' of community funds allocated to businesses by local and national authorities.
- i am in favour of the text of the report because the issue of waste management has been the subject of petitions to the european parliament in recent years because of the failure of the public authorities in many countries to deal with this issue in a consistent and correct way.
unfortunately, in many places, waste management is a business in the hands of organized crime.
this is a text which has listed many of the problems relating to the application of the waste management rules.
the references to the principle of subsidiarity are correct, and the strong interests involved in the disposal of waste, especially in certain regions, involve the mafia and organized crime in general.
the campania case is well known, but it is also necessary to point out that in italy, mainly in the po valley regions, but sometimes also in the south, there are cases of excellent waste cycle management that can serve as an example for the whole of europe.
- in europe, about 1.3 billion tonnes of waste are produced each year, excluding agricultural waste.
however, general waste should not be confused with municipal waste.
overall, waste in europe is divided into 29% waste from mining, 26% waste from manufacturing, 22% waste from construction and demolition and 14% municipal waste.
the production of municipal waste in europe is therefore 198 million tonnes.
with a population of 375 million in the eu, each inhabitant in europe produces 527 kg of waste every year.
27% of municipal waste ends up in the recycling or composting chain.
the remaining 19% of waste is incinerated with or without energy recovery.
the problem of waste disposal is only one aspect of the story.
i would like to stress that the amount of waste we produce is the result of our unsustainable lifestyle.
our current modes of production and consumption must be changed to minimise the pressure on the earth's (non-renewable) resources.
in short, waste generation is one of the best indicators of our progress towards sustainable development.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
finally, to ensure its sustainability, it is necessary to promote and implement the exchange of best practices.
− i voted for this text as it makes clear that the millennium development goals will not be achieved unless substantial progress is made on improving energy access.
the world energy outlook 2011 of the international energy agency (iea) emphasises that worldwide about 1.3 billion people have no access to electricity.
access to sustainable energy sources and modern energy services is a prerequisite for economic growth and social development, as well as for the realisation of several of the rights contained in the 1966 international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights and other international human rights and environmental legal instruments.
in addition to that, although there is no millennium development goal specifically related to energy, i strongly believe that energy should move to the forefront of the debate on eradication of poverty.
for this reason the commission and the member states must endorse and commit to support the un recently established international target of universal energy access by 2030, and align their policies and development cooperation with this objective.
by this same means we also ask for the establishment, within eu development cooperation, of a specific ‘energy and development’ programme, with special focus on universal energy access.
− access to modern energy services is a key prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable human development worldwide.
energy services have a general impact on people's lives and livelihoods: without such access, entire communities are condemned to a life of poverty.
energy poverty in developing countries is a serious problem.
bilateral cooperation between eu countries on energy assistance has focused on economic growth and environmental objectives rather than on energy access for the poor.
not only will we have to increase funds (european development fund and energy facility) and allocate them more targeted to the poor and geographically isolated sections of the population, but we will be called upon to make greater efforts to invest in small-scale decentralised energy projects and, at least initially, to reduce our profit margins.
only by showing political will and financial commitment can the european union play a key role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030 (as envisaged by the un).
- the vast financial gap to be filled to provide access to energy for all cannot be ignored.
the goal of universal access to energy is one of the most difficult challenges, but it is a just battle that we must all fight together.
- ladies and gentlemen, in line with the objective of 'universal access to energy by 2030' launched by the un secretary-general, the european union is developing a common policy for the development of energy systems.
energy is the basis of modern life, it affects the life of each of us and that is why the international community is concerned with policies to improve energy development.
i too believe that the objective of achieving global energy coverage is necessary because it is a fundamental requirement for poverty reduction and sustainable development.
the role of energy services is crucial to the achievement of the millennium development goals as energy development can ensure wealth, access to information, education, health and gender equality, not to mention environmental sustainability and development in general.
− the united nations general assembly has proclaimed 2012 the international year of energy.
at this time of reflection, it is undeniable that access to modern energy services is a fundamental prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable human development.
optimising the use of renewable sources is the ideal solution that the international community must adopt to achieve universal access to modern energy services, while at the same time combating climate change.
this vote on energy actually has several objectives: to eliminate extreme poverty and hunger, to ensure universal primary education, to promote gender equality and the empowerment of women, to reduce child mortality, to improve maternal health and the situation regarding aids, malaria and other diseases, to ensure environmental sustainability and to develop a global partnership for development.
the rapporteur also calls for the opening up of the energy and credit rating agencies sectors, which are crucial and sensitive, and for competition to be encouraged.
the climate is favourable and supportive of citizenship, as is shown by the activity of consumer associations in the field of european competition law.
what european strategy should be adopted to combat this waste?
regarding the horse mackerel plan and the long-term management plans in general, i agree with you, mr gallagher, and with ms rodust and the presidency of course, that this is an issue of great importance in relation to the sustainability of stocks: it really is a matter of urgency.
while i do not have time to discuss the whole idea of the common fisheries policy, i would like to focus on this issue of social sustainability.
i also made sure that the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) has increased funding for the sustainable development of coastal areas.
we want posted workers to work in a safe, well-regulated environment with greater awareness of the circumstances and their own rights, and much better administrative cooperation between the member states.
i would add, beyond the social services of general interest, that this concern is shared by mine, since we share the same political objective, in the name of this competitive social market economy which must be the basis of european action or which should become it again, to ensure the quality, accessibility and sustainability of public services in europe and to adapt existing legislation as much as possible to the realities of the 21st century.
the creation of a coherent legal and fiscal environment and a framework for cooperation between member states is necessary, including through greater and better interconnection of business registers.
- i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that the interconnection of central, commercial and company registers is a measure designed to create a more favourable legal and fiscal environment.
we have talked about food waste.
major efforts are being made towards the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, as well as towards sustainable and inclusive development.
we are saying this to the producers of tomatoes, fruit and vegetables, citrus fruits, grapes, peaches and cherries, who are in danger of being not threatened but rather of being crushed by the entry of products from morocco into the market, where there is no certainty about environmental quality standards, the fertilizers used and social standards such as social security and wage guarantees for agricultural workers in morocco.
mr president, the vote in favour by this parliament of the programme for the distribution of food to the poor for the next two years is above all a necessary act, also in view of the fact that a few weeks ago we approved a report against food waste which had, among other things, the fundamental objective of helping the most deprived sections of the population.
young people, often highly qualified and with a lot of energy and desire to do something, are left to wither away in a system where the old man's rule has become the norm.
the strategy sets out the path towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, characterised by high employment rates, productivity and social cohesion.
occasions such as this, and the annual growth review, which we are called upon to comment on in the form of the 'annual guidelines for sustainable growth', give us every year the opportunity to put the future of europe's younger generations at the centre of our debate and to participate in the discussion between the member states and the european commission.
- i am voting in favour of mr berès' report because, in the light of the acute economic and employment crisis in europe today, the objectives of sustainable growth have become extremely important and crucial.
the economic recovery policy proposed by the european commission must remain a strategy of sustainable and inclusive growth and not become exclusive to the detriment of women because of the financial and economic crisis.
however, it is hoped that the fight against food waste can be supplemented by programmes which make use of food recovered through rational distribution and use, in order to redistribute it to the most vulnerable groups and those most at risk of poverty.
the regulation dealt with in this proposal lays the foundations for a development that will enable the union to take the global lead in broadband speed, coverage and capacity, with significant positive consequences in areas such as the economy, security, health, culture, science, environment and technology.
the high level group on milk (hlg) was then set up in october 2009 and the debate on what to do was officially launched in a difficult environment of continued excessive volatility in milk prices.
furthermore, i would like to stress that a sustainable fiscal framework is a necessary condition for joint bond issuance and must be aimed at both strengthened economic governance and economic growth in the euro area.
finally, it is important to strengthen the role of parliament in defining the instruments for growth, and in this sense we have a clear request to the european commission to transform the annual growth analysis into 'annual guidelines for sustainable growth' for the coming years, so that we can table amendments.
− given that unemployment has increased significantly since 2008 and has reached 23 million unemployed in the eu, and given that the labour market situation is particularly difficult for young people, i am in favour of integrating sustainable job creation through investment and tax reforms into the political guidelines for the 2012 european semester; to improve the quality of employment and the conditions for greater participation in work; addressing youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion by focusing on groups with little or no link to the labour market.
consistency and greater ambition are needed to achieve the europe 2020 strategy objectives, to support sustainable job creation through investment and tax reforms, and to improve the quality of employment and conditions for greater participation in work.
priority must be given to tackling unemployment, fiscal consolidation and the promotion of sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment, and to modernising the public administrations of the european union.
member states must do their utmost to correct their deficits within the time limits set by the council and bring them to a sustainable level.
in the light of this, member states must vigorously implement the economic policies to which they have committed themselves, measures which must aim at reducing debt and restoring competitiveness and a sustainable economy capable of creating jobs.
investment should also focus in particular on research, education and innovation and support smes, which are the real pillars of long-term sustainable growth.
i refer in particular to the emphasis on the need to respond to economic challenges through concerted macroeconomic strategies; the need to pursue growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, differentiated from one member state to another according to the needs and characteristics of individuals; the need to guarantee long-term financing for the real economy and smes; the need to promote sustainable growth, education, research and innovation through more competitive financing and investment; the need to combat unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; the need to modernise the eu's public administration and services of general interest.
too many member states have lost sight of the main objectives of europe 2020 in terms of employment, education and poverty reduction, focusing only on the sovereign debt crisis and lacking the awareness that only medium- and long-term measures that can promote growth, such as those in education, research, innovation and energy, can respond to the difficult phase that the union has been going through for too long.
the report we have voted on today is therefore an important step forward for the european union: priority is given to growth-friendly policies, to be achieved through action in the fields of education, research, innovation, infrastructure and energy, areas where the european union cannot afford not to be competitive with the rest of the world.
− we believe that the solutions envisaged for the current financial and sovereign debt crisis in the annual review presented by the commission should be accompanied by a greater focus on medium and long-term measures to boost growth, as well as a reorganisation of the overall economic framework, in order to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and ensure its lasting success.
finally, we are in favour of the creation of project bonds to help finance key infrastructure projects in order to promote sustainable growth and employment.
it is right that the solutions envisaged for the current financial and debt crisis should be accompanied by a greater focus on medium- and long-term measures to boost growth and a reorganisation of the overall economic framework in order to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and ensure its lasting success.
− the annual growth analysis sets priorities for action at national and eu level for the next 12 months, including for the achievement of the eu 2020 strategy objectives, which should be mainstreamed in national economic and budgetary decisions, in line with eu country-specific recommendations; efforts at national and eu level should focus on the following five priorities: 1) to pursue a differentiated and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation while ensuring economic recovery and job creation; (2) to ensure the long-term financing of the real economy; 3) promoting sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment; (iv) combating unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; 5) modernise the eu's public administration and services of general interest.
i therefore believe that a more efficient public administration is essential to the existence of a competitive economic environment that can stimulate growth by exploiting the benefits of membership of the european single market.
− given that the latest statistics show an increase in inequalities and unemployment in the european union, and given that most member states have lost sight of the main objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, i support the commission's analysis that efforts at national and eu level should focus on the following priorities: a differentiated fiscal consolidation favourable to growth in parallel with economic recovery and job creation; ensuring the long-term financing of the real economy; promoting sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment; tackle unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis and modernise the eu's public administration and services of general interest.
the vote supports a reorganisation of the overall economic framework to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and ensure its lasting success.
the growth prospects of all member states depend to a large extent on the resoluteness with which the debt crisis is addressed and on the effectiveness with which coordinated economic policies ensure a greater focus on investment for sustainable growth and job creation.
the revitalisation of competitiveness and the launch of new macroeconomic strategies, together with the modernisation of public administration and the promotion of sustainable growth, are the basis for boosting the economy, combating rampant unemployment and promoting a return on investment in european industry.
(the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report talks about the reduction of waste by the european parliament, but it does not mention the real waste, which we all know very well: the cost of having two parliamentary seats is at least 200 million a year, which, in a legislature, is a record one billion euros.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the difficult international economic and financial environment and the lack of strong european governance have highlighted the weaknesses of individual member states, many of which are demanding enormous sacrifices from their citizens in an attempt to avert a period of unprecedented socioeconomic dislocation.
i would therefore like to join in thanking mr vaughan for the work he has done in a climate of great sharing and absolute cooperation.
here are some of the sectors that the eu will put at risk without gmes: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment, the environment and sustainable development, which sets out the main priorities for the eu's action plan for the environment and sustainable development.
i would add to this the support, particularly to the african countries, of all the technology currently needed to manage the environment.
we often discuss in this parliament the fight against climate change, environmental degradation and desertification.
we also discuss civil protection and security, sustainable development, mobility, crisis management and aid to developing countries.
firstly, i was minister for the environment in my own country, as mrs dati and mrs de veyrac know very well.
so, mrs ţicău, mrs hall, mrs băsescu, mr luhan, mrs foster and you, mr prodi, were right to point out the major strategic importance of a programme like gmes for everything related to prevention, the right conditions for repairing certain disasters, climate change management, environmental management.
i would like to say to mr prodi, who is still very much interested in these environmental and gmes issues, that it is true that these eight member states you mentioned have, officially, in a letter to the commission, asked for gmes to be reintroduced into the financial framework.
the current financial crisis has created a climate of understandable distrust of banks and financial institutions, to the extent that the commission considered in 2010 to revert once again to previous directives governing this matter, given the delicate situation many banks are experiencing as a result of the financial turmoil.
the achievement of savings by strengthening interinstitutional cooperation, sharing best practice between institutions and modernising human resources, technology and environmental policies can and must become a strategic objective for the community institutions.
- i believe it is of paramount importance, especially in the current austerity climate, to continue to demonstrate that the european institutions are acting responsibly, making real savings and respecting appropriate budgetary rigor.
we can 't keep hiding behind a finger: we are talking about cuts and reductions when we ourselves are complicit, against our will, in the greatest and most absurd waste of all.
the objective for the 2013 budget to continue on the same line in avoiding waste in view of the period of economic difficulties i find fully favourable.
we must therefore work on a budget for parliament's expenditure in order to have good budget forecasts which do not harm investment sectors and which limit waste exclusively.
today more than ever budgetary discipline must be strict, especially by all the international institutions, which are called upon to be particularly vigilant against any kind of waste and mismanagement.
as cod is the main stock of fish for this use throughout the european union, i think it is appropriate that, for sustainable exploitation and maximum long-term yield, we should once again be concerned here in parliament with maintaining a strategic sector for many european locations.
the mediterranean regulation, which aims to improve fisheries management in order to achieve sustainable fishing, protect the delicate balance of the marine environment and bring fish stocks back to safe levels, came fully into force on 1 june.
the participation of all mediterranean countries, including my own, is crucial, and the eu is actively working within multilateral organisations, including the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean and the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, to improve scientific knowledge and ensure a level playing field for promoting sustainability.
i therefore call on the european decisions to take account of both aspects: sustainability and local development.
- i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on russia because, given the eu's geopolitical importance as an energy supplier and economic partner, i believe that a further effort should be made to protect freedom of information, to fight corruption and, consequently, to hold free elections.
we must take into account that moroccan farmers not only face production and labour costs that are far below those in the eu, but they are not even required to meet the same production standards in terms of environmental and food safety.
i hope, therefore, that there will be a willingness to proceed with a revision of the proposed agreement which safeguards the principle of reciprocity and the possibility for our farmers to compete in a competitive situation which is, if not equal, certainly sustainable.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in an already economically and socially difficult environment for european agriculture, a liberalisation agreement of this kind would have a catastrophic impact on european farmers, particularly in the sensitive fruit and vegetable sector, with dramatic repercussions on employment in rural areas of the european union.
it is also necessary to take into account the different production standards in terms of environmental, phytosanitary and quality of products originating in morocco and that the european system of entry prices for such imports does not take into account the production and labour costs specific to the eu.
we must take into account that moroccan farmers not only face production and labour costs that are far below those in the eu, but they are not even required to meet the same production standards in terms of environmental and food safety.
i hope, therefore, that there will be a willingness to proceed with a revision of the proposed agreement which safeguards the principle of reciprocity and the possibility for our farmers to compete in a competitive situation which is, if not equal, certainly sustainable.
gmes is one of the two flagship initiatives of the union in the space sector and is of key political, strategic and technological importance in monitoring climate change, preventing environmental disasters, managing emergencies and organising mobility and energy exchange.
we must not forget that accurate and timely information about our planet is essential to ensure safety, to alert citizens to disasters or to simple air quality deterioration and to mitigate the effects of climate change.
this, however, raises serious doubts about the safety of nuclear energy.
the report by mr veld, however, has a number of criticisms: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly production of agricultural products.
in the last year i have seen that many of those have a lot of energy and action.
there is no doubt that this is an absolute priority, because we believe that the judicial training of judges and judicial staff serves not only to reduce the distances between the various judicial systems, which must remain distinct for the characteristic features of each of them, but certainly this mutual cooperation, this concrete collaboration can certainly facilitate, today more than ever, what is the transnational dimension of law: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the legal profession, including the creation of a common area of judicial training, and the possible exchange of information through erasmus, in order to define an area of freedom, justice and security in which each of the members can have a say in a concrete way, in a common european market in which competitiveness and sustainability are closely linked to the system of liberalization of the professions, in which it is important to have high quality standards.
the strategy of wage deflation induced by austerity policies as an alternative to devaluation is not economically and socially sustainable, it is not politically hegemonic!
in today's highly competitive global environment, it is no longer acceptable that the gender gap is a discriminatory factor that can have such a profound impact not only on the professional prospects but also on the civil dignity of all women.
women's political participation, in particular, is fundamental to democracy and is essential for achieving sustainable development and peace.
this vote also reaffirms that the active participation of women, on an equal basis with men, at all levels of decision-making is essential to achieve equality, sustainable development, peace and democracy.
in addition to a social cooperative's bonding and solidarity function, cooperative banks have demonstrated high levels of sustainability and resilience during the financial crisis, thanks to their cooperative business model.
− the main priority of the europe 2020 strategy is to aim to boost europe's economy over the next decade by investing in employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and climate/energy.
mobility, recognition of qualifications, increased funding and more effective dialogue between universities and business are the priorities to be focused on for the revival and modernisation of higher education in europe the current financial crisis will lead to a further reduction in the financial resources available in the entire education sector, but this economic environment should nevertheless encourage an acceleration of the process and the study of new financial formats and frameworks that allow a more effective implementation of the objectives of growth and excellence of european universities.
the provision of accurate, high-quality statistics is crucial for sustainable regional development.
the provision of accurate, relevant and high-quality statistics is of key importance for sustainable and balanced regional development in the context of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, and the availability of accurate data should be the starting point for obtaining detailed information on individual areas such as demography, the economy and the environment.
the availability of precise and accurate data is the starting point for obtaining detailed information on individual areas such as demography, economy and environment and therefore plays a key role in the decision-making process on regional development, in particular in the context of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the difficult economic and financial environment created by the crisis has put a strain on the budgets of the member states, which are already in a precarious situation, and has led to a sharp fall in public investment in sectors which are key to boosting employment and growth.
this agreement will enable the world markets to strive towards obtaining fair prices for both producers and consumers, while also leading to equitable economic returns and promoting a sustainable cocoa economy.
being the world’s main importer and consumer of cocoa, the european union has a clear role and a responsibility to promote the increased sustainability of a fair cocoa trade in these countries.
this new international cocoa convention which we shall be voting on tomorrow certainly contains very timely measures which improve the previous one, measures such as the development of the producing economies, fair prices for both producers and consumers and a sustainable framework in environmental and social terms.
and finally, the development of a european standard on traceability and sustainability.
the european cocoa industry is the world's leading cocoa industry, and we must urge our processors to demand that they commit themselves to combating child exploitation and to a sustainable and fair cocoa trading chain.
it should also be the industry’s responsibility to ensure that the products they sell are not tainted and use sustainable labour practices.
more specifically in the cocoa sector, the edf cocoa sector support programme effectively contributed to improving the livelihoods of smallholder farmers and making cocoa production more sustainable in ghana.
overall, the agreement aims to bring more transparency and sustainability to an industry on which the lives of 50 million people around the world depend.
in particular, it aims to create the conditions for fairer and more sustainable global trade in cocoa by strengthening international cooperation.
one of the fundamental rules is that of fair prices, so that dumping must be combated with energy and effectiveness.
but they remain worrying: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
in this context, it is necessary to refocus the priorities of the european fisheries fund, mainly towards supporting productive activity - such as the renewal and modernisation of fleets to enhance their sustainability, the improvement of the selectivity of fishing gear and the replacement of engines - and the development of coastal communities.
it is therefore necessary that the 2013 budget forecast is well coordinated and responsible and that the measures taken so far to counter the economic crisis now encourage stable and sustainable growth, including through targeted investments that promote sustainable economic development.
it must be clear from the outset that the budgetary approach cannot avoid the urgency of reviving sustainable growth and quality employment, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
the ad hoc austerity measures already adopted will have to be accompanied by targeted investments that promote sustainable economic development.
− the eu's anti-crisis measures to date have been designed to help restore growth and target investment in order to foster sustainable economic development and job creation.
it is an important step forward as it aims to bring more transparency and sustainability to an industry on which the lives of 50 million people worldwide depend.
in particular, the agreement aims to promote international cooperation in the world cocoa economy; provide an appropriate forum for discussion of all cocoa-related issues between governments and with the private sector; to contribute to the strengthening of the national cocoa economies of the member states; seeking fair prices that generate fair revenues for producers and consumers; to promote an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy; to promote transparency in the operation of the world cocoa economy and the removal of barriers to trade.
i believe that europe must act responsibly to ensure that the world cocoa market is fair, is socially and environmentally sustainable and guarantees a high quality final product, also because we europeans are the world's largest consumers of chocolate.
i also welcome the promotion of cocoa production by small local farms, and i believe that this promotes a quality product and at the same time represents an opportunity for sustainable development for many countries.
it also aims to pursue the objectives of a sustainable cocoa economy and the promotion of cocoa quality, and stresses the need to develop food safety procedures as well as ensuring fair prices and fair revenues.
− more efficiency, but also more transparency and sustainability are a top priority for a sector that employs more than 50 million people worldwide.
as the 2010 agreement aims to create fairer and more sustainable global trading conditions for cocoa by strengthening international cooperation between producers and consumers under the icco framework and improving transparency and sustainability in a sector on which the lives of 50 million people worldwide depend, i am voting in favour of the agreement.
the objective should be to create the conditions for fairer and more sustainable global trade by strengthening international cooperation between producers and consumers within the legal framework of the international cocoa organisation.
this would bring more transparency and sustainability to an industry on which the lives of 50 million people around the world depend.
the merits of this agreement include: recognition of the need to ensure fair prices and fair revenues, while respecting environmentally, economically and socially sustainable policies and transparency schemes, in order to promote the quality of cocoa by developing food safety procedures to protect the final consumer.
this requires the promotion of an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy.
overall, i believe that this agreement can bring greater transparency and sustainability to an industry on which the lives of 50 million people around the world depend.
one is the agreement on establishing a local dialogue on peace, security and stability, and others openings are nigeria’s interest in climate change and rio+20.
the strategy of fundamentalist groups, which, it is true, make a distorted use of religion to gain a chance in terms of control of energy resources, for example, but at the same time, at this moment, find great weakness in response from a government that seems particularly indecisive.
with corruption there is no respect for the environment, there is no free market, there is no opportunity for trade and for young people and therefore in the end there is no democracy either.
− mr president, the 2050 roadmap communication provides a solid basis for discussing the further development of eu climate policies.
i would like to thank in particular the rapporteurs: chris davies from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and mario pirillo from the committee on industry, research and energy.
it sends a very strong message about what this is all about, namely the environment and industry going hand in hand and seeing that this is not harming the potential in europe and is actually something that can enhance our growth.
we just heard chris davies, a liberal, say that financial mechanisms alone are not enough, and often it also takes regulation: that is also a very clear statement and is exactly what the low carbon roadmap is about.
after the second failure of the environment council to adopt council conclusions on the 2050 roadmap, it is even more important that the european parliament gives its support to an ambitious eu climate policy in line with the global requirements, integrating the discussion on the short-term policy needs with the longer-term perspective.
we welcome the report, as it endorses the central findings of the commission’s 2050 roadmap – in particular the interim milestones for domestic greenhouse gas emissions reductions, as set out in the roadmap.
it is of paramount importance that parliament recognises that a gradual, cost-effective transition to a low-carbon economy passes through the milestones for domestic greenhouse gas reductions of 40% by 2030 and 60% by 2040 in order to achieve at least 80% by 2050 as compared to 1990. this is strong guidance for our policy for decades to come.
the report confirms that, if the eu delivers on its current policies – including its commitment to achieve a 20% energy efficiency improvement by 2020 – this would add a further 5% greenhouse gas reduction through domestic action.
while this does not require any change to our current targets for 2020, it shows a very practical and economical way to achieve higher reductions in line with the cost-effective pathway to 2050. the energy efficiency directive will play a vital role here in providing the legal framework for reaching the 20% efficiency target.
the report also recognises that the ets remains the principal instrument of the eu climate policy, though not the only one.
with regard to the risk of carbon leakage, i understand that this is present throughout the report, but the eu has included specific measures in the climate and energy package, as the report also states.
in the commission we fully share the strong focus set on energy efficiency and renewables.
this is key to combining emission reductions, improved energy security and sustainable growth and jobs.
in this respect, the commission urges the council and parliament to reach an agreement on the energy efficiency directive rapidly.
in addition, the commission will soon come forward with a communication considering the eu’s strategy on renewable energy post 2020. we strongly support parliament’s call for enhanced action to reduce emissions in the power, industry, transport and agriculture sectors.
the report affirms that the commission should be proposing ways of ensuring that average co2 emissions from new cars meet the target of not more than 95g/km by 2020. as requested in the existing legislation, the commission will this year produce a proposal to establish the modalities for reaching this target.
furthermore, the commission intends to submit a proposal addressing emissions of hfcs and other fluorinated greenhouse gases in the second half of this year, which is also mentioned in the report.
finally, we also welcome the balanced considerations on competitiveness, research, innovation, growth and jobs in the context of moving to a low-carbon economy, confirming the main conclusions of the commission assessments.
last but not least, we thank you very much for supporting the commission’s proposal for the next multiannual financial framework and the intention to a very substantial degree to mainstream climate action in it.
the commission has proposed to increase the proportion of climate-related expenditure to at least 20% of the whole budget, either directly on climate action or through other policies where climate action is also addressed and where the different initiatives will help us move in a greener direction and the direction of a low carbon economy.
in conclusion, i would encourage the european parliament to adopt the resolution as a further step for developing the appropriate policy framework for the transition to a competitive, energy-secure and resource-efficient low carbon economy.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner hedegaard, the target of reducing co2 emissions by 80-95% by 2050 allows us to lay the foundations for a post-carbon european economy.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, such as the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax.
research will play a central role in making full use of renewable energy, and with clear and binding targets we can prepare the industrial sector for a transition while preserving its global competitiveness.
europe can be proud of having embarked on this path to protect the environment and combat climate change at all levels: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr davies is limited to unilateral, restrictive rules which will have an impact on future climate legislation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the sea by small-scale fishing.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings.
what some green fundamentalists do not want to understand is that pollution is global and that an industry that closes in europe and moves its operations to a country that does not participate in the fight against climate change will pollute more and leave us with so many unemployed.
and there is no unanimity, because just look at the vote in the committee on the environment, this text was passed by only 32 votes in favour, 24 against and 5 abstentions.
the airline industry, in particular, is writing desperate letters to european airlines, these things need to be regulated globally, where is europe going alone, with 12% of emissions?
the industry must be given the necessary incentives to promote investments that can foster economic growth and reduce co2 emissions at the same time.
a low-carbon economy should therefore in no way diminish the european union's competitiveness, but on the contrary should strengthen it.
finally, it is important to support the investments needed to promote the development of renewable energy sources to ensure savings and clean energy.
we need action, not words, the ambition of a true green economy capable of stimulating sustainable growth and development.
− in 2011, the commission presented a strategy paper setting out an ambitious european pathway to reduce greenhouse gas emissions after 2020: reducing emissions by 40% in 2030, 60% in 2040 and reaching a reduction of 80-95% in 2050. this document, in defining a european environmental strategy, has a major impact on the industrial policy of the member states.
the report makes even more stringent demands than those outlined by the commission with more ambitious climate targets by 2020 and binding european targets beyond 2030, irrespective of the achievement of a global climate agreement.
i am against a change in the emission reduction commitments already made for 2020, mainly because the emission reduction commitments made under the 'climate and energy package' approved in 2008 are the result of a long and difficult political negotiation which has allowed a compromise to be reached between member states to distribute efforts fairly and safeguard the competitiveness of the respective sectors involved.
in addition, the european union must not, in pursuing its climate objectives, change the regulatory framework already adopted, risking further penalising european businesses vis-à-vis global partners.
- i voted in favour of the report by mr davies on the roadmap to a low-carbon economy by 2050 because i believe that environmental issues should not be underestimated and should be one of the eu's top priorities.
reducing dependence on fossil fuels is essential to safeguarding the climate and reducing pollution, both to protect the global environment and to protect human health.
only uniform rules can be effective in combating pollution and global warming.
otherwise, we will not only fail, but we will risk being exposed to ruthless competition from economies whose success is based on the very absence of restrictive environmental and social regulations such as ours.
− the need for the international economy to move increasingly towards a production system based on reducing carbon emissions is a requirement imposed on us by the increasingly looming risk of irreversible climate change, as well as by the need to gradually free our production system from the use of exhaustible sources.
this is even more unthinkable in a country like italy, where after almost 30 years of the closure of the power stations, we still have waste that has not been disposed of and where, a short time ago, a new popular consultation reaffirmed the absolute opposition to the reintroduction of nuclear power.
we therefore ask that the right objective, the reduction of emissions and the transition to a renewable energy economy, should not become the pretext for letting a tool that has proved to be unsafe and dangerous, and which the people of europe have therefore chosen to abandon, back through the window.
- the emissions game no longer has the same rules for everyone.
the eu's climate and energy package was adopted with the assurance that other major emitters would make similar commitments, but this has not happened and some major economies have already said that it will not happen in the near future.
furthermore, given that the union's gdp growth has been almost stagnant since the package came into force, unlike in other countries not applying such measures, i believe that the current climate strategy is a factor in the slowdown of economic recovery and that, consequently, the adoption of new and more restrictive very long-term limits, such as those proposed in this report, would risk losing europe the race to be competitive on the global market.
− the environmental challenges facing the planet are urgent and require immediate action.
as the european union we can do a lot to reduce carbon emissions with the international target of an 80% reduction in emissions compared to 1990. in this difficult challenge, all sectors of manufacturing and industrial processing contribute to the 2050 target and to the intermediate targets, as called for in the report, of 2030 and 2040. we are all called upon to do our part, at european level, to make our contribution to reducing carbon emissions in the atmosphere a concrete and achievable goal.
− europe cannot tackle the climate and environmental problems of the entire planet on its own: i think it is absurd that the european union should want to proceed unilaterally, by proposing stricter limits on carbon emissions.
the european union can be an example in meeting the challenge of climate change, but not by acting in this self-destructive way: i think that the commission should use its influence, if it counts for anything, to persuade all the major economies to come together in a common and sensible action in this direction, in defence of our planet and our own future.
− with this vote, the european union will be able to continue to invest in processes that use energy and resources much more efficiently.
the european union will only be able to build and exercise lasting leadership by reducing co2 emissions and substantially increasing the level of investment to create a leading industrial sector.
− while an initiative document, the report responds to a strategy paper from the european commission in march 2011, in which the commission set out an ambitious european pathway to reduce greenhouse gas emissions after 2020: reducing emissions by 40% in 2030, 60% in 2040 and reaching a reduction of 80-95% in 2050. the draft report by john davies intends to make even more stringent demands than those outlined by the european commission, in particular a 25% climate target by 2020 and binding european targets for 2030 and beyond, irrespective of the achievement of a global climate agreement.
the report also argues that the european commission needs to intervene in the current regulatory framework for the emissions trading system by 2020, either by withdrawing emission allowances from the market, or by increasing the annual emission reduction factor at european level.
both measures, if introduced, would in fact change the decisions taken by member states on the european commitment to combat climate change by 2020. with this declaration of vote i wish to express my opposition to more demanding changes to the commitments already made for the reduction of emissions by 2020
in writing.
the climate of renewed violence in nigeria for more than two months now required a firm condemnation by the european union.
the murder of 185 christians on 20 january is cruel testimony to a violent climate that shows no sign of stopping its hatred and which bases its foundations on religious discrimination.
− water is the key to life, a determining factor for economic growth and prosperity, through activities such as agriculture, commercial fisheries, energy production, manufacturing, transport and tourism.
today we are witnessing a real imbalance in ecosystems, which poses a risk not only to the climate regulation that makes the planet work, but a serious danger to human health and the quality of life.
i hope that in the coming days, during the sixth world water forum in marseille, concrete proposals will be discussed with a 'multi-level governance' approach in support of poverty and hunger halving and environmental sustainability.
that is why i think it is very important that the european union presents itself at the next world water forum, to be held in marseille from 12 to 17 march, with a strong common vision, where the issues that the eu has long placed at the top of its agenda are clearly outlined, namely the protection of water resources and greater efficiency (and consequently a reduction in waste) in their use.
− efficient management of the world's water resources has a direct impact on human health, energy production, agriculture and food security, and is a key prerequisite for poverty reduction.
this vote will seek to achieve the un millennium development goals in the field of water and sanitation as soon as possible, taking into account also the relevant outcomes of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development.
in addition, the economy is very weak and environmental protection is neglected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report finally points out the greatest waste of the european parliament, namely the existence of several places of work.
i am sure that further efforts, such as reducing energy costs, launching pilot projects such as the e-committee for paper saving and better management of translation services, will enable us to achieve an increase of 1.9% at the end of the budgetary procedure, including the costs of croatia's accession.
i think that when we talk about sustainable economic performance - and this is what citizens expect - employment, growth, there are a few conditions: the great single market - which is our collective space for economic and social life in common - innovation, investment, but i also think about good governance and social cohesion in companies.
these are the conditions for any sustainable economic performance.
finally, if we really want to have workable sustainability targets, a significant part of wages must also have this connection and thus serve as an incentive to achieve the final goal.
the other part is restoring sustainable growth, boosting job creation and stimulating competiveness to ensure the eu maintains its position in a world economy that is now globalising at high speed.
we are aware that the current economic climate and budgetary shortfalls mean that we must find ways to do more with less.
to promote the europe 2020 strategy of jobs and growth and climate action the commission and the eib have been developing innovative financial instruments, such as loan grant lending and risk sharing mechanisms.
this can create a long-term incentive for capital market investors to invest in this specific project, thus mobilising further resources for sustainable growth and employment in europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome president hoyer and the commission, and as shadow rapporteur i can only welcome the fact that in 2010 the eib increased to 19 billion, from the 16 billion planned, the amount of investment to promote projects in favour of the climate, energy efficiency, renewable energy, transport, forestry and so on.
another positive aspect is that the eib, increasing to 6 billion in 2010, up from 500 million in 2006, has certainly helped renewable energy, a strategic sector for the european union's climate issues.
for the european union, which is both import-dependent and the world's second largest consumer of natural rubber, it is essential to ensure fair, predictable and economically sustainable access to this raw material.
this vote strengthens the international rubber study group, which is the most appropriate body to ensure equitable, predictable and economically sustainable access to rubber in the world.
i believe that the air transport sector needs stricter rules on the protection of consumer rights, in particular i believe that it is essential to pay greater attention to the rights of disabled passengers, who must be guaranteed access to a barrier-free environment, and to the safety of infants, who currently do not have seats adapted to their physical characteristics.
finally, i stress the need for greater transparency in the area of co2 emissions and for better information on passenger rights, because i believe that a right can only be a right if it is recognised by all the citizens concerned.
among the highlights of the resolution is the call on the commission to draw up a standard form for any complaints translated into all the languages of the union; harmonise rules on hand baggage, put an end to unfair commercial practices, unilateral rescheduling of flights and price discrimination based on country of residence; in addition, the environmental impact of the journey should be indicated on the air ticket.
i think it is important, in order to protect workers and ensure a healthy environment for them, which respects the limits of tolerability, in this case, of radiation, not to accept the commission's request for a two-year extension to assess the problems associated with the limits considered too low, but to opt for one year.
the european parliament has therefore chosen to implement a reduction in real terms of its expenditure, a reduction which must of course be seen in the wider context of waste reduction, and which in itself represents only a small step in the desired direction.
- having already argued on other occasions for the need to demonstrate that, in the current climate of austerity, the european institutions must be an example of budgetary responsibility and compliance with spending forecasts, i support this report which, despite some problems still to be resolved, seems to me an acceptable compromise.
the economic waste is due to the maintenance of two virtually twin seats which are both used by part-time members.
in order to take account of the environmental impact, in line with the attention parliament pays to the protection of the ecosystem in its activities, the transport of all the material on the trucks that make the brussels-strasbourg-brussels route once a month, together with the transfers of thousands of people, is certainly a cause of a co2 emission that we could save for european citizens.
the fund will promote 'rooted and sustainable democracy' in pre-transition, transition and post-transition countries, with a particular focus on the european neighbourhood.
they also agree that the fund could help to start projects which can then be continued by the eidhr or geographical tools, creating a programming interface that will ensure coherence and long-term sustainability.
the text outlines the characteristics of the fund, such as identifying potential beneficiaries, providing specific, timely and bottom-up assistance, particularly for the promotion of a sustainable and rooted democracy in countries in transition in the european neighbourhood.
the other main points are well known, and concern telecommunications, energy and the problem of the legal system.
there is an eu-turkey agreement, purely economic in the energy sector, both for supply and transit, but this cannot be enough to allow accession to the eu.
the main challenges for montenegro involve the fight against corruption and organised crime, the reform of its judicial system and public administration, and the creation of sustainable economic development for the country's recovery after the 2009 recession.
nevertheless, montenegro faces important challenges both in adopting and implementing the necessary legislation in order to ensure alignment with the acquis in key areas such as social policy and employment, regional policy, environment, competition, and financial control, as well as free movement of goods, protection of intellectual property, agricultural policy, food security, fisheries, justice, freedom and security.
in addition to ensuring better economic performance and the creation of decent jobs, this sector should be able to take account of social, ethical and environmental considerations in the context of the practices used and to demonstrate responsibility towards workers, shareholders and society as a whole.
the business sector must therefore, in addition to ensuring better economic performance and the creation of decent jobs, be able to take account of social, ethical and environmental considerations and to demonstrate responsibility towards workers, shareholders and society as a whole.
the business sector, in addition to ensuring better economic performance and the creation of decent jobs, should be able to take account of social, ethical and environmental considerations, as well as to demonstrate responsibility towards workers, shareholders and society as a whole.
in 2010, the eib successfully completed its two-year anti-crisis activities by starting to return to pre-crisis lending levels and the governing council, in adopting its new business plan for 2011-13, identified three main priorities, such as support for the europe 2020 strategy, the fight against climate change and support for the union's foreign policy, to which it will devote greater attention.
in particular, i agree with you that it is important to define the effectiveness indicators in qualitative terms in order to achieve a more correct distribution of funding; i underline and promote the commitment of the european investment bank to environmental sustainability and to the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises.
the european union must be more vigilant in ensuring that the directives protecting biodiversity are respected, and must punish any local authorities that do not comply with them.
all of this is very important in creating a cleaner environment and better practices, and in improving confidence regarding cross-border services.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. "
we must also recognize that there has been a strengthening of the strategic role of this country as an eastern partner, particularly in the energy sector.
the aim of the proposal is to harmonize and coordinate the social security systems of the member states in order to protect crossborder workers, but it is forgotten that social policies also include the thorny issue of unemployment benefits and minimum income, on which legislation differs significantly and which are the subject of heated debate, especially in the current economic climate.
− the main objective of cohesion and internal market policy is to organise policy initiatives aimed at smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, promoting a high-employment economy that fosters social and territorial cohesion.
the outermost regions differ from other european regions in that they are characterised by environmental, logistical and social constraints and permanent difficulties, but which can also be exploited as strengths for their small-scale economies.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
however, eu political action in the caucasus region is indispensable to safeguard our own strategic interests (especially in energy supply), to the extent that we cannot avoid reaching agreements with problematic political actors such as azerbaijan itself, which still holds a substantially undisputed primacy in the energy resources of the caspian sea.
as azerbaijan is an important energy supplier for our continent, dialogue must be encouraged and this line of diplomacy maintained to bring ever greater benefits, also in terms of benefits and opportunities for citizens.
in addition, azerbaijan has become a major energy supplier to the european union and a crucial transit country for energy resources, particularly from central asia.
azerbaijan has also become a major energy supplier to the european union and a crucial transit country for energy resources, particularly from central asia.
at the same time, the union itself is an important energy market for azerbaijan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is all very well to defend and protect the environment, but i would like to know how far we are going to go.
the price of energy products in many countries has reached historic highs, as in italy, where filling up your car has become a real chore.
i do not think that the european union can afford this situation, which would bring many strategic production sectors to their knees and would ultimately result in higher energy and fuel bills.
in italy, the monti government is also considering introducing a "carbon tax" at the national level.
i think we must have a balanced attitude, so we support the rapporteur's line, we want the amendments she has proposed to be adopted, precisely because it is possible to give the whole of europe the chance not only of having a better environment, but of having that better environment while continuing to compete with the other great world powers, otherwise we will make our proposals unreliable to the citizens, and the citizens will punish us, considering all our positions to be abstract.
one of the aims of the amendment of this directive is to introduce a taxation component linked to co2 emissions in order to favour less polluting products from a tax perspective.
however, the commission's proposal - by requiring member states to tax products used for the same purpose at the same rates and by eliminating the possibility of exemption for certain products - is likely to have the only effect of unsustainably increasing the tax burden on those fuels and fuels which are actually helping to reduce environmental pollution.
the same applies to natural gas and methane: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only more environmentally friendly but also more environmentally friendly.
i therefore hope that the principle of proportionality of excise duties will be abolished, so that member states can have the flexibility to set the level of taxation according to their energy policy.
it will facilitate the implementation of important transport and environment infrastructure, as well as other economic infrastructure projects which will provide a much-needed boost to economic activity and job creation in greece.
the commission expects that a significant number of projects will be in the environment sector, including renewable energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union and its member states have always been promoters of sustainable development and the protection of both the environment and human health.
taxation of co2 emissions is a cost-effective way for member states to achieve greenhouse gas reductions within the parameters of decision no 406/2009/ec of the european parliament and of the council.
i support the proposal put forward by mr lulling on the need to ensure the optimal functioning of the market, particularly in the context of the new requirements relating to the fight against climate change, the use of renewable energy sources and energy saving.
we must ensure that energy sources are treated in the same way so that consumers are treated fairly, regardless of the source used.
the agreements approved today are an important step forward in promoting sustainable timber trade, but also in raising public awareness of the issue.
− in addition to being a partnership tool to improve forest management standards, sustainability and accountability, the voluntary partnership agreement can make a positive contribution to the overall development and growth of the central african republic.
in addition to providing a partnership instrument to enable liberia to halt illegal deforestation and forest degradation, which contribute to climate change, the voluntary partnership agreement should enhance market opportunities for timber products in europe and other international markets.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
− in the member states most affected by the economic and financial crisis, several strategic projects selected for co-financing under cohesion policy programmes risk not being implemented because private sector investors and banks do not have the liquidity to lend to projects and project promoters, or because they are no longer willing to bear the investment risks in the current environment.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
- the european union has a responsibility to promote responsible and sustainable energy policies, and i have therefore decided to express my favourable opinion on the report on the taxation of energy products, which prescribes a series of measures to promote energy efficiency and reduce co2 emissions.
i also believe that the amendments adopted by parliament have brought about a considerable improvement in the commission's proposal, and i particularly stress the importance of abolishing the article which would have required member states, in order to ensure tax neutrality, to standardize the rates of energy sources used for the same purpose.
the greater energy efficiency of diesel engines is also scientifically proven, and for these reasons it is necessary to be able to maintain a favourable tax regime for diesel.
- i welcome the report by mrs lulling on a proposal for a reform of the taxation system for energy products.
the road freight transport sector would face serious challenges with the increase in the price of diesel as a consequence of the co2 emissions reduction target in the sector.
the environmental sustainability of road transport is already guaranteed by strict legislation in force and companies in the sector are already required to pay for emissions in accordance with precise community and international obligations.
- although a legislative consultation procedure, the revision of the directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity has proved to be an extremely sensitive subject.
the tax provides for the same mandatory minimum rate of taxation on energy products in all member states, which in turn will tax the various products proportionally, depending on the energy value and the co2 emission coefficient.
the imposition of rates in the same proportion for all products would, however, reduce national sovereignty to a minimum, limiting the area of manoeuvre of the states with negative consequences in the energy sector in which each country is specialised, inflation risk, damage to businesses and consumers.
the proposal for a directive adapts the structure of energy taxation in order to support the objective of a low-carbon economy that is equally energy efficient and to avoid problems in the internal market.
the proposal aims to bring the latter in line with the eu's commitments to combat climate change.
− i voted in favour of this document because i consider it to be an important contribution to the europe 2020 strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i think the commission's methodological approach to taxing energy on a double basis, that of co2 emissions and that of energy content, is correct.
the energy taxes will be partly linked to co2 emissions and partly to energy content.
the energy tax structure will thus be designed to support the objective of a low-carbon economy that is equally energy efficient.
the proposal also aims to bring energy taxation into line with the eu's commitments to combat climate change by introducing a co2-related element in energy taxation.
- in view of the current economic crisis, the european parliament should send a strong signal by voting against the report on the taxation of energy products and electricity which envisages an increase in minimum excise duties in europe for all energy sources.
this proposal is an environmental contradiction, since it favours renewable energy sources over 'clean' gases such as methane and biomethane.
if the price of energy were to rise, what sad fate would befall small and mediumsized industries, the real engine of the economy?
in italy, where the cost of energy is higher than the european average, a further increase in prices would be detrimental to our businesses.
the idea of raising the cost of energy by about 80% by 2023 by taxes alone is an unsustainable burden on citizens.
- i voted in favour of mr lulling's report on the taxation of energy products and electricity because i fully share its key principles, namely to achieve an alignment of energy taxation provisions with the environmental objectives set within the europe 2020 strategy and to reduce distortions in the internal market between the member states of the union.
the community framework for the taxation of energy products must be as consistent as possible with the union's environmental policies.
we cannot allow further increases in diesel prices at a time when, for fiscal reasons due to austerity measures, the prices of energy products are under constant pressure.
the purpose of this legislation is to align energy taxation provisions with the environmental objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy and to reduce distortions in the internal market in relation to the current difference between eu member states in energy taxation levels and scope.
these objectives are essentially achieved by dividing the current taxation of energy products into two components: a carbon tax component, based on the level of emissions, which would have the specific objective of reducing co2 emissions not captured by the ets covering only 50% of co2 emissions (small installations, services, agriculture, transport, heating) and an energy tax component, based on energy content (fixed rates per gj regardless of the energy product).
in voting this morning i wanted to remove the obligation for member states to reproduce a fixed ratio between the minimum levels of taxation applied to the different energy products ('chained excise duties' or 'proportionate excise duties') which would have led not only to a sharp increase in the prices of certain energy products but also to the gradual disappearance of certain industrial sectors.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very important one.
the longevity of the monumental olive trees is of extreme importance, also from the ecological, economic and productive point of view for the region.
ecological, because to keep these crops viable and productive means to intervene in the hydrogeological defense of eroded territories, economic and productive because this represents one of the largest revenues of the region: in puglia alone, there are 1200 olive presses working 53 varieties of olive oil of undeniable value and quality.
i hope that in this implementation of the 2012 budget we can now rediscover the excellent climate of cooperation, especially between the commission and parliament, which was decisive in closing the budget and which will be even more important in supporting its implementation.
there is also the real problem of management being delegated to the fusion for energy joint undertaking.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change is essential to the survival of the earth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the awareness of the links between gender policies and climate change has only recently developed and has not yet led to a genuine integration of gender in climate policies.
the international situation is not favourable at the moment, and the risk of failure to reach an international agreement on climate change is high.
i believe that gender mainstreaming is an opportunity to be able to fight climate change better, fairly and effectively.
improving the understanding of the relationship between climate change and women through a disaggregated data collection system helps to identify areas of intervention, to save energy and water resources that women consume differently than men to meet family needs.
i hope that the link between gender and climate can be effectively integrated into the european union's programmes and not just into individual policies.
climate change affects all spheres of human activity and must therefore be integrated horizontally into the projects and financial activities of the european union.
the kiil-nielsen report focuses on the integration of gender issues with climate change and i confess that, despite the admirable efforts of the rapporteur, i have not been able to understand these direct links very well, but i certainly can fully share the objectives of this report, the wider objectives of this report, which are to try to achieve a society in which differences are no longer accepted.
i believe that the kiil-nielsen report can be an effective denunciation of this state of affairs and an important tool perhaps for activating that arsenal of instruments to which commissioner potočnik referred, to integrate gender issues into all policies, because if it is true that climate change certainly has a greater effect on the most vulnerable and marginalised groups, such as women in some cases, it is also true that the issue of women must be re-proposed in a transversal way in all union policies and in all national policies.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by stressing that no country can tackle the problem of biodiversity loss on its own, and that the governments of the member states must cooperate with each other.
i call on the commission to review the maximum sustainable yield taking into account all aspects of the fish stocks, in particular size, age, reproductive status, and to address the issue of stocks composed of different species.
i would point out that the achievement of the six objectives of the new eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 depends on compliance with the union's already defined standards and the proper management of the relevant initiatives and programmes, in particular the natura 2000 network of protected areas and the life+ programme.
finally, i would like to emphasize that the decisive element of the european union's commitment is in the future reforms of the common policies, agriculture and fisheries, as well as in the multiannual financial framework, and i would point out that the failure of the first strategy is due to the fact that the protection of biodiversity has not been sufficiently integrated into the policies of the european union.
i believe that this seventh environmental action programme can certainly be a useful instrument, but only if it is based on a vision of the future which takes account of the need to maintain a solid european industrial base, which is essential to maintain a decent and acceptable level of employment.
i believe that a top priority is that this programme ensures the most effective implementation of the regulations already in place, before any further binding targets are set, and i am deeply convinced that to meet today's environmental challenges we must build future environmental policies on sound evidence, on the most up-to-date scientific knowledge.
i am concerned about paragraph 24 which speaks of the 'ecological footprint' as an absolute indicator; it is an indicator, an empirical model of reality, not reality itself, and we must bear that in mind.
this has many limitations, it tells us how much we are affecting the environment, but it does not at all estimate for example the quality of the environment, so my concerns remain and i invite everyone to take them into account.
− the iter project is of particular importance within the programme for a greener and more sustainable europe, a key objective of the europe 2020 strategy.
i fully share the views expressed in mr balzani's report and believe that the project for the construction of the power station in the south of france will help to produce clean energy on a large scale without releasing harmful and polluting emissions into the environment.
by adopting this text, in the light of the commission communication entitled 'europa 2020 - a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth' and its resolution of 21 september 2010 on the completion of the internal market for electronic commerce, parliament wishes to emphasise that, despite further progress in digital and further modernisation of the sector, member states must take into account the basic needs of ordinary citizens, in particular young people or people without education, disabilities or access to the internet, in order to ensure equal access to a quality public service for all eu citizens.
the disparities in the levels of infrastructure development between and within member states must also be eliminated in order to ensure the demographic sustainability of sparsely populated regions.
i welcome the signing of the framework agreement, which sets out a series of steps to restore constitutional order, and i believe that the aim should be to strengthen state institutions, to promote the active participation of citizens in decision-making processes and to lay the foundations for sustainable and equitable economic development.
− climate change is a sphere of issues, such as global warming, which require the widest possible study and consideration in order to adopt and shape effective responses.
in particular, the relationships between gender and climate change appear to be strong and closely related.
women consume energy in different ways and at different times than men, yet they are not involved in the same way in decision-making processes concerning strategies to reduce pollution, protect the environment and combat waste.
this means that consumption patterns vary between women and men and that women consume more sustainably than men and are more willing to take action to protect the environment by making sustainable consumption choices.
the vote aims to mainstream gender issues into strategies for preventing and managing risks associated with natural disasters, and to promote women's empowerment and awareness through capacity building before, during and after climate disasters.
− the conservation of biodiversity is not only a moral obligation for future generations, but also of intrinsic economic and social importance.
what is missing for biodiversity conservation is not new programmes, policy statements or instructions for use, but action.
it is also of the utmost importance to integrate the biodiversity strategy into the eu's forthcoming reform processes (e.g.
fisheries, agricultural, energy and cohesion policies).
the eu and its member states have so far spent less than 0.004% of their economic capacity on global measures to safeguard and promote biodiversity: it is necessary that member states begin to understand the importance of integrating natural capital into their public accounts.
i therefore hope that the next multiannual financial framework will provide for the availability of adequate financial instruments to help prevent the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services in the eu.
− the protection of biodiversity must be restored as one of the objectives of the european union in the field of environmental protection and, more broadly, of economics and food security.
the cap is already an important instrument for protecting biodiversity.
preserving biodiversity and ecosystems should be a top eu policy priority.
the data show a steady decline in biodiversity in the eu, a loss that has a high economic cost.
according to economists, 3% of gdp is lost every year due to biodiversity loss.
− i believe that achieving the targets set in the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 is crucial, as it offers the opportunity to take the necessary steps to protect nature and ensure ecosystem services for future generations.
the most important challenge is to integrate biodiversity into all other policy areas.
− the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 offers the opportunity to take the necessary steps to protect nature and ensure ecosystem services for future generations.
the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy, common fisheries policy and the european roadmaps for energy, transport and resource efficiency will soon be transposed into legislation.
it is necessary to demonstrate that biodiversity claims are much more than just promises and must be reflected in concrete policy measures.
the value of biodiversity and ecosystem services must be integrated into our economies.
− the united nations has declared the period 2010-2020 the 'decade for biodiversity'.
biodiversity is essential for the existence of human life and for the well-being of societies, both directly and indirectly, through the ecosystem services it provides.
climate change, biodiversity loss, the threats posed by invasive species and the overexploitation of natural resources are transnational and transregional challenges affecting every citizen of the european union, whether living in urban or rural areas.
the vote in favour underlines the urgent need for action and the need to give greater priority to this area in order to achieve the eu's key biodiversity target for 2020 and to respect international commitments on the subject.
the preservation of biodiversity is a collective challenge that must be tackled with the commitment and involvement of the various stakeholders.
- i voted in favour of this document because i believe that a high level of environmental protection is one of the essential conditions for ensuring the quality of life and preserving the stability of ecosystems.
protecting our environment improves the quality of life, stops biodiversity loss, ensures better water quality and less noise pollution.
− the sixth environment action programme is almost at the end of its ten-year planning period, which has resulted in the achievement of a number of global environmental policy objectives.
a seventh environment programme has become necessary to achieve existing objectives in line with the europe 2020 strategy, such as strengthening environmental legislation and recognising an international dimension to environmental protection.
protecting our environment increases the quality of life, in particular by safeguarding ecosystems and their services, halting biodiversity loss, ensuring better water quality and noise pollution, creating jobs and growth, and ensuring the well-being of present and future generations.
the fight against climate change, the protection of the environment, the defence of biodiversity must be done on a global scale.
− environmental degradation, due to air pollution, noise, chemicals, poor water quality and deterioration of the ecosystem, is a major factor in the increase in chronic diseases.
given the current sustainability challenges facing the european union, environmental action programmes, as comprehensive instruments, help to ensure the necessary coordination between the different union policies.
over the next decade, it will be even more essential to tackle environmental issues with a more coherent and integrated approach that takes account of the links between the different issues and that fills the gaps that still exist, as otherwise irreversible damage could be caused.
the vote therefore underlines that the seventh environment action programme must provide the necessary readability and predictability for national and local administrations, citizens, businesses and investors in relation to the environmental choices of the european union.
environmental legislation will therefore have to be implemented and strengthened, environmental objectives integrated into all sectoral policies and environmental protection given an international dimension.
it is precisely this particular attention to the mediterranean that i would like the commission to pay, both in terms of environmental aspects and in terms of economic transactions in the mediterranean.
this would be good for european fisheries, it would be good for the sea, it would be good for the environment, it would make this rift less and less divided and more and more a homogeneous place on which to build the future of europe and of this new world.
we will take all necessary actions to further improve the edf’s financial management, securing the effectiveness and sustainability of the eu’s support, which is badly needed by the acp countries.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, regional airports are important for better connecting europe and for enabling its citizens to move within the union, but these structures must be built and must operate in accordance with the environmental standards set by the union itself.
we cannot allow air traffic, and with it regional airports, to go further at the expense of the european environment, the quality of our air and the integrity of our territory.
it is good to have more air connections in europe, but not at the expense of the environment, the air and the territory of europe itself.
- in a globalised market environment and in the light of the recent opening up of the so-called 'arab spring' countries, it is most appropriate and necessary to pay attention to illegal trade practices such as dumping, in order to protect european businesses.
- the economic crisis in europe is such that more decisive action is needed to defend our industry and our small and mediumsized enterprises, especially when they are subject to dumping or other unfair behaviour by economic operators from countries where the rule of law does not apply and where the protection of social and environmental rights is de facto non-existent.
the full development of these airports is essential both to guarantee the freedom of movement mentioned above and to promote the economic development of the areas where these airports are located, since their expansion would also help to alleviate the congestion problem of hub airports and, consequently, to make the transport system more sustainable also from an environmental point of view.
this is an unjustified trend affecting airports which already face obstacles from the environmental impact of air traffic, congestion and competition from larger airports.
we therefore call for greater commitment to the development of sesar and the single european sky, as their completion could lead to major economic and environmental savings through increased efficiency and would allow some small regional airports to benefit from new investment and technology.
we must ensure that in times of economic crisis, when every member state is called upon to make economic austerity, the eu uses its resources carefully and minimises waste and fraud.
for 21 agencies, discharge was proposed and for 3 agencies, discharge was deferred: the european medicines agency in london (among others because of the refusal to set up a new payment system), the european food safety authority in parma (due to the need for drastic cuts in expenditure for board meetings, as well as conflicts of interest of staff and board members) and the european environment agency in copenhagen (due to conflicts of interest).
the report also quantifies the enormous waste associated with maintaining the european parliament's strasbourg seat, whose cost in 2010 is over eur 50 million, while the estimated savings from the definition of a single seat are around eur 180 million.
the waste of public money is never tolerable, but it is even more odious in times of recession such as the present one, when the states are forced to ask for sacrifices from their taxpayers.
i expressed my support for the report on the discharge for the 2010 european parliament budget, hoping that the relevant institutions would make an effort to reduce or eliminate this and other waste.
the application of exorbitant tariffs for international roaming services, in a climate of poor transparency and information on costs, is probably due to the fact that the device market has developed very rapidly in relation to the evolution of the operator system and above all the maturation of a modern business culture.
− the european union plays a crucial role in environmental policy at european level.
such synergy will certainly lead to more accurate and reliable documentation of the possible impacts on human health or the environment resulting from the use of hazardous chemicals in the importing country or another exporting country.
some of these substances, however, can be very harmful to health and the environment.
the eu should continue to play a leading role in environmental legislation, ensuring the health of citizens and the environment.
− the european union is playing a leading role in environmental legislation and should continue to do so.
it is the union's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals we export do not cause unnecessary damage to human health or the environment.
moving from an honest analysis of the mistakes that have prevented decisive action in the past to stabilise the area, to the benefit of tactical visions that are relevant to bilateral and sphere policies, it recognises the need to relaunch the creation of the free trade area as an expression of the eu's external policy action, to involve the eib and the ebrd (with the extension of the mandate), to promote global ftas, to support the construction of legal, administrative, financial and civil frameworks and systems that are relevant to a business-friendly environment and to strengthen the middle class which is the indispensable factor in the difficult equation towards the development of models of complete and stable democracy.
in all the countries where elections were held, which were more or less free, the parties of muslim religious fundamentalist inspiration were very successful, and thus influenced the political and social climate.
- authors such as w. bernstein and niall ferguson explain how large international trade has reorganized itself along sea routes: the european union has a duty to protect its citizens and to protect the environment.
the motive for the act is still unknown but it is clear that it is part of a growing climate of tension and insecurity caused by the crisis, which organizations or individuals may be tempted to exploit for violent subversion.
we must be able to detect early signs of violent radicalisation, of the disruption of the social climate and of violent extremism.
joint action by the judiciary is vital in europe to combat and strengthen crime and terrorism, as is the fight against corruption and environmental, economic and corporate crime.
this includes financial services, energy, transport, telecommunications and the digital market.
we have set up a working group across the commission services on the exchange of best practices across member states and long-term solutions and appropriate non-policy solutions that better target vulnerability in the area of energy.
in addition to the urgent measures which i shall mention below, we also need far-sighted measures to address the human capital of young europeans, to tell them that an entrepreneurial culture and spirit is not just a personal adventure, a career or a success, but is also useful to society because it builds on a widespread model of entrepreneurial development, and creates conditions for more equitable and sustainable growth, as mrs krehl has already said, because we want development that is innovative, capable of seizing all the new opportunities together, but also environmentally and socially sustainable.
the council's deliberations are answered by parliament's practical proposals, which are aimed in the right direction: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection.
we are entering a new environment because it is as a result of the treaty of lisbon that we can now begin to speak of european criminal law.
the house also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'contract' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
mr president, the single market was conceived as a key instrument to put europe back on the path to sustainable growth and full employment.
- the most recent attack, of an as yet undefined origin, on the school in brindisi has further strengthened my inclination to vote in favour of this draft report on the 'strategy for internal security', as i believe it is of the utmost importance to consolidate a sustainable european security model, in which security is the necessary prerequisite for the free exercise of rights.
this would allow for the creation of a european social context in which citizens feel on a daily basis that they live in an environment made even safer by the operational collaboration between eu agencies dealing with security: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
the strategy for a 'european security model', which is also being discussed by the new parliamentary committee on organised crime, is inspired by the terrorist and mafia threats against which the eu needs principles and safeguards to create a safe social environment in which citizens are perceived positively in dealing with everyday life situations.
i am not addressing the house here, of course, but the citizens, the european businesses: the european union is the world's largest consumer of energy.
ladies and gentlemen, we must act now, vote on these texts with the council and create the conditions, the ecosystem that businesses - especially the smallest and mediumsized ones - and consumers need for their action and for the investments that mr swoboda spoke about earlier, or the green growth that mrs rebecca harms spoke about.
i also share the prevailing view of those who say that taking fiscal consolidation on the one hand and sustainable growth on the other, and setting them against each other is really a false debate.
instead – in order to overcome the crisis and return to sustainable growth – we need to stay the course on fiscal consolidation while at the same time pursuing structural reforms which will enhance competitiveness, support the creation of more jobs and stimulate public and private investment that will give the needed extra fuel to our economic engine.
as far as this parliament is concerned, we already have close cooperation on the internal market, the energy efficiency directive and the eu's multiannual financial framework.
certainly, the correct, rational and sustainable management of fisheries makes much, much more sense.
in these weeks, with some colleagues - mr daul, president of the ppe group, mr guerreiro, vice-president of the socialist group, mr susta and mr moscardini - we have been drawing up written declaration no 16, which is intended to base our trade policy on a few key words: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of consumers.
these are not slogans but values which, as this report shows, if put into practice in our trade relations, are the best way forward not only to sustainable trade but also to a less unbalanced and happier china.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the definition of the bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean has been, as you know, a very controversial and debated subject, mainly because of the difficulty of finding the right balance between tuna harvesting and environmental sustainability.
in this respect, we must not forget, especially in a time of crisis such as the present one, that while it is important to protect biological resources by strengthening measures to protect tuna, it is equally important to ensure that employment levels are safeguarded and that the entire fisheries sector is socially and economically sustainable.
the relocation of many businesses, encouraged by the lack of labour and environmental legislation, has led to the loss of many jobs in europe at the expense of our citizens.
the european union is founded on a number of fundamental values: for example, we rightly ask our companies to respect the environment.
it is the imbalance of social and environmental dumping that some of these chinese goods are produced with.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union must re-launch the protection of bluefin tuna, a predator of the utmost importance for the maintenance of the mediterranean sea ecosystem.
in approving this report, parliament, in the light of article 294 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in the light of the report of the committee on transport and tourism, has taken a position to ensure the protection of the environment and to learn from past mistakes by proposing to reduce the risks of accidental pollution by hydrocarbons in european waters by means of the accelerated introduction of double-hulls.
- i voted in favour of this document because the ecological disasters of recent years have made it clear that a substantial change in the existing legislation is needed.
the question of the accelerated introduction of double-hull or equivalent technology standards for oil tankers which are now single-hull is of great importance in ensuring adequate protection of the marine and coastal environment.
the environmental damage which has been caused for decades by the lack of double hulls in many ships, which would prevent oil spills, is now intolerable.
black tides caused by oil tanker sinkings are a major ecological disaster, a tragedy for marine fauna and flora.
the vote will seek to reduce the risk of pollution from oil tankers.
the new regulation aims to reduce the risks of accidental oil pollution in european waters by accelerating the introduction of double hulls.
if this plate is damaged by collision or by freezing, the contents of the cargo tanks may spill into the sea and cause serious pollution.
it is important to promote sustainable fishing practices by ensuring that all fishing activities carried out under the fisheries partnership agreement meet the same sustainability criteria as those for fisheries in european union waters.
the project aims to promote responsible and sustainable fishing and to promote a partnership relationship based on respect for the legal and regulatory provisions in force in the european union and in mozambique, in the interest of both parties.
− one of the objectives of the european union and mozambique is to strengthen economic, scientific and technical cooperation in the fisheries sector and in all related areas, in order to establish a partnership framework that allows the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, in the interests of both parties.
the european union and mozambique also aim to strengthen economic, scientific and technical cooperation in the fisheries sector and in all related areas, in order to establish a partnership framework that will enable the development of a sustainable and responsible fisheries policy.
if it is inevitable that countries define themselves in relation to each other in bilateral relations, this is all the more true for china, whose internal tensions are intertwined with foreign and security policy, trade policy, energy policy and monetary policy.
this objective must be pursued not only through some fundamental principles that make trade balances sustainable, which are certainly important, but above all through support for the eu's production systems, to make them more competitive on a world scale.
mr president, i do not repeat what has already been said about the territorial dispute and the energy issue at the root of the conflict.
it reaffirms the political importance of the resource efficiency agenda and the urgency of the need to take action in order to respond to the economic and environmental challenges we face.
without new policies we will put even more pressure on the environment, we will not deliver on our climate change targets, and we will expose our economy and well-being to systemic risks.
sustainable resource use is the condition for the long-term resilience and competitiveness of our economies.
the commission has laid out its vision for the path to sustainable growth and competitiveness in the long-term strategies under the europe 2020 resource efficiency flagship initiative, ranging from energy to transport to climate, water and biodiversity.
with the roadmap to a resource efficient europe we have put on the table a coherent framework to achieve the 2050 vision of sustainability.
we address consumption and production, emphasise the importance of measures such as eco-design, and highlight the importance of research and innovation, and the crucial need to phase out inefficient subsidies and shift to environmental taxation.
turning waste into a valuable resource is key to boosting the resource productivity of the eu economy and also enhancing growth.
full implementation of eu waste legislation alone would save eur 72 billion a year, increase the annual turnover of the eu waste management and recycling sector by eur 42 billion and create over 400 000 jobs by 2020. secondly, the nature target.
we should try to ensure that our natural capital and the ecosystem services this provides are used efficiently in the short and long term, as they are the foundation of our economy and our quality of life.
thirdly, we target the economic sectors that are responsible for the greatest share of environmental impacts – namely food, buildings and mobility.
integration of resource efficiency into the european semester will ensure that member states are moving along a sustainable path.
we will also launch a process to define the appropriate targets with solid, effective and science-based indicators with a view to agreeing on a lead indicator, a dashboard and thematic indicators by 2013. naturally, we also need the full implementation of european union environmental legislation, coupled with actions at international level to ensure a level global playing field.
there is no doubt that, in the context of the external dimension of the european union, trade in environmental goods and services is a particularly important instrument for sustainable economic and social development.
in particular, the opening up of markets to goods and services and other energy performance plays a role in europe's conscious growth in exports, in the creation of new jobs linked to the spread of new green technologies, in innovation and competitiveness for enterprises, starting with small and medium-sized ones.
in our opinion we have stated the importance of certain essential elements in future bilateral, multilateral and regional european agreements: the reduction or elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade in environmental goods and services; the inclusion of a chapter on sustainability; the commission has also proposed that the community should introduce tariff preferences for environmental goods and services produced under the generalised system of preferences, including simplification of procedures.
the european union must maintain its global leadership in environmental protection and promote, through trade, the use of green goods, services and technologies in third countries for truly sustainable global growth.
we must, commissioner, in particular with regard to third countries, encourage the conclusion of trade agreements consistent with the energy efficiency measures proposed to guarantee a truly decisive and intelligent growth of the european union.
the main issues dealt with by parliament are almost exclusively environmental issues.
the transfer of these companies also leads to a worsening of atmospheric emissions as they are no longer subject to the already strict european limits.
our citizens are being duped twice: we are losing jobs and increasing emissions into the environment.
mr president, what we are discussing - the protection of the environment in conjunction with economic growth - is certainly a central theme, which is widely agreed upon at all levels.
much has already been said; i am concerned, for example, about the shift of taxation from labour to the environment.
i do not think it is our job to tell our citizens whether or not to eat animal protein, and i think it is important that the european parliament has spoken out against food waste, since some 20 per cent of food is thrown away as waste.
as the commission points out, at the current rate of resource exploitation, it will take the equivalent of two earths to support the world's population in 2050. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
member states must remove any obstacles to the recycling and reuse of waste market and provide for economic incentives to promote innovative technologies for the collection and separation of waste.
it is right to achieve zero waste, by prohibiting landfilling and phasing out the incineration of recyclable waste.
the land footprint, the water footprint, the material footprint and the carbon footprint.
these indicators should be used to promote legislative initiatives for sustainable development and reduction of resource exploitation.
smart, sustainable and inclusive growth are three key objectives for developing a knowledge-based and innovation-driven economy, while promoting a high-employment economy that fosters social and territorial cohesion.
- the transition to the green economy, in addition to being a transition to a low-carbon economy with a lower environmental impact, is a bright light for our companies, especially those that have invested large sums of money in the conversion of their production to support the environment and those that have focused on innovative technologies and the production of eco-friendly products.
a recent study by wwf italy estimated that with a billion euro in sustainable infrastructure and environmental programmes, 29 000 jobs could be created in agriculture.
with a more targeted investment of the same amount in the renewable energy sector, this would increase to 52,700 or 25,900 in the energy saving sectors, mainly buildings.
the call for the abolition of landfills with limited deadlines, in fact, on the one hand, meets the renewed need to respect the guidelines of the europe 2020 strategy; on the other hand, it does not take account of the development of the waste disposal process in certain european regions, such as sicily, which could not comply with the new obligations and thus incur heavy financial penalties.
parliament committed itself to pursuing the objective of improving the use of raw materials and energy and to promoting a low-impact economy with targeted investment and innovative technologies in order to achieve a less intensive and more impactful economy by 2050. recycling, research and innovation, public and private investment and a competitive market are the basis of this project, to which we must all commit ourselves day by day, listening to the demands of our citizens.
the resolution calls for the phasing out of landfills and calls on the commission to submit proposals by the end of 2014. it should also review the recycling targets for 2020 set out in the waste framework directive and ensure that the incineration of recyclable and compostable waste is phased out by the end of the decade.
the commission is therefore invited to propose an update of the ecodesign directive to include non-energy products and to call for greater durability, recyclability and repairability of goods.
the labelling should also provide consumers with information on resource use and environmental impact.
with europe's population expected to double by 2050, it is urgent to decouple economic growth from resource use, and to encourage citizens to play an active role in sustainable consumption, waste reduction and waste collection and sorting.
− in the light of the effects of the economic crisis and the high environmental awareness of the public, i believe that it is appropriate to rapidly implement the measures needed to achieve the objective of greater efficiency in the use of all resources (primarily raw materials and energy), to promote the transition to a low-carbon economy and to encourage the use of eco-friendly products (by promoting the use of recycled materials and extending the application of eco-design criteria) and investment in innovative technologies (both for the production of goods and services and for the reduction of polluting emissions).
in the medium term (by 2020), i believe that they should lay the foundations for completing the transition from the current resource-intensive economy to a more technologically advanced economy with a lower environmental impact, with greater energy security and employment (through the creation of high value-added jobs) by 2050. this transition should be accompanied by a system of tax incentives and disincentives, aimed at shifting tax burdens from labour to the use of resources/raw materials, ideally to the benefit of employment.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the year.
− in view of the restrictions applied in various areas by the swiss authorities to eu citizens or entities, it is essential for eu-swiss relations and for the future development of swiss participation in the single market that there is a regulatory framework that ensures a more transparent and predictable environment for economic operators on both sides.
in this case it means not closing the door and negotiating with japan measures that allow the removal of non-tariff barriers, bilateral safeguards for sensitive sectors - and we can strengthen these safeguards - the protection of geographical indications for our products, the removal of barriers that today hinder trade, in particular for our small and mediumsized enterprises which could instead find an extraordinary additional market in japan, the opening of japanese public procurement to our companies including smes, a mechanism for adjudicating trade disputes which today is difficult to achieve, and also cooperation in the field of energy after fukushima based on sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
we are talking about 27 conventions to be respected, including the un convention on climate change.
the so-called gsp+ linked to the implementation of the main international conventions on social, human and environmental rights is a good one.
we would also like to recognise the important contribution of volunteering to environmental protection and support volunteering activities in the fields of environmental education, emergency prevention and management, and the protection of artistic and cultural heritage.
the amendment is based on the concept of sustainable discipline and gives the commission the task of prioritising investment for growth and jobs when setting medium-term objectives and assessing member states' budgets.
i think it is very important to increase awareness of volunteering in the fields of cultural heritage, the environment and sport and to provide that in european calls for proposals volunteering work can be considered as part-financing for the purpose of access to these calls.
from major sporting events to cultural events, the role of volunteers is crucial, and not to be overlooked is the work of those who rush to provide help and solidarity in the event of major natural or environmental disasters.
cross-border volunteering is an inexhaustible source of learning and personal growth, contributing to the development of an economically and ecologically sustainable social consciousness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from communications to finance, transport, energy, culture and health, the role of technology is becoming increasingly important.
i supported mrs kalfin's proposal because i believe that the potential of the web, both in terms of innovation and growth for european businesses, cannot be lost, especially in a highly competitive environment such as the one that exists today at global level.
the fact that the european union is one of the largest purchasers of energy on global markets can in fact be considered a factor of weakness.
i therefore share the approach taken and proposed by my colleague, particularly on the three objectives underlying the whole strategy, namely improvement and coordination at european union level, particularly in strategic areas such as research and innovation, the need for greater diversification of energy supplies and, finally, the development of common sustainable policies on a global scale.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because only a harmonized and coherent approach by the member states can make it possible to promote europe's energy objectives effectively outside the community.
better cooperation on energy policy is now needed if the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the roadmap to a low-carbon economy in 2050 are to be achieved.
the commission will be able to take account of the need to ensure that the community's energy supply is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
in this context, effective coordination with industry is essential to promote in practice those investments which can promote economic growth and development and at the same time ensure clean and secure energy.
the challenge is open and europe must be able to play its part in ensuring sustainable competitiveness in our energy market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change, the constant increase in environmental pollution, industrialisation and the progressive increase in population are all posing global energy challenges.
i believe that it is useful to act by strengthening the external dimension of the european union's energy policy, by taking a clear position on the diversification of energy sources and routes.
i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe it is essential to ensure security of supply and at the same time to promote sustainable production and consumption.
i hope, however, that in future there will be greater coordination between the policies of the member states, as well as joint action and solidarity in the field of external energy policy and energy security.
the importance of transparency and the completion of the internal energy market in this respect must be recognised.
i would remind you that the solidarity fund is mainly intended to help in the event of a major natural disaster which has a serious impact on the living conditions, the environment or the economy of one or more regions of a member state.
i would remind you that the solidarity fund is mainly intended to help in the event of a major natural disaster which has a serious impact on the living conditions, the environment or the economy of one or more regions of a member state.
− the eu's development cooperation policy plays a key role in achieving the millennium development goals and international commitments on human rights, food security and environmental sustainability.
we have made steady progress in advancing relations with the countries of central america, with the activation of the eu-lac foundation, with the launch of an investment instrument for latin america and with the extremely important dialogues on climate change, innovation, drugs or migration.
it is important to recall that the eu's strategic partnership is based on common values and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and it is also necessary to stress that challenges such as the food crisis, the fight against climate change and the social solution to the crisis are common to the eu and latin america and must be addressed by strengthening multilateralism.
promoting sustainable development in other countries at the economic and socio-political level is the basis for a better future for both the eu and the partners, which in the case of latin america are characterised by enormous disparities in wealth and social reality.
the lisbon treaty stipulates that the union shall endeavour to develop relations and establish partnerships with third countries, promoting the sustainable development of developing countries in economic, social and environmental terms, with the primary objective of eradicating poverty.
food crises, climate change and social problems are common challenges in these two areas.
volunteering is already an important element in the welfare and personal services system, from a subsidiarity and sustainability perspective, and the state apparatus will only be able to provide it to an increasingly reduced extent.
sport, environmental protection, emergency prevention and management, and the protection of artistic and cultural heritage are areas where volunteering is essential.
in a society as rapidly changing as the european one, the promotion of solidarity is a valuable element; the european commission has published a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of a european approach to the problem of climate change.
- i voted in favour of the report by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, because i believe that it sets important objectives for volunteering.
there are so many natural and environmental disasters that affect the european union and so many volunteers who come from all over the union to provide their help, labour and solidarity, regardless of the linguistic and bureaucratic barriers that exist in the union's multifaceted territory.
− technology is playing an increasingly important role in all daily activities, from communication to financial and banking activities, from transport to energy, from culture to health.
the list of attacks compiled by the csis study centre shows that, as far as europe is concerned, in 2011 alone, the british ministry of defence, the bbc, the norwegian national security agency, a major dutch certification body, the german federal police, the eu carbon trading market and the french public administration in the vicinity of the g20 were affected, among others.
italian scholar stefano mele recently summarized the impact, including on human lives, of possible attacks on critical transport, energy, water and security infrastructure.
the commission also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
- the current economic and commercial environment sees the internet as the protagonist of economic activities and practices which, until a few decades ago, existed in different forms and instruments.
− technology is playing an increasingly important role in all our daily activities, from communication to finance and banking, from transport to energy, from culture to entertainment and health.
− the constant and growing presence of technology and information technology in everyday life, in areas such as communication, finance and banking, transport, energy, culture and health, is prompting the european union to pay particular attention to the gap between the exponential growth of innovation and the uneven growth of security systems aimed at protecting sensitive data of european citizens and businesses in the union area.
− europe is one of the largest energy buyers on global markets.
i believe that in the framework of the definition of european energy policy, we must work towards a common approach extending our sphere of influence beyond the mere frontiers of europe and, in particular, in the field of energy market rules.
in my view, also in the light of the current union objectives set out in the 20-20-20 climate-energy package, it is crucial to ensure reliable and competitively priced access to global energy supplies to support europe's competitiveness and security of energy supply.
a coherent and coordinated approach by the member states, the commission and the council can allow for effective promotion of the union's energy objectives outside the union and a better contractual position vis-à-vis third countries.
i am voting in favour of this approach, which, by presenting a wide range of content and analytical forecasts, is firmly anchored in the principle of a common policy based on energy solidarity and cooperation as a strategy for promoting the values of political stability and global security.
- i voted in favour of mrs herczog's report because i share her call for greater security of energy supply.
the european economy relies largely on imports of energy and raw materials from third countries, which makes it vulnerable to the high risks inherent in this system.
the diversification of the energy mix to increase the share of renewables in it, while a valid alternative, cannot in itself be a satisfactory solution to the problem.
− the lack of a common energy policy has been hurting the european union for years: we spend over 400 billion euros a year importing energy produced by others.
at the same time, it is necessary to diversify energy supply routes and increase information sharing.
the creation of a coordinated energy policy at european level is the key to ensuring that european citizens enjoy a reliable and competitive energy policy.
- the report by mr herczog, for which i voted in favour, has the advantage of highlighting certain specific features of energy policies and relations with non-european partners on this subject.
this is of particular significance in the light of changes and developments in the supply of energy sources.
the same applies to environmental safety, which is a subject that requires increasing attention.
− it is essential that the european union recognises the security and development of internal fossil fuel resources as a priority, particularly in relation to the significant reserves recently discovered in the mediterranean sea, which could reduce europe's dependence on energy imports.
i agree with the rapporteur that energy policy must be an integral and important part of the common foreign policy and that it should be developed and implemented in synergy with other policies which have an external dimension.
the common energy policy is the future we all want for europe.
unfortunately, our energy efficiency depends on other countries, the eu imports some 400 billion energy products a year, which is why it needs a policy of energy cooperation with third countries.
the text voted in parliament aims to ensure a secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply.
in addition, the partnership offers the possibility to develop, together with countries outside the eu, new projects for the union's energy policies, from sustainability to efficiency to clean energy.
another objective is a common energy policy, which goes beyond the interests of individual member states to ensure the common european need for common access routes to energy infrastructure corridors.
− the european union is one of the world's largest energy importers.
a common approach is therefore needed, extending the sphere of influence beyond european borders, especially in the energy market.
- having participated in the working groups which, under the leadership of the previous president of the european parliament, mr buzek, were concerned with laying the foundations for a common energy policy, i can only support this own-initiative report on cooperation in the field of energy policies.
if the european union could coordinate and represent the purchase of energy, including oil and gas, with third countries, it could obtain much more favourable economic conditions and greater guarantees of supply.
the important point is that the choice to give the eu this role must be made autonomously by the member states, which, under the treaty, have full competence over energy supply.
ensuring reliable and competitive access to energy supplies is essential for european competitiveness and for maintaining an optimal contractual position vis-à-vis third countries.
− the issue of energy security is of fundamental importance in the policies of the european union.
europe spends over 400 billion euros on energy imports each year, which makes it highly dependent on third countries.
coordination between member states, diversification of energy suppliers, routes and sources, extension of the european sphere of influence beyond borders, sharing of information on energy data and projects in third countries and partnership with suppliers and international organisations are the cornerstones on which the new european energy policy will have to be based.
by putting these guidelines into practice and by following the european union's lead in energy efficiency and the development of new forms of energy, we will be able to achieve a secure, sustainable and competitive energy policy.
the work to be done to achieve a genuine common energy policy is still long, but there is no doubt that parliament intends to move decisively in this direction.
- energy, a common good of the citizens of the union and beyond, has become a means of instrumentalising foreign policy in the last decade.
europe's submission to global markets for its energy supply puts europe in a weak position but at the same time gives it bargaining power.
− the european union spends more than €400 billion on energy imports each year, which shows how important the issue of energy security is on the european agenda.
the key elements on which european energy policy will have to be based, in addition to what has already been done on energy efficiency and renewable sources, are increased coordination between member states, diversification of suppliers and the sharing of information on energy sources and projects in third countries.
our gross domestic product has tripled in the last decade, with growth forecast to be close to 6% this year, and we aim to maintain that growth over the next five years, despite the complicated international environment.
in this context, my government has set as a priority objective social inclusion, which will come with economic growth, so that the benefits that peru has brought, its good business climate, commercial openness and investments extend to all sectors of peruvian society, in particular the poorest in our country.
in addition to economic growth with social inclusion, a second axis i would like to highlight is the sustainable development of our natural resources and the promotion of responsible mining.
this new relationship will allow us to include the communities, to include the peoples of the area of mining influence, and will allow us to address the legitimate uncertainties and doubts that the population living in the area may have in a transparent, participatory way, using dialogue as the main instrument for conflict resolution, as well as strengthening our environmental policy and sustainable development, for which the ministry of the environment has been created.
peru in particular and latin america in general have concrete challenges to ensure social and environmental sustainability in their development model.
among the most important challenges are the change in production and consumption patterns, the promotion of business agriculture and a peasant economy that adapts to climate change, an integrated management of natural resources and water resources, a land-use planning policy that ensures the security and integrity of indigenous peoples and communities in harmony with protected natural areas, as well as the promotion and development of clean technologies that adapt to the needs of each of the many ecological floors we have.
my country has ratified the main international environmental conventions.
as a mega-biodiverse country and highly vulnerable to climate change, it gives high priority to policies for climate change mitigation and adaptation, conservation and sustainable use of the amazon forest and protection of biodiversity.
finally, in addition to being a full member of the convention on biological diversity and having ratified the cartagena protocol on biosafety, we have signed - and are in the process of legislative approval - the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and have recently passed a law establishing a ten-year moratorium on the introduction and production of living modified organisms for cultivation and breeding purposes, based on the precautionary principle of protecting human, animal and plant health and the environment.
the industry in peru, including mining, currently operates under a legal framework that protects the environment and includes indigenous communities in decision-making, through the prior consultation mechanism, whose law has been unanimously approved by congress, and i believe - without any doubt - that we are the first country in the world to establish a law of prior consultation with communities.
we also think it is necessary for mining companies to have a guarantee fund which would be triggered when there is any environmental damage.
the trade agreement with the european union clearly reflects this commitment by containing disciplines developed under a trade and sustainable development approach that reaffirm the core ilo conventions.
on the other hand, peru has been implementing sustainable alternative development programmes which are already benefiting 84 000 families, which has meant expenditures of more than 100 million dollars per year.
although the new criteria for preferences will reduce the number of beneficiaries by about half, i believe that the system continues to provide a real opportunity for these countries to increase their international trade, generating revenue to be used for income growth, sustainable development policies and poverty eradication.
− with regard to the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the priorities of the european union for the 67th session of the united nations general assembly, i consider it necessary to define a comprehensive international framework for the period after 2015, with the following key objectives: enhancing the application of innovative financing mechanisms to achieve climate change objectives, focusing on the assessment of successes and failures against current targets achieved and not achieved; fully pursue the objectives of rio + 20; renew the commitment to food security in member states and to stimulate agricultural production capacity, infrastructure, new enterprises, access to technologies, human and social development in the least developed countries; fully support the central role played by the united nations, in particular the office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs.
given the importance of a strong and stable eu-un partnership for the work of the united nations, the union is called upon to engage on several fronts to strengthen the international criminal justice system, to further ensure the protection and recognition of human rights, to promote the culture of democracy and the rule of law, and to take a leading role in global climate governance by supporting biodiversity and climate protection in developing countries.
in addition, the proposed reform highlights two fundamental needs: the need for a more targeted grading system and further promotion of fundamental human rights, labour and the principles of sustainable development.
− developing countries need to participate in international trade, as their increased presence would enable them to generate additional export earnings, supporting income growth and the implementation of sustainable development and poverty reduction strategies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
fiscal policy should be in line with the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to overcome the crisis and move the economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, coupled with high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
as regards the increased monitoring of the processes in countries with large budget deficits, and the commission's request to increase the provisions for national budgetary policies, i am voting in favour, while also stressing the need to align these upgrades with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which is aimed, among other things, at helping the eu to overcome the crisis and to move its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
these countries are crucial in preparing important investment projects for the creation of inclusive markets for people and investment measures aimed at energy development and eco-sustainability that will serve as a good practice for other states in the arab world.
the commission is right not to adopt the regulation establishing the next mff in the absence of a political agreement on the reform of the own resources system, which would put an end to the current reductions and other correction mechanisms and lead to greater transparency, fairness and sustainability.
− the europe 2020 strategy was created primarily to promote sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment in europe and was adopted to deal with the current wave of economic and financial crisis that has hit europe since 2008. in order to achieve optimal results for sustainable growth and territorial development, solidarity and cohesion, priority should be given to improving synergies between all union budgetary funds that have an impact on economic development.
the european union has a mandate to work together towards the achievement of democratic governance with respect for human rights and economic prosperity, which can only be achieved through mutual trust and an environment conducive to stable and sustainable economic development.
through trade liberalization and expansion, the agreement aims to improve general working conditions, encouraging the achievement of the objective of sustainable development, the promotion of economic progress and respect for workers' rights and the protection of the environment.
uncontrolled arms trading pose a serious threat to peace and stability but also to democracy, the rule of law and sustainable social-economic development.
i also would like to underline that impunity for human rights abuses and the increased unemployment and impoverishment of the population are also determining factors in undermining political stability in the democratic republic of the congo and are creating a climate of insecurity.
− building a democratic society requires first of all a strong political will and an ambitious vision on the part of political leaders, governments and the opposition, and must aim at the establishment of political institutions guaranteeing the human, civil, political, social, economic and environmental rights of the population.
the construction of a democratic society requires strong political will and an ambitious vision from leaders and governments as well as the opposition, and must aim at the establishment of political institutions to guarantee the human, social, economic and environmental rights of the population.
so it is not a vague growth, but a sustainable growth that lasts over time.
we want to avoid that an excessive extension of the scope, not counterbalanced by an appropriate framework of derogations, ultimately leads to a disproportionate increase in costs compared to the expected environmental and health benefits.
the extended or open scope approach is one we have seen used before whenever environmental legislation has affected industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from seveso to bhopal to toulouse, there have been numerous environmental disasters in europe in recent years, which have put the health of european citizens at risk.
the text of mr áder concerns the revision of the seveso ii directive which aims to contain the effects of those accidents involving large quantities of dangerous and highly polluting substances dispersed in the environment.
the revised rules, which will come into force in june 2015, are designed to protect the environment and, above all, to limit the tragic consequences for the health of citizens, and i therefore voted in favour of them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we look back at some of the major environmental disasters that we are all aware of, we can see that there have been many cases where accidents at work have been followed by disastrous environmental consequences.
while i welcome the introduction of new rules which are more restrictive than in the recent past in the area of plant inspection, i think it is important to stress here that the new environmental legislation as a whole will lead to a significant increase in the administrative burden on european companies.
since 1967, the year of the tragic seveso chemical disaster, europe has done much to ensure that accidents involving certain dangerous substances are prevented and their serious consequences for the environment and humans are reduced.
i agree that appropriate precautionary measures must be taken to ensure a high level of protection for citizens, communities, heritage and the environment throughout the union.
− the most serious industrial accidents in the eu member states have cost many lives and destroyed property and seriously damaged the environment, causing billions of euros in damage.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the health and safety of workers, the protection of workers' rights and the protection of the environment.
real sustainable and lasting growth must take into account the rights of producers, workers and investors, as well as citizens and consumers.
a european investment strategy must be launched, focusing on modernising infrastructure, human capital and laying the foundations for a sustainable economy.
the energy efficiency directive, which is capable of creating two million jobs, is a prime example.
a european investment plan is needed, with a coherent industrial strategy that invests in public services, based on new sources of income and giving priority to investments that promote a sustainable economy, quality work and social justice.
i believe that the support for apprenticeships for young people entering the labour market and continuing training and updating are essential in this respect, so that we can move together towards sustainable growth.
we have not taken the opportunity of the recast to introduce a really drastic regulation of noise emissions.
firstly, in transport there are clear regulations on noise emissions in all areas - road, air - except rail.
in many committees of this parliament we are working every day to reduce the financial and administrative burden on our companies, but reports like this one are putting all our efforts to waste, because they will suffocate the companies themselves with new bureaucratic burdens, with numerous economic losses and with new forms of unfair competition.
if the difference between a specialty medicinal product and a generic medicinal product is not made clear, there is a risk of creating barriers and obstacles to generic medicinal products to the detriment of consumers, and for this reason i believe that the position we have taken as a group to call for a change in the legislation on this subject is entirely reasonable and sustainable.
there are still large areas in europe where this quality is seriously affected by industrial and agricultural pollution.
we cannot tolerate any longer that many cities dump their waste water into the environment without any sort of treatment.
it is essential to identify and remediate areas contaminated by industrial sites, unsafe or unsafe dumping sites for toxic and harmful waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i warmly congratulate mr seeber on his excellent report, which has already been unanimously approved by the committee on the environment.
that directive set the union states the ambitious target of achieving optimum ecological and chemical status of water in all european water bodies by 2015. we know today that because of old and new challenges not all member states will achieve the objective set by the union.
the waste water treatment also requires urgent action because in many cases the treatment is absolutely inadequate and insufficient.
i supported the proposal of my colleague because i consider the mediterranean area to be a coherent whole, a single cultural and environmental area where we can share common priorities such as agricultural production, renewable energy and tourism.
i believe that the mediterranean regions, which share the same natural environment and the same historical and cultural reality, have every interest in cooperating in this direction: the south of europe has great potential which could be exploited to the full with the coordination and overall vision that the definition of a macro-regional strategy fosters, and i am referring in particular to the project of an adriatic-ionian macro-region.
the mediterranean can become the place where culture, education, training, tourism, trade, environmental protection, transport and fisheries can become elements for the take-off of this area, precisely at the time of the ensuing arab spring.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, water is life, water is a common and precious commodity which we have a duty and an interest in preserving and managing in a sustainable way to ensure the preservation of ecosystems and the very survival of man.
we need to achieve the goal of a green economy and have locally established water plans that seriously combat waste, aim at saving, reusing and recycling water, whether for irrigation, private households and in all the various sectors.
action at eu level must address the current and future water challenges facing our continent, and so the water conservation plan that will be released in november is essential to ensure that we have - as we have heard - sufficient and good quality water for sustainable and equitable use.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr seeber's work is the european parliament's contribution to the preparation of the plan for the protection of europe's water resources, with which the commission will take stock of what has been achieved as a result of the water framework directive, which has been one of the main pillars of european water policies since 2000. the report for which we voted in favour highlights the challenges to be faced, the gaps to be filled, especially in relation to the objective of sustainability in terms of good ecological, chemical and quantitative status, which, according to the same framework directive, should be achieved by 2015. the measures suggested include the inclusion of water-related issues in all eu policy areas, the development of a holistic approach that considers all water uses and their implications, the promotion and advocacy of efficiency and sustainability in the management of this fundamental resource, and the achievement of water security, not only at regional but also at international level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, water is central to ecosystems and the climate, and it is a determining factor in the growth and development of many economic sectors.
i agree with mr seeber: the commission is also proposing to create a european water framework that supports the green economy, including the polluter pays principle, with transparent and efficient charging systems, and then incentives and investments for the use of treated waste water, grey water, storm water, and the implementation of a quality control system on the status of the european water network, to prevent about 70% of the water supplied to european cities from being lost to leaks in the network.
improving efficiency and sustainability is a duty we cannot shirk, even in the face of the challenges of climate change.
the objective we have set for 2015 of achieving good ecological and chemical status of water is the sine qua non of european environmental policy and a commitment to be rigorously monitored.
when it comes to the mediterranean, we must consider that the entire basin shares the same natural environment, and its shores are connected by the same history and culture.
the mediterranean basin shares the same natural environment and the same historical and cultural reality.
the 'mediterranean climate' gives rise to similar ecotypes: the products of the earth are alike and in their variety they constitute a single range of products.
at the same time, environmental problems are the same everywhere.
the mediterranean is therefore particularly rich in biodiversity, but it is also under threat.
the latter would gain greater security, more 'sustainable' control of immigration flows and direct participation in a growing area, with positive effects on its economic performance.
the mediterranean strategy can be based on the need to develop an integrated maritime transport system covering the whole mediterranean basin and the development of renewable energies.
we therefore insist on the need to introduce a mandatory mechanism to limit the noise emissions of trains.
the costs of railway concessioning will include bonus/malus incentives to reduce noise pollution and to equip trains with a european traffic control system (etcs) for maximum safety.
− quality, reliable, safe and efficient rail transport services can only be guaranteed through a common policy to facilitate the sustainable development of the european economy.
an equitable water management plays a vital role in the preservation of the world’s natural capital and ecosystem services.
however, european and global freshwater resources are at risk: urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, and hydromorphological changes are all contributing to increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe water.
i therefore call on the commission to make available adequate financial resources for research projects on stormwater systems, measurement technologies, methods for monitoring and removing sources of pollution and chemical and biological pollutants, and technologies for water saving and water efficiency in urban and rural areas.
for effective cost recovery and waste monitoring, transparent charging systems must be introduced and the reuse of water for agricultural and domestic purposes must be targeted.
environmentally friendly measurement and design will help to ensure the efficiency of public, industrial and overall water-based ecosystem services.
however, european and global freshwater resources are at risk from management beyond the limits of sustainability.
we therefore support the european commission's new blueprint, which is intended to be the eu's policy response to current and future water challenges, with the aim of ensuring sufficient quantities of good quality water for sustainable and equitable water use.
firstly, in the knowledge that this is a scarce resource, efforts must be made to optimise its use and to limit waste: it is not acceptable that an outdated transport and distribution system, for example, leads to the waste of enormous quantities of water.
the report also stresses the importance of reusing and recycling water and the need for pollution not to compromise the quality of water and thus the whole ecosystem.
unfortunately, there are still many cases of negligence and recklessness today, which risk leading to the destruction of entire natural areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, hydromorphological changes and climate change are all contributing to increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe water.
in order to ensure sufficient quantities of good quality water for sustainable and equitable water use, i am voting in favour.
urbanization, population growth, consumption, pollution and climate change are contributing to pressures on the availability and quality of safe water.
the european water framework directive (wfd) adopted in 2000 sets a sustainability target in terms of ecological, chemical and quantitative 'good status' to be achieved by 2015 for all european water bodies.
in this context, the commission has launched a 'plan for the safeguarding of europe's water resources' to be published in november 2012 with the aim of ensuring a sufficient supply of good quality water for sustainable and equitable water use.
water is a commodity essential for life and to ensure that all ecosystems receive it in good quality and in the right quantity, it is essential to create a sustainable management of it.
− water is a particularly vulnerable element to the effects of climate change, which could lead to a reduction in the quantity and quality of available water, particularly drinking water, as well as an increase in the frequency and intensity of floods and droughts.
european and global freshwater resources are at risk if we manage them beyond the limits of sustainability: urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, hydromorphological changes and climate change are all contributing to increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe water.
this vote encourages the sustainable use of water, which is a necessity for the environment and for health.
unfortunately, urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, and biological and chemical pollution have led to increasing problems with the availability of safe groundwater.
i therefore believe that we must step up all the measures needed to ensure sustainable and effective management of water.
i therefore share the rapporteur's request that the commission prepare a communication to assess and promote the attractiveness of investment in europe, including policy recommendations to the member states with a view to improving the investment environment in the union.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution from industrial sources, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 1993, is a step in the right direction.
the single market is one of the most significant priorities for developing an easily accessible and stimulating environment for businesses and consumers.
in order to make the european market more attractive and to provide europe with a coherent political, economic and regulatory framework based on sustainable growth objectives, i am voting in favour.
the international economic environment continued to be characterised by uneven performance, weak growth in the most advanced economies and stronger, albeit slower, expansion in emerging markets.
− i support this report because it is essential to attract new investors to the eu market and this is only possible through measures such as project bonds and far-reaching reforms such as the cohesion policy we will adopt in 2013. ambitious territorial development policies will enable the eu to maintain high quality human capital, foster an open and fair business environment and invest in research and innovation for successful products and business models to benefit the european economy and society.
the creation of deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas) is indeed one of the most ambitious tools of eu bilateral trade policy with the aim to achieve a stable economic environment which respects democracy and the rule of law.
the area in question is still socially and politically unstable, but the eu cannot avoid pursuing policies of partnership with it, which is dominated by russian influence and is also extremely rich in energy resources.
− the creation of deep and comprehensive free trade areas is without doubt one of the most ambitious instruments of the european union's bilateral trade policy, which aims to achieve a stable, transparent and predictable economic environment, while respecting democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law.
− the creation of a comprehensive and deep free trade area with the eu is one of the key incentives for partner countries to pursue their reforms, as it represents one of the most ambitious instruments of the eu's bilateral trade policy to achieve a stable, transparent and predictable economic environment respectful of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law, allowing not only greater economic integration through the progressive dismantling of trade barriers, but also regulatory convergence in areas affecting trade in goods and services, in particular by increasing investment protection, optimising customs and border procedures, reducing technical trade barriers and other non-tariff barriers to trade.
the first is that the network is now regarded by european citizens as a genuine common good, like biodiversity, like water, as an area of individual freedom which cannot be threatened by any kind of measure.
i would like to point out, however, that we want to include a passage from the european council conclusions in the report for tomorrow's vote, in the form of an oral amendment in which the council states that the european union will continue to do whatever is necessary to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
if we really want to do what you said about energy or transport networks, the funding available today is useful to start a process, but it is not enough to achieve it in the time the union has given itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, simply to add my voice to the applause this report has received in the house in relation to the need to strengthen the capacity of the european union to be a place where it is possible to invest, produce, and produce in the light of our conception of an inclusive, socially and environmentally sustainable economy.
i believe that some of the indications in this measure are very useful, others can be added, i believe that it is important to take up this indication, to work more and more so that attractiveness is the consequence of territorial marketing and opening-up policies which are, on the part of the territory, the proposal of a productive, industrial, manufacturing and service vocation which, arising from the territory, is respectful of all environmental compatibilities and, together, european policies that go in this direction, from the territory and from europe a voice that is attractive for investment and for growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be attractive, the european union must have a policy and regulatory framework based on the objectives of sustainable growth, as set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
a new energy model, independent of the rise in oil prices, which can offer european businesses an affordable energy cost, must be created.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is consistent with the overall development strategy of a sector which is still in great difficulty, a sector characterized by great volatility in the markets, environmental challenges and the need for environmental safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of animal welfare is part of and complementary to sustainable development policy.
the european institutions, as signatories to the sustainable development pact, must make a serious effort to ensure that this level is adequate.
in order to simplify the current regulatory environment and reduce the administrative burden on member states and to ensure greater clarity and legal certainty, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
on simplification, the proposal provides for a number of provisions on the current regulatory environment and the reduction of the administrative burden for member states, for example the possibility of exempting farmers who do not submit area payment applications or who declare only areas of less than one hectare from the obligation to declare area.
the vote approves a number of provisions aimed at simplifying the current regulatory environment and reducing the administrative burden on member states.
- i voted in favour of mr de castro's text, which contains a number of provisions designed to simplify the current regulatory environment and reduce the administrative burden on member states.
we recall that the fruit and vegetable sector contributes to environmental protection, economic growth and the creation of many direct and indirect jobs, which have been affected by the current economic crisis in many regions of the union.
− ensuring the protection and welfare of animals is part of our practices to improve the sustainability of our agricultural and food production.
i am also convinced that greater protection of animal health is also necessary for the protection of the consumer and the environment.
- i support the commission's proposal for a european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015. in fact, i believe that high and controlled animal welfare is a fundamental pillar of sustainable development and that it is essential to protect animal health as well as human health.
high animal welfare is part of sustainable development and is therefore a key element in defending the health of citizens, productivity and competitiveness of the livestock sector in europe.
− high animal welfare is part of sustainable development and is essential to protect animal health, public health and the productivity and competitiveness of the livestock sector in europe.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
what doesn't work: the budget for this pilot project, 230 million, is very small, especially the 10 million for the energy sector and the 20 million for telecommunications, which seems to be a symbolic allocation.
the funds will be used to finance up to a dozen projects, but this is a useful exercise to see if this instrument can be a steering wheel to attract the investment needed to improve transport, energy networks and telecommunications in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we heard this morning that the cypriot president is counting on the construction of networks, both energy and telecommunications networks and transport networks, but the construction of these networks requires a lot of resources.
i am therefore a tool for sustainable growth on the one hand, and for the development of work on the other.
as regards concrete projects, my understanding is that the eib is already receiving expressions of interest and has started assessing a number of potential projects in the three sectors – transport, energy and communications – in order to start seeing signatures soon for these projects.
this means that we must use this pilot phase in order to make the case for increased funding on investment and growth in the next multifinancial framework for communication and transport, for energy, security and green growth.
the european internal market needs a transport and energy infrastructure network that is efficient and widespread in order to fulfil its potential.
only concepts that are not dangerous for those who want business as usual, such as the green economy, masterfully interpreted as one of the tools available to achieve sustainable development and for the adoption of policies, but which should not be subject to rigid rules.
the divisions, the inconsistencies, the injustices will therefore remain, and the separation between the economic, social and environmental spheres will continue to produce disasters.
yes to acknowledging climate change, reducing natural disasters, energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions, but nothing concrete yet, like, the house is burning and then we do nothing to put it out.
other painful notes: the failure to transform unep into a genuine environmental agency and the failure to create a high commissioner for future generations.
the commission could give the example: bring together the financial institutions responsible for much of the crisis we are living through and ask them to commit to a plan for growth, inclusion, equity and development that respects and protects the environment and people!
the artisanal ice cream is made from fresh fruit, fresh milk and zero-mile products, and thus supports agriculture and the dairy sector by reducing co2 emissions.
the recent agreement on financial contribution will help to boost investment in european transport, energy and telecommunications networks.
- i am pleased to note that the european parliament voted today by a large majority in favour of the text for which i am the rapporteur for the opinion and which provides for the testing of a new financial instrument to help build the transeuropean transport and energy networks, the so-called 'project bonds'.
bond lending is undoubtedly a useful tool to attract as much private investment as possible in the financing of infrastructure works in the fields of transport, energy and broadband networks.
− i voted in favour of the farm report because i consider the financing of infrastructure projects in the transport and energy networks to be of crucial importance to achieving the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy.
the new infrastructure will create the right climate for a dynamic and competitive european private sector, stimulating growth, creating jobs for young people and engaging future generations in the relaunch of our economy, to respond to the most pressing challenges facing our continent today.
- i am voting in favour of the proposal for a parliament and council regulation establishing a framework programme for competitiveness and innovation and of the regulation laying down the general principles for the granting of community financial aid in the field of transeuropean transport and energy networks.
i believe that modern and efficient infrastructure is of key importance in achieving the europe 2020 strategy objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and reducing unemployment through the completion of the internal market.
in adopting this report, parliament, having regard to the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council and the opinion of the committee of the regions, reaffirmed the need for modern and efficient infrastructure to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to reduce the unemployment rate by completing the internal market.
while optimisation gives scope for application to sectors other than transport, including energy and ict projects, scaling up allows not only traffic risks to be covered, but also all possible risks that could cause a decrease in revenues over the lifecycle of a project.
the europe 2020 strategy contains measures to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
to achieve the objectives set out in this strategy and to help the market to unlock its full potential, modern and efficient infrastructure (transport and energy) throughout europe is of crucial importance.
− a modern and efficient infrastructure is of key importance to achieving the europe 2020 strategy objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to reducing unemployment through the completion of the internal market.
the estimated investment needs in transport, energy and information and communication technology infrastructure in europe are eur 1 500 billion for the period 2010-2020. while the private sector is expected to support the bulk of these mostly beneficial investments, the role of the public sector in europe will be crucial in achieving these objectives.
the vote will seek to accelerate the development of infrastructure in transport, energy and ict networks, with particular emphasis on the strategic cross-border parts.
the agenda includes the report by sophie auconie, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 as regards the electronic identification of bovine animals and repealing the provisions on voluntary labelling of beef and veal (com (2012) 0162 - c7-0114/2012 - 2011/0229 (cod)) (a7-0199/2012).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a substitute member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and as a full member of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i have had the opportunity to work on the dossiers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this was the mediation that was possible today to shed light on the subject of energy efficiency, which has so far been the cinderella of the climate and energy package.
mr president, the current world economic and environmental crisis requires us to make choices to save resources.
with the energy efficiency directive, which was adopted today, we can achieve important objectives such as: addressing climate change and the scarcity of fossil energy sources, such as coal and oil; reduce annual costs for the purchase of energy sources by as much as eur 400 billion, with a potential saving of eur 50 billion per year; reducing europe's dependence on russia and the opec countries, from which we import gas and oil; reducing air pollution, which today in some regions of europe represents an unfortunately unresolved threat to the health of millions of european citizens; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
i therefore welcome the rules introduced for the renovation of public buildings and for the four-yearly energy audits, which are compulsory for all large companies.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report by mr turmes, which paves the way for the adoption of a directive which will finally close the gap between member states on energy efficiency.
according to the commission's figures, the operation will reduce overall investment costs in energy generation and distribution by some 20 billion.
this is a key element which will also help to establish the union as a global player, since future geopolitical balances will be mainly determined by policies on the supply and use of energy resources.
mr president, i voted in favour of this dossier because i believe that the question of energy efficiency, linked to sustainability and competitiveness, can certainly be an essential tool in a process, such as the present one, which is particularly difficult.
sustainable growth is needed, which must concern small and mediumsized enterprises and which can also be used as a virtuous mechanism through innovative green technologies.
mr president, energy efficiency is one of the pillars of the union's climate policy.
it is the result of a satisfactory and timely agreement on the content, since it obliges the member states to prepare a strategy based on indicative national targets, which take account of the union's objectives, and at the same time allows energy companies to comply with the requirements for energy saving in accordance with the principle of reasonable flexibility.
the target of a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020 is therefore within reach.
this is an important element in creating green jobs and, ultimately, in boosting competitiveness and sustainability.
mr president, a good compromise has been reached which puts europe on the right track to achieve the objectives of the climate package.
one of the successes is that the 3% target for energy efficiency in public buildings has been maintained, an ambitious target in a time of economic crisis, which has a strong environmental impact and will be a lever for the union's economic growth.
the directive lays the foundations for redesigning energy saving strategies, for which both private and public actors will need to rely on experts in the field, without whom the objectives set will be difficult to achieve.
it therefore opens the door to encouraging national programmes for the training of experts in energy auditing and saving.
we voted in favour of this because it is an important policy instrument to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market in products for consumer and environmental protection, innovation and social inclusion.
mr president, i am against the proposal for a directive because once again the european union wants to be the first in the world when it comes to the environment and climate.
unfortunately, this attitude puts us at a distinct competitive disadvantage in the global marketplace, with negligible environmental benefits.
why does the commission not apply duties to goods from third countries which use fuel with a high sulphur content and which are harmful to the environment as a whole?
i think that the initiative of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, supported by the work of mr yannakoudakis, is most appropriate.
many recommendations also appear convincing from the perspective of not 'wasting' the crisis, that is, of interpreting energy efficiency as part of an integrated response to the crisis.
contributes to security and stability by reducing energy dependence on supplies that are mostly located in politically volatile areas.
- i voted in favour of the proposal for an energy efficiency directive put forward by mr turmes.
i fully share the objective of closing the gap to the 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020 by defining, without setting binding targets, a common energy efficiency framework.
the main benefits will be lower co2 emissions, resulting in less waste, and investment and innovation to achieve the targets will be promoted.
− negotiations on energy efficiency measures are proving increasingly difficult and complex, mainly because of some large member states, not always and totally willing to support ambitious agreements and prospects, which, in the short term, can lead to costs and negative consequences for their competitiveness.
here too, despite some improvements, we are faced with a directive which, while contributing to the 20% energy saving target by 2020, will not be sufficient on its own (an estimated result of between 15% and 17%).
a structural and lasting solution to this crisis must be sought in measures that tackle and solve the serious problem of energy poverty at its root.
the legislative proposal is an important instrument which, although not binding, introduces energy efficiency measures which should enable the european targets of 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020 in the climate package to be achieved.
i welcome the fact that this package addresses the concerns in terms of budgetary constraints imposed by the economic crisis, introducing a degree of flexibility that is well suited to certain contexts such as the italian one without forgetting environmental sustainability.
− efforts to save energy, according to the data available to us, are still not sufficient to achieve the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990. the report has the merit of highlighting this problem and of presenting solutions to try to implement an energy plan which is sustainable and with measurable objectives.
in this sense, all productive sectors, not just the private sector, are identified as operational agents for greater energy efficiency.
public buildings, for example, play a key role in this respect and their renovation is desirable precisely to meet minimum energy performance requirements and to get closer to the targets for reducing gas emissions.
i agree with the clarification that the european union spends more than 400 billion euros a year on energy imports.
achieving the minimum energy saving target of 20% will not only increase our energy security, but also reduce the transfer of wealth from eu economies to energy-producing countries by at least €50 billion a year.
- i voted in favour of mr turmes' report because i believe that one of the most important areas to be promoted, both at european and national level, is energy efficiency.
the difficulty of achieving the 2020 targets set by the executive commission requires the eu and all member states to be able to commit themselves fully to leading by example and to seeking solutions that can make energy consumption more efficient.
the text just voted repeals a directive from eight years ago which, in the field of research and development, industry and energy, is old and obsolete.
the proposal for the new directive, in line with the eu 2020 targets, aims to reduce the eu's energy use by 20%.
the commission will be able to take account of the need to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
energy efficiency means saving energy costs, increasing safety, specialising and developing industries, and we cannot but share these objectives.
− considering that the european union's energy efficiency targets are indispensable to achieve, as failure would also mean that the eu would miss the targets on climate change, energy security, green growth and social protection, a common eu approach is needed in order to consolidate energy savings, energy efficiency and innovation, achieve economies of scale and reduce red tape across all member states.
- i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that a net 20% cut in energy consumption in the eu could save €50 billion a year.
this ambitious target can only be achieved through new mandatory energy saving measures such as renovation of public buildings, energy saving plans for public enterprises and energy audits for all large enterprises.
this decision is doubly important: it is not only critical to achieving our energy security and climate goals, but it will also give a strong boost to the economy and create new jobs.
- this directive, which we strongly opposed at the beginning of the legislative process, to the extent that we tabled an alternative resolution asking the commission to withdraw its proposal and to reformulate it because it affected the right of a member state to determine the conditions for the use of its energy sources, has been significantly amended.
the rapporteur, who was strongly opposed to the amendments, accepted the compromise, even though the 20% energy efficiency target cannot be fully guaranteed as a more ambitious position would jeopardise the agreement.
- the text we voted on this morning proposes to further strengthen the measures presented by the commission, by integrating them into the european energy policy perspective to 2050, and also by including requests for financial support for programmes/investments for efficiency measures.
i think the proposal is particularly worthwhile, as it puts particular emphasis on the identification of energy efficiency targets, the role of the public sector as a role model, mandatory energy efficiency schemes and the promotion of efficiency in heating and cooling, with particular reference to cogeneration and efficiency in energy transmission and distribution.
finally, the commission estimates that, in the face of an increase in the cost of investments in energy efficiency of around eur 24 billion per year, the legislative proposal would lead to an overall reduction in the cost of investments in energy generation and distribution and in the costs of the 'energy bill' of around eur 20 billion for the period 2011-2020. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the directive.
- mr turmes' report introduces a series of energy-saving measures including new obligations for the refurbishment of public buildings and the development of cogeneration technologies that member states will have to apply to achieve the energy efficiency targets foreseen for 2020. in view not only of the difficult economic situation europe is facing but also of the efforts already made by european companies to improve energy efficiency, i believe that the text adopted today is a good compromise: the measures envisaged should allow the commitments made under the 'climate package' to be respected.
the emotional climate that follows is a fertile ground for opposing demagogues and for manifestations of that particular residual selfishness, inherited from an era in which european countries faced each other instead of cooperating.
it guarantees the protection of consumers and the environment, and at the same time the competitiveness and innovation of our companies.
i think the greatest success has been in ensuring that small businesses and representatives of consumers, environmental organisations and civil society are involved and that they are consulted throughout the process of developing standards.
the regulation aims to reduce bureaucratic barriers and increase transparency, while also protecting consumers and the environment.
then why waste the work we've done?
the limits for the high seas are equivalent to those for the following seca (sulphur emission control areas): this will bring the mediterranean into this classification, which goes well beyond the limits set by the marpol convention (international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships).
i believe that these changes have a competitive disadvantage for the european market which is far greater than the environmental benefits which are negligible.
given that if they are not reduced, by the end of this decade sulphur oxide emissions from ships in the eu's maritime zones will exceed the combined emissions from the union's land areas, and that according to commission estimates the monetary value of the health benefits that can be achieved is greater than the costs of reducing ship emissions by a factor of between 2 and 25, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
by adopting this report, in the light of the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council (com (2011) 0439), and having regard to the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 18 january 2012, the european parliament takes a serious position on the challenge of improving air quality on european coasts in order to reduce deaths caused by air pollution from ships.
- i voted in favour of this text to make the limits for sulphur in marine fuels stricter by 2020, a change which will have the main effect of improving air quality on european coasts and reducing some 50 000 premature deaths per year caused by air pollution from ships.
after a series of long and intense negotiations, a compromise was reached which represents the right balance between european environmental objectives and the positions of the companies involved.
- stressing the argument that donation - in this case of multiple tissues, reproductive cells and non-reproductive cells - should be voluntary and carried out on a non-profit basis in a transparent environment, and considering that health care is largely a member state competence, there is now a need to complement existing practices in the member states and to develop areas such as cross-border donation.
i therefore support the call for the member states to provide specialised training courses in areas such as renewable energy and to promote information campaigns on eu-funded programmes to increase the participation of women in green economy jobs.
in order to facilitate women's access to the new green jobs, i believe it is essential that the commission and the member states promote specialised training courses in areas such as renewable energy, giving concrete opportunities for women to enter the workforce in remote areas where unemployment is particularly high among the young population.
i refer, for example, to the potential for women in the field of solar or wind energy in the southern regions of europe.
− defining a green or sustainable economy as a system in which the productive capacity of ecosystems is preserved, while creating a society in which basic human needs are guaranteed for all, which of course includes equal opportunities for women and men, and considering that the imbalance between women and men in political and economic decision-making is considerable, it is necessary that countries take all necessary measures in order to achieve a gender balance.
given the different roles, consumption patterns and environmental impact of men and women, and the fact that this diversity of behaviour is a component of the development of our gender identity and helps to strengthen it, i am in favour of the proposal.
member states should therefore provide for specialised courses in the field of renewable energy to promote and facilitate women's access to new jobs.
i am also pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the european year of the environment.
some fish stocks are seriously threatened and therefore ensuring sustainable fishing must be the objective to be achieved if we want to increase the productivity of our seas in the future.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident.
we must also create a place where everyone in society is included, where our environment is allowed to flourish without the threat of pollution and climate change, where agriculture is the friend of the land and where human activity, in all its expressions, is allowed to flourish.
the supply chain must be shortened, trade opportunities increased, fleets modernised and, in line with tradition, a sector where environmental sustainability must be combined with economic viability must be modernised and developed.
if we are to safeguard marine biological resources, preserve the marine ecosystem and ensure the survival of the fishing industry, we must give overexploited fish stocks time to repopulate.
we need a coherent reform, one which allows for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and not a watered-down text with no prospects for the future.
i therefore welcome all efforts to strengthen the rights of victims and to provide them with appropriate support services, because they are cost-effective measures which will make a positive contribution to facilitating the reporting of crimes and to maintaining the sustainability of national justice and health systems.
− according to the 2010 fao report, the average per capita consumption of fishery products has doubled since the 1960s: fish is the leading raw material in the food industry by trade volume, with an estimated value of $102 billion in 2008. it should not be surprising, then, that a part of the fish stocks is under constant threat of depletion and that the question of environmental and food balances calls for the utmost responsibility and concrete action to combat illegal fishing, the turnover of which, according to some environmental organizations, exceeds 25% of the value of the global market.
− the management of highly migratory fish stocks requires constant cooperation and direct consultation between the countries whose fleets exploit these stocks, avoiding the risk of unilateral measures potentially harmful to the long-term sustainability of the resources.
on the other hand, it is the eu's responsibility to ensure that this obligation to cooperate is respected and that member states do not take unilateral actions contrary to the general interest in the conservation of the marine ecosystem.
it also welcomed the introduction of instruments to ensure that the measures adopted are effective, proportionate and compatible with international standards, as well as respecting environmental, commercial, economic and social standards.
underlining the eu's responsibility to ensure sustainable fishing and the respect of the obligations arising from the common management of transboundary and migratory fish stocks and therefore the importance of providing the eu with the means to take effective action against states which are not prepared to assume such responsibility, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
the commission will now have to carry out a comprehensive reform of the fisheries policy to make it more environmentally sustainable.
the objectives of the common fisheries policy are to improve environmental protection through effective regulation.
with these objectives in mind and stressing the importance of rewarding sustainable fishing practices with an eu ecolabel, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
− we are voting to say that, although the lisbon treaty is giving new impetus to the eu's foreign policy, providing the institutional and operational tools, its effectiveness and sustainability are undermined by the ongoing financial crisis.
it is right to stress the need for a balance between the ecological and the economic and social situation in each fishing activity, recognising that without abundant fish stocks the fishing industry will not be viable.
long-term management plans must be well defined and based on an ecosystem approach to find the solutions needed for the management of mixed fisheries.
the real problem is not to apply the sanctions provided for, but to speed up the timely collection of data to protect the marine ecosystem.
− council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 requires the commission to report, by the end of 2012, to both the european parliament and the council on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and on the achievements of the member states in the adjustment of fishing capacity.
this requires a reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) which strikes the right balance between ecological and economic aspects and provides a general definition of overcapacity at eu level and a specific definition at regional level, taking into account the different weighting factors in the regions.
first, i believe that measures to conserve marine resources should be strengthened, for example by creating a voluntary 'ecological quality' label, increasing the amount of co-financing allowed and continuously collecting data to monitor the state of biodiversity in the various european basins.
i agree that the fisheries sector can only remain sustainable if a balance is struck between socioeconomic and environmental aspects and if there is a sufficient number of properly trained and qualified workers.
unfortunately, neither of these two hopes has come true and today we are faced with a situation of objective difficulty for the system: the proposed solutions include new action to promote the conservation and enhancement of marine biological resources, a more rational management of the socioeconomic and employment sustainability of the sector, and a call for strict rules against non-eu states that do not respect certain maritime environmental protection characteristics.
for all these reasons i have therefore decided to support all the reports on fisheries, a sector which can and must still do a lot in terms of the environment, food, the economy and employment.
− given that one of the eu's objectives is to ensure the long-term environmental sustainability of the union's fisheries and aquaculture sector, which is one of the prerequisites for ensuring its economic and social sustainability as well, the common fisheries policy needs to be reformed in a radical and ambitious way.
in order to conserve marine biological resources, the cfp should apply the precautionary approach to fisheries management and ensure that the sustainable exploitation of living marine biological resources restores and maintains populations of all stocks of harvested species above levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield.
i therefore felt obliged to vote against the whole text, since i consider it of fundamental importance to modernise the fishing fleets for reasons of safety, environmental protection or reduction of fuel consumption, as the text states.
− in sharing and supporting the identification of the main objectives of the reform of the common fisheries policy, such as environmental sustainability, socioeconomic sustainability and regionalisation, i voted in favour of the own-initiative report discussed here.
it should also be stressed that sustainable fishing will bring enormous environmental, social and economic benefits, as a non-damaged environment will ensure a secure future for fishing communities and a profitable fishing industry without the need for public support.
it is also essential that the cfp is in line with environmental and development policies.
in this connection, how can we not agree with the concern expressed by the president of the german savings banks, mr fahrenschon, that a banking union with central supervision in the hands of the ecb and a common deposit guarantee fund is equivalent to life insurance for the systemic banks, that is to say those, not all, in whose belly there is a sea of derivatives waste?
we are in favour of the proposed regulations because they strike a balance between different requirements, all of which are based on the principle of free trade, the consideration of the community interest and international trade as a means of growth and development based on environmental sustainability and respect for human rights.
i was asked where we stand regarding the human, labour and environmental roadmap that the european parliament requested from colombia and peru in its june 2012 resolution.
− the encouragement of the use of intergovernmental agreements as a political guarantee, linked to the more systematic involvement of the commission, as a guarantee of transparency and compliance, should improve trade, industrial and international relations in the energy sector.
furthermore, by strengthening coordination between states and private companies, it will help to strengthen the union's overall position as a buyer in the global energy products market, by discouraging uncoordinated initiatives and agreements that are clearly exposed to subsequent infringement proceedings.
the convergence of practices in energy contracts with third countries is an element of the overall strengthening of foreign policy and the defence of european interests in the global context.
− at present, the management of intergovernmental agreements between individual member states and third countries is more complex than ever; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to take part in the negotiations on the energy market.
on the other hand, unfortunately, this logic, which is the only one that is really compatible with the very idea of union, is, once again, being undermined by the interests of the member states and by the will of the latter not to be hindered in sensitive areas such as energy.
− to avoid breaching the rules on the internal market in the energy sector, we need greater cooperation between member states on intergovernmental agreements in the energy sector.
- i expressed my support for mr kariņš's text, since the measures adopted are designed to create the conditions for the strengthening of europe's external energy policy, as a prerequisite for the completion of the internal energy market.
the online availability of orphan works across europe is also a necessary step towards building a climate of cultural richness, also in relation to the extraordinary variety and productivity of european authors as a whole.
it is an initiative that, in addition to promoting continuing education, also for adults, also helps to provide additional opportunities in the cultural field for the so-called "millennial" generation, the young people who are now moving in an almost exclusively digital environment.
the commission's proposal is to contribute to economic recovery by means of specific and selective increases, which are more limited than in a normal reading of the european parliament, especially in terms of commitments, but which respect the general climate of austerity and the sacrifices imposed at national level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this interim report on the multiannual financial framework offers some interesting and shareable insights, such as the need to maintain a moderate and sustainable level of expenditure and the importance of having greater flexibility in the use of resources.
the current mechanism is not sustainable, and it is not acceptable to introduce new forms of correction and compensation for member states.
preparatory action 'climate mainstreaming and innovation' is reduced by 2 million compared to the db (both in commitments and payments).
i think it is particularly important that we have avoided a slowdown in the pilot initiatives on the environment and energy, a clear sign of the good work done by the european parliament in defending the prerogatives of the european union.
i would like to conclude, on the subject of cutting waste, by saying that today the european parliament has sent a clear message to get to a single seat quickly.
− considering that the current economic climate in many member states is characterised by national austerity, weak growth, recession and lack of international competitiveness, parliament must act responsibly by approving the 2013 budget with a clear vision of how the budget can be used to boost growth and competitiveness within the european union.
− the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 are not finding fertile ground in an economic and financial environment in which member states are forced to make tough fiscal consolidation moves.
the commission proposal, however, represents a freeze of ceilings at the 2013 level and significantly weakens the calls made by the sure committee to increase community policies aimed at competitiveness, small and medium-sized enterprises and sustainable infrastructure.
the commission is therefore expressly calling for a significant increase in funding from the community budget to boost competitiveness, the development of small businesses, entrepreneurship, sustainable infrastructure, research and innovation.
− it is necessary to insist that the eu budget prioritise helping member states to cope with the strains of the difficult economic and financial environment.
in view of its resolution of 8 june 2011 entitled 'investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe' and article 311 tfeu, parliament today approved a proposal for a regulation which, supporting what has already been proposed by the commission, welcomes the abolition of the current vat own resources and the creation of a new vat own resource at eu level.
the single european sky is an ambitious project to create a single airspace that will increase capacity and efficiency in air traffic management from a functional, economic and environmental point of view.
the benefits of full and timely implementation of the ess are not negligible: a study on its macroeconomic impact shows a cumulative effect on the union's gdp of eur 419 billion, the creation of as many as 328 000 jobs and a reduction in co2 emissions of 50 million tonnes.
the single european sky, which was the aim when the legislation was drawn up, and which envisaged air traffic with greater capacity and lower costs in both economic and environmental terms, has not yet been achieved.
among the various elements that are functional to the realization of the one sky, we note: the performance system, functional airspace blocks (fabs), the role of the network operator and, above all, the implementation of the sesar programme, the technological pillar of the single sky, which will end its research phase in 2015 and which will have to be introduced on the market in ground and on-board components over the next 15 years, also with the support of european funding, in order to contribute to increasing the benefits for passengers (above all, reducing waiting times and delays) and to reducing co2 emissions and costs related to flight operations.
today, the highways of the sky are not straight because of the fragmentation of airspace, which causes longer travel times, resulting in higher co2 emissions and more expensive airfares.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
it should also be noted that the commission considers that full and timely implementation of air traffic management technologies would bring major benefits in terms of employment, the environment and timing of flights.
the 'single european sky' is a set of measures covering both the civil and military sectors and covering regulation, the economy, security, the environment, technology and institutions.
the completion of this programme will lead to significant economic, safety and environmental savings, creating a more sustainable aviation sector and a more effective european-wide traffic management system.
the recommendations on incentives for new ticketing technologies, intermodality and interoperability of networks and carriers, as well as for good practice laboratory areas with positive effects on economies and for environmental effects are also particularly welcome.
- having regard to the final annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2010 and the related report of the court of auditors, parliament rejects the discharge to the director of the european environment agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. convinced that appropriate action should be taken where there are instances of non-compliance with the rules in force and believing that in such cases the agency should draw up an action plan to remedy the deficiencies, ideally under the control of the european parliament as regards its implementation, and that the european parliament itself or the european legislator should address such problems by amending existing rules and regulations to eliminate any deficiencies, i vote in favour of the proposal.
given the significant changes the pharmaceutical industry is facing in order to remain competitive in a difficult environment, i am confident that the globalisation fund in europe would help to ease the transition of workers to new jobs.
the whole sector is under particular strain today, due to a combination of factors ranging from the economic crisis, new regulatory regimes, international political instability and environmental emergencies.
the commission has among its objectives to promote sustainable development, considering that from a financial, regulatory, administrative and social point of view, the creation of micro-enterprises and smes in developing countries is essential to create favourable business environments in order to stimulate entrepreneurship and private sector development.
the european union is the first donor but aims to be the best, and to do so it will have to excel in three areas: governance, sustainable and inclusive economic growth and the development of social protection systems in developing countries.
in order to create a favourable environment for new ideas, to encourage the development of an entrepreneurial culture and to ensure that the new strategies are implemented as soon as possible, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
italy has been standing still for years and cannot afford to waste the energy offered by its industrial fabric, which has historically been characterized by medium-sized and small companies that can count on quality, tradition and complementarity with other production systems.
− it is essential to continue strengthening transatlantic economic relations while supporting eu interests in areas such as environmental standards, animal health and protection, food safety, cultural diversity, labour rights, consumer rights, financial services, public services or geographical indications, among others.
− bearing in mind that the eu and the us are each other's main trading partners, and the two economies together account for around half of global economic output; whereas the continuing economic and financial crises, both in the eu and in the us, threaten the stability and prosperity of our economies and the well-being of our citizens, and whereas the lack of coordination of financial regulation is creating unnecessary barriers to trade, calling for closer economic cooperation between the eu and the us in order to harness the benefits of international trade in overcoming these crises; trade and foreign investment must be better used to stimulate smart and sustainable growth, which leads to more job creation and increases the well-being of people around the world.
− parliament, in endorsing this document, in the light of the eu-us summit joint declaration of 28 november 2011 and the eu-us joint declaration of the transatlantic economic council (tec) of 29 november 2011, underlines the importance of further strengthening transatlantic economic relations while promoting eu interests in areas such as environmental standards, animal health and welfare, food safety, cultural diversity, labour rights, consumer rights, financial services, public services or geographical indications.
− the efficient and effective use of trade and foreign investment is of paramount importance in the current historical and economic contingency to stimulate resource-smart and sustainable growth.
only then, in these times of crisis in the european economy, can we say that we have protected europe's productive sectors without compromising our commitment to free, sustainable and fair trade.
erasmus is important, we eurocritics support erasmus more than certain europeans who want to cut not the high bureaucracy, not the expenditure, not the waste - god forbid - but they want to cut precisely what is needed for the future of young europeans.
there's the economic crisis, of course, and we have to cut down on waste: we are therefore starting to eliminate the double seat of parliament, just to give an example, but we are not touching the funds for the actions and projects that are working, first of all erasmus, which has given millions of young europeans - i want to stress this, often young people who have no great economic opportunities - the opportunity to have an extraordinary experience of study and vocational training, which is useful in facilitating entry into the world of work.
for example, energy costs, which for many companies represent the largest part of their expenditure, should be harmonized, creating a single european market.
a common energy policy, for example, is now indispensable to guarantee all european citizens safe and clean energy at more affordable prices.
in this sense, as we are already doing in the drafting of the new common agricultural policy, the environmental component, which must certainly be protected, must be carefully reconciled with the competitive and market needs of the operators in the sector.
, often subject to legislative decisions intended to maintain the sustainability of stocks and thus guarantee continuity of work for fishermen, but which must not be to the detriment of the economic and social balance of maritime operators.
− the common fisheries policy (cfp) aims to ensure the long-term sustainability of the fisheries sector.
− i gave a favourable opinion on the report on the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs, considering that both parties seek the mutual protection of geographical indications in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and preserve the value of sustainable rural development.
the interests of the countries concerned are thus better protected in the name of product quality and safety and sustainable rural development.
− considering that the european union and the republic of moldova pursue the mutual protection of geographical indications (gi) in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and preserve the value of sustainable rural development, bilateral negotiations were concluded on 18 april 2011 with a dual objective for the european union: on the one hand, the extension of the protection and use of the geographical indications system; on the other hand, the possibility of intervening at the source of any misuse of eu geographical indications.
− in order to ensure mutual protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs, the european union and the republic of moldova have worked towards an agreement aimed at achieving higher quality standards in the food chain and supporting sustainable rural development.
- i voted in favour of the report by mr moreira, in which the european union and the republic of moldova seek to protect each other's geographical indications in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote the quality of the food chain and safeguard the value of sustainable rural development.
− i believe that the european single market, which is a space comprising more than 500 million consumers and economic activities worth over eur 11 billion, is an essential element both for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and for achieving its objectives of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
i would like to stress in particular the urgency of certain initiatives, in view of the reduction in the rights and opportunities of our fellow citizens, and in particular of small businesses, families and the elderly, in relation to the factors of competitiveness (training and human capital, access to public procurement in other states, energy supplies), the right of the taxpayer (double taxation of work or pension treatment, portability of pensions, european health service).
− in the current time of severe crisis, the eu must step up its efforts to remove obstacles to the proper functioning of the single market, particularly in areas that can act as engines for sustainable growth, such as cross-border business and trade, the provision of services, mobility, access to finance and financial literacy.
− considering that the single market, completed in 1992, was created with the aim of strengthening the links between citizens and member states and is characterised by a borderless area within which people, goods, services and capital can move freely, it is an essential element for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and for achieving its objectives of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
unfortunately, certain decisions of the court of justice and the harsh constraints imposed by the world trade organisation severely limit our freedom to legislate to protect european industry and workers from counterfeit goods or products which do not respect social and environmental standards.
in approving this text, parliament, in the light of its resolution of 25 november 2010 on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements, underlines that a free trade agreement between the eu and japan can create a win-win situation for both economies and that greater integration, achieved through an economic integration agreement, would considerably increase the benefits for the economies themselves.
it is a matter of fact that there are clear inconsistencies in the eu’s trade, agriculture, fisheries, climate, intellectual property rights, migration, finance, arms trade and raw materials policies.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
therefore we need the involvement of the european budget to reduce the risk, to reduce the risk aversion and to finance long-term projects, especially in transportation, energy and telecoms.
flexibility is needed to adjust to the fluctuations of the market and to the local environment in many countries of the european union.
public and private participation should be strengthened within the ppp system, which will help to implement individual financing projects by driving the physical and virtual infrastructure works of sustainable projects.
if they are, it means that we can also go further and issue bonds because these, if the projects are sustainable and therefore reach a break-even at a certain point, are not debts but are long-term loans.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
this agreement is of the utmost importance, it must be detailed and legally binding, it must include the requirements of european standards, it must create a legally binding energy chapter, strengthening a non-discriminatory and transparent energy market.
it is quite clear that we regard it as important, in addition to the usual traditional components of such an agreement, to have very clear and solid articles on trade, investment and energy provisions, because without those key components we would not be able to conclude the agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the list of dramas in cambodia is very long: environmental crimes, stratospheric corruption, waste of international aid, assault on human rights activists, and a very clever dictator who plays with democracy to give himself a semblance of legitimacy and who is still there.
there is an energy in parliament with the various debates on cambodia which i would like to see reflected in the other institutions.
following the conclusion of negotiations on the new eu-us agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment, a third-party certification system has been introduced in the us.
- i voted in favour of the report by mr kovacs on the eu-us agreement on the coordination of energy labelling programmes for office equipment (energy star).
in fact, the programme will continue its action in the light of energy savings in the office environment.
it is right to extend the energy star programme, as it has been very effective in steering the office equipment market towards greater energy efficiency.
− the renewal of the energy star programme in the union, based on the agreement between the us government and the eu itself, for the coordination of energy efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment, improves the energy saving performance of office equipment.
i can only welcome a project which will enable us to achieve high levels of energy savings, cost control and co2 reduction.
the agreement also provides for the development and implementation of tools to promote energy-efficient office equipment, improve market transparency and raise user awareness of energy efficiency.
the high environmental standards and the positive results achieved by energy star in previous years are the reasons why i am voting in favour.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy star is a programme set up by the united states environmental protection agency to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment.
in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement to coordinate energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
this agreement, which was renewed until 2011, provides for the implementation of the energy star programme in the eu.
the successful conclusion of the negotiations for a new agreement to extend the energy star programme is welcomed, as the latter has proved very effective in steering the office equipment market towards greater energy efficiency.
- i would like to stress the importance of innovative financial instruments in the implementation of projects through which the union's strategic objectives are to be achieved; i am convinced of the contribution they can make, both at national and eu level, to ensuring sustainable and inclusive growth.
a comprehensive eu strategy for sustainable development cooperation must go hand in hand with greater transparency and more effective regulation of commodity markets in the eu and globally.
− i believe that coordination of economic and employment policies is necessary to promote sustainable and inclusive growth.
by its driving and leveraging effect, in particular in areas of inclusive and sustainable growth such as cohesion policy and regional policy, it contributes to promoting growth and improving competitiveness.
during this 2012 european semester, a very important agreement was reached to promote the financing of key infrastructure projects that can generate growth in the member states, in the transport and energy sectors.
russia is a strategic partner for europe, especially in our energy supply: i therefore believe that we must establish common rules to regulate trade between these two vast markets, which still have a lot of untapped potential, which if properly exploited could open up new horizons and new prospects for many of our companies and products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the committee on industry, research and energy we have tabled an oral question with debate to this house, which will be dealt with tomorrow afternoon.
this is important progress in further facilitating the free movement of decisions and, above all, in ensuring better access to justice, less bureaucracy, less waste of time and money, and more secure and accessible rules.
deepening inequalities and increasing poverty and exclusion hamper growth and threaten both our social cohesion and the sustainability of our public finances.
in recent years, most responses to the financial and economic crisis have been based on objectives aimed at restoring the sustainability of public finances, which is a key element for the union's economy.
i believe that in order to restore sustainable growth in europe, it is imperative to respond to these challenges also with the help of targeted social investments aimed at preparing society to manage the transition to more flexible labour markets, to restore a suitable level of employment in the future and to improve europe's competitiveness.
support for social enterprises brings economic benefits, but it is above all the nature of their activities and their modus operandi that favours the creation of a society, a more democratic working environment and employment, which is active, cohesive, supportive and capable of contributing to job creation.
actions to improve the legal and fiscal environment and a european social label - the principle of the most economically advantageous tender rather than the lowest price in public procurement - can therefore help to achieve financial independence and create an eco-social and highly innovative market economy.
here too, it is a regulatory framework which can contribute to the growth of social entrepreneurship if the rules you adopt - i hope - facilitate the qualification of public contracts, both for social inclusion, innovation and environmental protection.
the purpose of this regulation is to establish a set of harmonised standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and, in particular, to ensure the application of a number of important criteria which improve functional, occupational and road safety for users, workers and environmental standards.
in this context, the introduction of new functional and occupational requirements in articles 7 and 8 can be considered a real success for the european parliament as a whole, which has succeeded in covering the risks that today affect many workers with often fatal consequences: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
the purpose of the measures is to simplify the current regulatory framework and introduce new administrative and technical requirements relating to environmental and safety aspects.
as regards vehicles used for specific agricultural and forestry purposes, it was considered that, as there were only a limited number of vehicles, it was not necessary to place excessive environmental and technical performance requirements on them.
as regards motorcycles, environmental requirements which would not be too burdensome for manufacturers to adapt were considered in this case, as they impact less than 3% of the total road transport mileage and therefore have almost no influence on air pollution.
it is an excellent piece of legislation, which strikes the right balance between the need to ensure a high level of safety in the road, labour and environmental fields.
our aim is to increase stability and ensure sustainable prosperity.
in the long term, we must expand emu even further if we are to ensure stability and sustainable prosperity.
our whole industrial policy - the third industrial revolution we are fighting for - is and must be a leading player in the fight against climate change.
but the ambitious targets we have are certainly those of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions, with all the initiatives that can be taken, and the text of the commission's communication on the reindustrialisation of europe speaks of eco-friendly buildings and vehicles and the green economy.
if we ask industry, at a time when there is no global agreement to reduce co2 emissions, to pursue objectives which they cannot achieve, we risk relocating industries, which will worsen the climate change situation.
in fact, forcing our companies to go beyond the borders of the european union is to encourage them not to comply with our rules, because producing in countries around the world where there are no very strict rules on co2 emissions is to have a bad environmental policy.
so i think that the demand for achievable targets is the best way of reconciling a correct, modern industrial policy, different from the industrial policy of the past, with a commitment to achievable and serious targets in the common action we all take to combat climate change.
i think of the heavier ones - roads, airports and railways - but i also think of the system of energy production and use, which for many activities, even modern ones, matters a lot.
these and many other elements – which the vice-president also referred to – should add up to improved competitiveness and a better investment climate.
now of course a better investment climate would also require social peace and better harmony.
haiti is a strategic platform, an environment conducive to investment, a springboard for european companies to participate in the reconstruction of the country and to prepare a strategic outpost for the region.
haiti has a climate and geography unlike any other, thousands of kilometres of white sandy beaches and a nature that is still largely untouched and unexplored.
haiti will recover, because we have realized that the vulnerability of haiti's already considerable territory will increase in the coming years at the rate of the progress of climate change announced for the west indies.
planning the territory also means avoiding the loss of millions of dollars in each climate disaster, it is creating an acceptable living environment for the haitian population.
in addition to the sustainability of public finances, member states need to focus on how to create sustainable and quality employment, how to invest in training and further education, and how to combat poverty and social exclusion.
the study on environmental issues for the 2020 phase is also commendable, as it allows the regulation to keep up with the latest technological developments.
the advantages which will result in terms of safety, environmental protection and the better functioning of the internal market are undeniable and that is why i voted in favour of it.
on the contrary, social enterprises play a key role in the development of european markets and the economy: they provide innovative responses to economic, social and environmental challenges through sustainable development, social inclusion and territorial cohesion.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation.
- i support the report by mrs anna rosbach on accession to the 'offshore protocol', part of the barcelona convention for the protection of the marine and coastal environment of the mediterranean, to which all the member states bordering the mediterranean are parties.
the protocol has proved to be an effective instrument for protecting the environment, with careful regulation of exploration and exploitation activities, the conditions for the granting of authorisations, the use and disposal of pollutants, provisions on safety and the management of emergency plans and monitoring.
it is important to adopt a body of laws governing the exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil, which guarantee safety and protect the environment.
− the offshore protocol against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed of the mediterranean sea is an important part of the barcelona convention which serves to help a number of member states in the eu.
this protocol allows for international cooperation in regard to oil and gas exploitation in the mediterranean sea, establishing requirements for exploration and technology which will improve the safety of these processes and help to safeguard against any negative environmental impact.
limiting pollution and forced land use is essential to safeguarding the ecosystem; i therefore voted in favour of the union's accession to the protocol on the protection of the seabed and the subsoil of the mediterranean against pollution.
- i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the accession of the european union to the protocol on the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the sea bed and its subsoil.
− the need for greater safety of offshore activities in the hydrocarbon sector has been dramatically highlighted by recent accidents, in particular the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010. considering that offshore activities in the mediterranean are set to increase following the discovery of new fossil fuel deposits and that such an incident could have immediate effects on a large scale on a semi-enclosed sea such as the mediterranean, with deleterious consequences for its economy and fragile ecosystems, and undermine the efforts made by the member states bordering the mediterranean to achieve and maintain good environmental conditions in their marine waters, there is a clear need for the sustainable management of offshore activities in the field of hydrocarbons.
− i am in favour of the report on the 'offshore protocol' as i believe that it is necessary to ensure greater safety of offshore activities in the hydrocarbon sector, especially following the dramatic incident in the gulf of mexico in 2010. offshore activities in the mediterranean are set to increase following the discovery of new fossil fuel deposits and such an incident could have immediate effects on a large scale on a semi-enclosed sea such as the mediterranean, with deleterious consequences for its economy and fragile ecosystems, and undermine the efforts of the member states bordering the mediterranean to achieve and maintain good environmental conditions in their marine waters, as required by the marine strategy framework directive.
given the importance of this protocol with regard to exploration and exploitation activities in the mediterranean, the disposal of hazardous waste and the removal of disused installations, i hope that it will be respected and implemented with provisions on safety and monitoring.
− i consider that the european union's accession to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from the exploration for and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil (the 'offshore protocol') is necessary in order to ensure more effective management of the risks inherent in offshore activities.
since member states have an obligation to ensure that their marine waters in the mediterranean are in good ecological condition, i welcome the eu's involvement in the development of safety in offshore exploration and exploitation.
- i am very pleased that the house voted in favour of the 'protocol on the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil'.
the mediterranean is not only a virtually enclosed sea, but also a unique marine ecosystem in terms of its size and diversity.
the mediterranean is also a source of economic prosperity for many countries, which live off tourism and the sustainable exploitation of its coasts.
we must therefore ensure that tourism and this very fragile ecosystem are best protected by ensuring a good level of cooperation between mediterranean countries in order to achieve the highest possible level of safety for offshore activities.
− exploration, exploitation and production of hydrocarbons in the mediterranean is set to increase as new fossil fuel deposits are discovered, thus necessitating the sustainable management of these offshore activities.
in fact, in addition to having serious economic consequences, an accident would undermine the efforts of the member states bordering the mediterranean to maintain their waters in good environmental condition.
this text is entirely consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fishing.
− whereas bilateral fisheries agreements with third countries (fpas) are a key element of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy (cfp) as they commit the contracting parties to promote responsible and sustainable fisheries policies, the current fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries.
− i believe that the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, the government of denmark and the local government of greenland is an opportunity to improve the sustainability, financial management and transparency of the fisheries sector.
most responses to the crisis are short-term, and aim to restore sustainability; however, it is worth looking a little further: we must not ignore the negative effects that austerity measures can have on employment and competitiveness.
in addition to ensuring the sustainability of public finances, member states must now focus equally on productivity, the distribution of labour, and education and training.
− small and medium-sized enterprises have a great potential for job creation and play a crucial role in the transition to a new sustainable economy.
− most recent and current responses to the crisis are based on short-term objectives, aimed primarily at restoring the sustainability of public finances, which is crucial for the eu economy.
this situation is compounded by the various austerity measures which, while restoring the sustainability of public finances, have a negative effect on employment and european competitiveness.
this vote, in order to restore sustainable growth in europe, is responding with well-targeted social investment aimed at preparing individuals, families and societies to adapt to the various transformations and to manage their transition to more flexible labour markets.
the european union should make efforts to make a sustainable model of agriculture exportable, as all its products must be sustainable.
the european agri-food sector can become increasingly competitive at global level if we can effectively promote our food diversity and our production model, characterised by high standards of productivity, safety, animal welfare and environmental sustainability.
however, whereas in the past promotion measures were defined to address agricultural surpluses and food crises, it is now necessary to define more clearly a promotion policy, aimed at stimulating and rewarding the quality and sustainability of european products.
i hope that the promotion policy will help to increase farmers' incomes and to export a sustainable model of agriculture and to promote local markets, and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
this approach could prove particularly important in mountain areas, where the permanence of high-altitude agriculture is one of the most important vehicles for avoiding abandonment and degradation of the land and the environment.
in fact, in response to consumer concerns, farmers in europe are facing increasingly stringent food safety, environmental and animal welfare standards than their competitors in the rest of the world.
− the european union has a duty to support the development of local and sustainable agriculture and to promote the diversity of its products.
whereas in the past promotion measures were defined to address agricultural surpluses and food crises, there is now a need to define more clearly a promotion policy aimed at stimulating and rewarding the production of specific products, including in quality schemes and agricultural practices that produce less co2 emissions, while protecting biodiversity and maintaining the quality of soils and water resources.
today's vote shows how we want a europe with more security and more protection for the environment.
all major european cities are aiming to reduce congestion, accidents and pollution.
the commission proposes to simplify the current regulatory framework and to add a point concerning the introduction of new administrative and technical requirements, particularly in view of the environmental and safety aspects of the motorcycle.
these vehicles are involved in 16% of the fatalities on european roads, although they account for only 2% of road traffic, and that is why we have approved stricter safety requirements, as well as imposing stricter targets to reduce polluting emissions.
- i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it will simplify the current regulatory framework and introduce new administrative and technical requirements relating to environmental, safety and market surveillance aspects of two- and three-wheel motor vehicles and quadricycles.
the aspects which, in my view, merit more attention are: the identification of a scope of the directive so as to eliminate certain inconsistencies and to meet the production categories, simplicity and clarity for the application timetable so as to avoid that producers would find excessive obstacles if they were called upon to introduce the novelties required by the rules without an adequate time-frame, the required environmental requirements whose adaptation does not represent an excessive burden for producers.
the new measures will not only simplify the regulatory framework but also improve environmental, safety and market surveillance aspects.
i believe that we need to be more rigorous in our emission standards, which, along with the introduction of a legal framework covering hybrid and electric vehicles, are essential to achieving functional environmental objectives.
as regards exhaust emissions, the vehicles concerned will have to be type-approved to the euro 3 standard from 1 january 2016, while compliance with the euro 5 limits will apply from 2016.
in writing.
this agreement represents a good compromise between the need to establish adequate safety standards and environmental protection, without at the same time penalizing the producers in the sector excessively.
the aim of this is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market while also ensuring greater protection of the environment, road safety and safety at the workplace.
- i decided to vote in favour of this measure as it allows for an update of the type-approval rules for agricultural and forestry vehicles in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market, while at the same time keeping in mind the need for a high level of environmental protection and road safety.
- i voted in favour of mr panzeri's text, which aims to establish a set of harmonised standards for the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles - tractors, trailers and towed equipment - in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market, while at the same time keeping in mind the need for a high level of environmental protection and road and work safety.
in particular, the g20 deliberated on a whole range of regulatory measures aimed at making the financial system safer and more sustainable.
social entrepreneurship combines issues such as public utility, social and environmental impact with factors such as increased profit-sharing or employee participation models and the principles of openness and transparency.
a lot of energy will have to be channelled into developing initiatives that help strengthen entrepreneurial skills and professionalisation.
i believe that a more substantial contribution should be directed towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the adoption of resolutions on the democratic uprisings in north africa and the middle east and on the situation in côte d'ivoire, as well as the special attention paid to climate change and agriculture, demonstrate the will to continue to achieve the objectives set.
i have not been contacted by any shale gas lobby, although i am on the environment committee and believe that it is a resource to be exploited with due care.
i would like to conclude by saying that i think it is important to take care of the environment but not to lose the opportunity to extract something that could make europe economically self-sufficient in terms of oil and gas extraction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we have had a debate in this parliament today on the subjects of industry, growth and employment, which, as the commissioner has just mentioned, began this morning with the debate in the chamber with commissioners tajani and andor and has in fact continued, because we have spoken at length about energy, addressing the problems of the car industry, and we now proceed with the question which i have put forward on behalf of the itre committee and which is being discussed in this house this evening.
already at the beginning of the year 2000 europe lost its primacy, giving way to china, and in recent years the european union has chosen to invest heavily in environmental issues - a choice which we share - but this has certainly meant an increase in costs in this area, together with an increase in the price of raw materials, the increasing cost of energy.
the completion of the internal market is crucial to affecting the cost of energy and particular attention should be paid to trade agreements with third countries.
china is the largest supplier, but it is not alone: it is not necessary to say that these countries are in fact producing under unfair conditions of competition, have inadequate rules on environmental protection and workers' rights.
more generally, outside the eu, the rules on state aid and duties are much different and less binding, and the cost of energy is lower.
it is among the world's leading manufacturers of stainless steel, high technology, strict quality control, pollution abatement, scrap recycling.
what strategies for reducing energy costs?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis has taken a heavy toll on all employment, on thousands of precarious workers, but also on permanent and temporary workers, who are numerous in this sector.
we must therefore also have a strong european approach to planning, which focuses on sustainability - which, in my view, is something we must not neglect - as a real added value with which we want to compete in the world, supporting investment, as has been said on many occasions, new technologies, new processes and the upgrading of plants, for a european economy which makes efficient use of resources, including energy resources, and indeed, starting with energy resources and also the search for new and different materials.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs sartori because this initiative allows us finally to discuss a problem which affects hundreds of thousands of workers who, because of the rash decisions which have led the european union to fight climate change unilaterally and excessively, are at risk of unemployment.
steelworks, being large energy consumers, are even more affected by the european commission's decision to withdraw some of the free ets allowances already distributed and by the desire to set a minimum price for future auctions.
but growth and innovation - let us be clear - must not be at the expense of other sectors which are also part of 'growth' and 'employment', such as cohesion policy and also - ladies and gentlemen - agricultural policy, which has increased employment and is increasingly geared to innovation and the protection of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the extraction of hydrocarbons, the so-called unconventional ones, including gas and shale oil, has brought about an unprecedented transformation in the global energy markets.
in such a context, it is necessary to monitor the rules on the extraction of shale gas within the union's borders so that the undoubtedly economically viable effects of its extraction do not create environmental problems due to the possible release of harmful substances into the groundwater and the atmosphere.
mr president, the measure we have adopted has two aspects: one is geopolitical, the other is environmental.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
this gas, which seemed harmless, now appears to have pernicious effects on the environment, on nature and on future generations.
but we will still have to go back to the merits to see the effects on the environment.
through the public hearing last week, you confirmed your commitment to issues that are very close to my heart, such as agriculture, the environment and the internal market.
winter, with its rigors and environmental difficulties, is now upon us, and the population fears it as if it were another calamity.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend the rules on the protection of the environment.
this is an agreement which has undoubtedly positive implications, on the one hand israel represents an interesting development opportunity for our companies; it also provides strong assurances that our rules and standards for production, the environment and society are being met.
i am therefore voting in favour of the agreement, since israel is not a threat as regards plant health checks on products and provides many guarantees as regards compliance with environmental, production and social standards, and since this agreement also represents an interesting development opportunity for our companies.
− in its communication entitled 'energy roadmap 2050', the commission underlines that, in the face of declining conventional gas production, europe will have to rely on substantial gas imports, as well as on its own natural gas and shale gas reserves, if any.
in recent years, the extraction of so-called 'unconventional' hydrocarbons, including shale gas and oil, has led to an unprecedented transformation of global energy markets: in particular, shale gas increased from 1,4% of the us gas market in 2000 to around 17% in 2011. global gas prices and trade patterns are changing, with clear consequences for the eu.
i believe that within the energy system shale gas and other sources of unconventional gas can open up new sources of supply for europe.
at the same time, there is a need to monitor the practices and regulatory regimes of shale gas extraction in order to make this operation economically viable, and to identify and address concerns about the effects of shale gas extraction on the environment.
- i voted in favour of mr sonik's report on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil extraction.
the fears surrounding the possible environmental impact and repercussions in extraction procedures are well known and have been raised in this report which calls on the commission and the national authorities to pursue specific scientific studies addressing these fears and demonstrating on a scientific, non-biased basis the reality of the facts and the real environmental problems that could result from the application of this type of extraction.
while this is a resource that could help ensure energy security and diversification in the medium and long term, making the european union less dependent and at the same time helping to reduce co2 emissions, there are also continuing concerns about the effects of extraction techniques on the environment.
the aim is to allow member states to extract shale gas and oil on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity and in compliance with existing environmental legislation.
there is still no commercial exploitation in the european union and the potential for reserves and possible impacts on the environment and public health need to be further examined.
however, the development and production of shale gas could lower prices by increasing competitiveness, creating jobs, reducing energy imports and improving the union's energy independence.
- i support the report by mrs tzavela, which analyses the industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil.
the fact that the european parliament is opposed to this, regardless of the will to deepen studies and research in this field, is in favour of dependence on foreign fossil energy sources.
the importance of using environmentally sustainable processes and techniques and the fact that the financing for the construction of the necessary infrastructure must be borne by the sector were also stressed.
the wealth of energy resources is an opportunity to be seized, which is essential to transform europe into a major energy power and to strengthen its independence.
european countries need more energy sources to break free from dependence on foreign energy supplies.
it is therefore essential to look at different sources of energy, including shale gas.
the use of this, although not the only solution to our energy needs, would be a huge advantage.
i think, however, that a cautious approach is necessary, as shale gas extraction involves possible environmental risks.
potentially large local energy resources.
to this end, a stable regulatory framework is essential, both to create an appropriate environment for the gas industries to invest in the necessary infrastructure as well as in research and development, and to prevent any market distortions.
as regards environmental and societal impacts, the best way to ensure meaningful and timely participation of local communities is through a mandatory environmental impact assessment, coupled with a high level of transparency and public consultation on proposed shale gas projects, irrespective of their duration and scope.
− the protection of the environment and the defence of citizens' rights and justice are the main concerns of the committee on petitions.
in 2011, the petitions received again mainly concerned alleged breaches of eu law on the environment, justice and the internal market.
i am, however, confident that, given the excellent climate of cooperation between the institutions, there is a chance of reaching an agreement on the budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution, starting from a shared principle, repeatedly invoked by myself, that recognizes the threat of climate change and the fact that it is a problem that must be addressed at international level, but by all parties, slips into error when it calls for the european union to act unilaterally with concrete initiatives to reduce emissions by at least 50% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
i believe, however, that in the face of the objective data which are ruthlessly invoked in the text of the world bank, it is necessary to put forward an idea which goes beyond the broadly acceptable one which forms the basis of the discussion we wish to have: we are facing a real environmental emergency, because the rise in the earth's temperature is not linear, and beyond a certain threshold, even one degree of temperature increase can lead to devastating conditions.
we urge kazakhstan to commit itself to the construction of the great transcaspian corridor, which is essential to strengthening energy security.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
that is what the environment committee of the european parliament asked for in the opinion on which i was rapporteur and which, despite some resistance in the committee on fisheries, will, i hope, be confirmed by the whole of this house tomorrow.
the conservation of shark stocks is a truly sustainable fishery.
the conviction has thus grown that the european commission's policy was to make all european fishing a single industry, following only the logic of the market and not listening to the arguments of thousands of fishermen who for a couple of decades have been operating under rules relating to the conservation of the ecosystem, with which i can only agree, but who have never preserved the work activities of the micro-economy of small-scale fishing.
i invite you to come and see for yourself in the productive environment of northern italy how much the agreements reached with the cmo have a positive or negative impact on our firms and our companies.
does anyone in this house have any doubts that china is unfairly competing, exploiting its workers, illegally aiding its companies, not respecting environmental issues?
i am ashamed to represent a europe which, when this survey is over, will have nothing in terms of photovoltaic energy.
it is about not being fooled, especially in a sector such as photovoltaics, which is so crucial to the sustainability of our future.
mr president, shark finning is unacceptable both from an environmental point of view, because it threatens the sustainability of certain species of sharks, and from a social and economic point of view, because it involves the waste of a food commodity of commercial value, and from an ethical point of view, because it shows a complete lack of respect for animal life.
by voting in favour, i express my will to take concrete action to promote sustainable fishing by applying new, clear and transparent rules.
- in adopting this document, parliament, in the light of the commission's proposal to the european parliament and the council, fully recognises the need for technical measures to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and the conservation of the ecosystems in which they live.
− the sustainability of fisheries must be ensured by enforcing compliance with technical conservation measures by fishermen throughout the european union.
clear technical measures will ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and the conservation of the ecosystems in which they live, as well as compliance with a number of restrictions necessary to protect the lives and safety of fishermen.
− technical conservation measures are rules that fishermen throughout the european union are required to respect on a daily basis in their fishing trips, to ensure that fishing is always sustainable, regardless of how and where it is carried out.
those measures concern, inter alia, minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh size of nets, no-take zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, criteria for the use of more selective fishing gear and measures to protect the marine environment, and therefore have a significant impact on the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
regulating shark fishing is not only a way of respecting the marine ecosystem but also of making the european market sustainable and fair and not just based on the logic of profit.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this decision was considered the only viable one by both the european commission and the envi committee, in order to conserve this animal species and at the same time protect the ecosystem.
the marine ecosystem is seriously damaged by this unsustainable fishing practice, especially in recent years in the mediterranean sea, where several shark populations have been recorded to be affected by this activity.
the practice of finning therefore needs to be transparent, controlled and, above all, regulated in order to be considered a sustainable and non-invasive fishery.
with today's vote we are calling for the sharks caught to be landed with their fins still attached to their bodies, so that the necessary checks can be carried out and that such barbaric acts by those who i do not think i can call 'fishermen' are discouraged by means of severe penalties, because they would bring into disrepute a category which i believe respects civil law and the marine ecosystem.
it is clear that this is an unnecessary barbarism, which does not respect animal life, nature and the environment, and which must therefore be stopped.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i think that we must reflect on the seriousness of this horrible practice from an environmental point of view, as regards the protection of certain animal species, but also from an economic point of view.
- shark finning is unacceptable both from an environmental point of view, as it threatens the sustainability of some shark species, and from a social and economic point of view, as it involves the waste of a food commodity with commercial value, and from an ethical point of view, as it shows a complete lack of respect for animal life.
i also believe that when defining the international regulatory environment for the internet and telecommunications, the open, competitive and innovative nature of the internet in the future must be guaranteed, as well as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression and assembly.
− as the durban package contains measures that have proved insufficient to deal with the consequences of climate change, i hope that the doha conference will provide a platform for dialogue, leading to the adoption of a legally binding global agreement.
the doha conference will have to provide the impetus to ensure that ambitious targets and specific instruments are pursued to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it is necessary to recognise the urgency of taking concrete measures, taking into account, for example, the positive results achieved by innovations in the field of sustainable energy, which can create jobs, increase growth and address climate change.
it is essential to create a climate of harmony and reconciliation between different nations and peoples, fostering economic, cultural and religious dialogue.
the peaceful settlement of conflicts and the establishment of good neighbourly relations between european countries are essential for sustainable peace and stability and contribute to a genuine process of integration.
in particular, the eu will have to commit itself to ensuring that smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is one of its priorities.
with this text we support the efforts of egypt to mediate for a rapid, sustainable ceasefire and welcome the mission of the united nations secretary-general to the region.
the latter is a solution which i believe has the potential to be long-lasting and sustainable.
the commission has therefore decided to make a further contribution to the development of the community's energy policy.
it is true that the effects of global climate change are becoming more and more severe, not only in terms of loss of human life, but also in economic terms of direct costs, for reconstruction and aid, and indirect costs, for the increase in the prices of insurance products and services.
i also believe that it is not necessary for all european policies, instruments and policy papers to include a specific analysis of climate risks.
in this regard, it is of fundamental importance to develop emergency plans to enable the european union to respond to the effects of natural disasters and climate-related crises occurring outside the union but having direct or indirect repercussions on the security of european countries, as in the case of climate migration.
− recently, public debate has focused on a number of priority issues, leaving aside the issue of climate change, whose impact on global security cannot be underestimated.
i believe that the security debate should be a starting point for re-examining the problem of climate change and natural disasters.
i believe in the eu's ability to improve its conduct in dealing with the risks of conflict and instability due to climate change and natural disasters, and that is why i am voting in favour.
− i believe that small-scale fishing should be recognised for a number of positive features including environmental sustainability by allowing the release of unwanted or illegally caught fish with a generally very low mortality rate.
in addition, this is a fisheries sector which has shown extraordinary resilience to the pressure of the current global economic crisis, and it is also economically sustainable in terms of the number of jobs it supports.
cooperation will be needed to ensure that concrete action is taken to ensure the sustainability of fisheries and respect for human rights in those contexts, which are today characterised by an odious climate of corruption.
it is also desirable that, in order to establish a new generation of sustainable fisheries agreements, those countries commit to respect the essential and fundamental elements of human rights and democratic principles as set out in article 9 of the cotonou agreement.
i am also pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is a very important step in the development of the european union.
the role of the european union and the commission must be exercised with a certain degree of caution, especially as regards the social sustainability of any reform in a hardworking, poor and highly dignified country, a country which i believe is worthy of recognition, but whose authorities must also be able to develop in the protection of human rights.
− madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs anna rosbach, who – speaking of antimicrobial resistance – has been contagious with her enthusiasm and energy on this subject which, of course, is extremely important, as many members have underlined.
we all know that resistant microbes can spread between humans, animals and the environment and through food, and this highlights the need for a coordinated approach across human and animal sectors.
the proposal has the great merit of helping enterprises in the member states to reach markets too far away to be directly served, to compete in a larger market, and to reward efficiency for more effective and sustainable growth.
that is why i voted in favour of the text by my colleague, which aims to encourage the participation of smes in the digital market, to overcome the current fragmentation of the digital market, to strengthen the sense of security and confidence of citizens in the digital single market and thus to aim at sustainable growth, creating new jobs within the european union.
small and medium-sized enterprises are able to offer a sustainable entrepreneurial programme to improve or consolidate the market and to create jobs, particularly for young people, but they are facing difficulties today more than ever due to the decline in domestic demand due to the economic crisis.
- i support the kovács report on the 'energy efficiency labelling programme for office equipment'.
- the development of activities under the energy star programme presents a number of difficulties, which the rapporteur has not overlooked and on which solutions of prudent compromise have been reached.
in order not to put the best in opposition to the good, there was an awareness that the current difficult financial situation is putting pressure not only on production systems but also, and especially in some countries, on local authorities, which are faced with serious problems of budgetary sustainability.
− i voted in favour of the report because eu regulation on energy efficiency labelling of office equipment will not only help consumers understand how much electricity the appliance needs, but will also inform them about energy consumption, allowing for more rational use of energy and promoting both energy savings and reduction of air pollution.
office equipment, including computers, printers and monitors, consume huge amounts of electricity and, although energy consumption varies greatly between countries and economic sectors, each country should improve the energy efficiency of its electrical and commercial equipment in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
reducing irrational consumption and eliminating energy waste today means not only reducing costs but also contributing to a cleaner environment, with a view to the future and the generations to come.
- i support the report by mr kovács on the eu programme on energy-efficiency labelling of office equipment.
− consider all necessary ad hoc changes to the energy efficiency of office equipment regulation, which are useful in order to pursue a high level of consumer and environmental protection, as well as to penetrate the market taking due account of the parameters identified by the energy star programme.
the long-term vision of the de quo project, which is aimed at the pursuit of energy efficiency objectives by each member state, and above all the particular interest in the ecolabel, a significant mark of the establishment of a framework for the environmentally friendly design of energy-related products, have made my vote favourable.
the digital single market can improve the quality and competitiveness of our businesses, thereby steering europe towards smart and sustainable growth.
− with the intensification of maritime traffic and the resulting pollution, the establishment of a european maritime safety agency (emsa) with increasing powers became necessary.
the amendments will in particular enable the agency to prevent and respond to environmental disasters such as oil spills, using the 'cleanseanet' information system, to work towards improving coordination between national authorities, enhancing prevention and promoting best practice, and speeding up the response to any disasters.
through its monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of relevant eu legislation, the agency contributes to ensuring maritime safety and preventing marine pollution from ships.
the amendment to emsa's regulations will allow the agency to expand its powers to prevent and respond to environmental disasters, improve coordination between national authorities, promote best practice, combat maritime piracy and improve the training of maritime personnel.
− considering that the maritime safety agency (emsa) was established to prevent marine pollution caused by ships, including by monitoring and evaluating the implementation of relevant eu legislation, and considering the strong advisory role it is called upon to play, the agency is considered to be an effective and well-managed organisation that allows member states to make considerable savings as it operates at european level and allows economies of scale to be generated.
− given the importance of the european maritime safety agency, i believe it is important to work towards implementing emsa's powers and making oil pollution monitoring tools more efficient.
the amendment of the regulation of the european maritime safety agency will allow the agency to have its powers to prevent and deal with environmental disasters extended and to also, at the explicit request of parliament, deal with the fight against maritime piracy.
this agreement, for which i voted in favour, seeks to create a suitable framework to provide social integration, cohesion and sustainable development, which are the key elements for achieving economic consolidation, growth and social and democratic stability.
− the exceptional challenges faced in colombia and peru in terms of human, social, labour and environmental rights in relation to products exported from these two countries require close dialogue between the commission and eu civil society organisations.
there is still substantial work to be done in this field but this agreement foresees an active role for civil society, especially as regards the monitoring of implementation of human rights and sustainable development provisions.
the report's guiding principles emphasise a holistic approach (in line with the 'one health' principle), integrating and enhancing cultural and educational aspects, prevention, attention to the sustainability and timeliness of mass immunisation systems and the promotion of research and development in a key sector of the eu economy.
we saw this year what happened: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment.
the proposal aims to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around airports.
the european union is at the forefront of environmental legislation and the fight against climate change, but it continues to set the pace when it comes to noise pollution.
people living near airports and in neighbouring areas suffer from the triple burden of noise, air and chemical pollution, which is why every effort should be made to achieve the full sustainability of airports.
these citizens are victims of a triple pollution: noise, air and chemical.
as the environment committee of the european parliament has clearly stated, however, the economic factor alone cannot and must not be taken into account: the protection of the health of european citizens living near airports must be our priority.
i believe that there is a real possibility of giving hope in a difficult climate such as the one in which the workers of the swedish brand are living, and i therefore vote in favour.
i believe that in order to manage the limited capacity effectively, it would be appropriate to strengthen the systems for band allocation and not to increase the infrastructure in order not to harm the environment.
the leichtfreid report is based on the international civil aviation organisation (icao) estimates that the number of european citizens exposed to noise emissions from airports is set to increase significantly over the next few decades.
− the adoption of additional noise abatement measures must be based on a systematic environmental monitoring and control process and a conservative approach, aimed at the early identification of necessary management and/or operational corrective measures.
− noise is one of the main environmental impacts of airport infrastructure.
updating and optimising existing measures is part of the union's special responsibility with regard to noise pollution.
i hope that the most appropriate measures will be identified to achieve the maximum environmental benefit at the lowest cost and that economic incentives will be considered if necessary.
− this vote is part of the so-called 'airports package' and concerns the commission's proposal to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around eu airports, within the international framework of the icao's balanced approach to noise management.
- considering that improving the efficiency of animal transport will have positive consequences in various areas, such as, among others, the reduction of co2 emissions, the development of 'local butchers' which will contribute to regional economic development, the transport of animals under more dignified conditions, the unification of community legislation in this field, i voted in favour.
in fact, there is a clear reference to the petition "8hours.eu" (signed by over a million eu citizens), it is emphasised that animals are sensitive beings, the need to manage the transport of animals both inside and outside the eu more effectively and the possibility of having local slaughterhouses which in addition to promoting rural areas reduce the distances to the slaughterhouses with the consequent reduction of co2 emissions.
at the same time, we must be firm in calling on the russian authorities to put an end to the widespread climate of impunity for human rights violations and the absence of the rule of law in the north caucasus.
− the development of the european union's common foreign and energy policy, in line with the principle of conditionality, should include russia as a strategic partner, provided that the fundamental values on which the union is founded are shared and upheld, including democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law.
sustainable political dialogue and sustained engagement in all priority areas will be essential to implement the reforms needed for albania's european future.
i would like to stress that all political parties and actors in albania, including the media and civil society, must work in the near future to improve the political climate in the country so as to allow for that dialogue and mutual understanding which are indispensable in the path to accession to the european union.
the steel industry is facing major challenges today, made inevitable by the current crisis and by increasingly fierce competition from third countries with less stringent environmental regulations and cheaper access to raw materials.
this would ensure a level playing field and stricter social and environmental standards.
to counteract the negative trend of recent years, it is therefore necessary to give serious thought to the introduction of measures to promote a purchase price for energy above the current average.