many of you have mentioned the energy efficiency directive.
− colleagues, 2012 is a very important year for europe, which will have to provide a credible and sustainable solution to the sovereign debt crisis.
costs in the food production and supply chain are increasing for a variety of reasons: increased requirements in phytosanitary, animal welfare, environmental, hygiene and food safety, all of which are the same in all member states.
food waste has reached such levels that it can be considered a global problem.
people on both continents waste up to 115 kg of food per person per year.
it is not overproduction of food, as is commonly believed, that is the main cause of food waste and consequently of hunger, but poor stock management and misguided marketing strategies aimed solely at maximizing profits.
however, the biggest impact on waste growth seems to be the use of a single 'use by' date on the labels.
this will ensure an appropriate level of protection in the areas of road safety, environmental protection and trade.
the benefits of such harmonised rules are felt in the areas of road safety, environmental protection and trade.
its 190 current member states cooperate in the fields of aviation safety, aviation security, air traffic management and environmental protection.
aircraft environmental standards).
the icao was established in 1944 and today its 190 member states cooperate in the fields of aviation safety, aviation security, air traffic management and environmental protection.
it aims to contribute to sustainable production and consumption, in particular by preventing waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) and by reusing, recycling and otherwise using that waste in such a way as to reduce waste disposal, increase resource efficiency and recover strategic raw materials.
this directive also aims to improve the environmental performance of all operators involved in the life cycle stages of eee, such as producers, distributors and consumers, and in particular those operators directly involved in the collection and treatment of waste eee.
the different application of the producer responsibility principle in different countries leads to a substantial variation in the financial burden on economic operators and to the impossibility of an effective waste management policy due to the different national strategies for the management of weee.
− electronic waste, if not properly disposed of, poses a risk to both the environment and human health.
the directive finally adopted today will establish both a clear framework for the management of such waste and, more importantly, will encourage some member states to take a more serious look at the existing disorder and lack of transparency in the electronic waste sector.
i believe that we must do everything we can to prevent the spread of waste electrical and electronic equipment and thus contribute to sustainable production and consumption.
it is essential to encourage consumers to also actively contribute to the collection of such waste by returning weee.
the development of common european standards for the collection and management of weee is also essential for efficient and environmentally sound waste recycling.
it should be noted that the inadequate management of waste electrical and electronic equipment, in particular if it is landfilled or incinerated, can have a significant negative impact on the environment.
implementation of the provisions of this directive will therefore ensure an adequate level of protection of human health and the environment.
the new regulation aims to improve the existing regulatory framework without compromising the high level of protection of the environment and human and animal health, to ensure the free movement of biocidal products on the union market and to reduce the administrative burden on companies and public authorities.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because the placing on the market and use of biocidal products must not have any direct or indirect undesirable effects on human and animal health or the environment.
since biocidal products can present serious risks due to their specific properties and uses, it is essential to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
i think this would not only allow farmers to reduce costs, increase their independence and their income, but also move towards a more sustainable and consumer-friendly way of farming.
for example, energy consumption has increased by around 60% over the last decade, while the purchase prices of agricultural products have increased by only 25%.
this report therefore proposes measures to increase the capacity of farms to save energy in buildings, farming, transport and invest in renewable energy production on the farm or on site.
such seeds have many economic and ecological benefits: they cost on average 40% less, allow farmers to grow crops adapted to the specific agronomic conditions of their regions, often require less fertiliser and at the same time preserve plant biodiversity.
i am talking in particular about the economical and efficient use of resources linked to production - energy, fertilisers.
changing the attitudes and habits of producers themselves would not only save resources and reduce costs, but also contribute to environmental conservation reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the release of chemicals into soil and water.
in addition, an efficient supply chain for the farm's production materials will contribute to a more efficient and sustainable use of production resources.
it is therefore essential to ensure that farmers receive the appropriate support to match agricultural and environmental performance with the new climate, environmental and economic challenges.
in order to increase farmers' purchasing power, they must be encouraged to organise collectively the storage and purchase of production materials and to form groups to better manage resources and apply sustainable farming practices.
i agree with the resolution that agricultural policy must enable small and medium-sized farms, including family farms, to earn a decent income, to produce sufficient quantities of food of appropriate quality at affordable prices, to create jobs, to promote rural development and to ensure environmental protection and sustainability.
attention should be paid to the fact that agricultural policy must enable small and medium-sized farms, including family farms, to earn a decent income, to produce sufficient quantities of food of appropriate quality at affordable prices, to create jobs, to promote rural development and to ensure environmental protection and sustainability.
it is estimated that 6-7% of gdp in the west (around eur 800 billion in the european union) is currently dependent on satellite navigation, which requires the creation of a legal and institutional environment for space policy to continue to develop successfully in the european union, and space services markets are growing rapidly.
according to a study published by the commission, some 89 million tonnes or 179 kg of food waste per capita are generated each year in the 27 member states.
i agree that more investment is needed in ways to reduce food waste, to reduce the losses suffered by agri-food businesses and to reduce food prices, thereby improving access to food for poorer populations.
the commission should also identify measures and actions to encourage greater involvement of agri-food businesses, wholesale markets, shops, distribution networks, public and private catering establishments and restaurants, public administrations and non-governmental organisations in the fight against food waste.
− i voted in favour of this report because the first important step in the fight against hunger in the world is to reduce food waste, to address the problems of the growth in demand forecast by the food and agriculture organisation (fao) and to improve the nutritional level of the population.
every year, more and more healthy and edible food is wasted throughout the food supply chain in europe, and in some cases, even after food reaches the consumer, it becomes waste.
food waste also has ethical, economic, social and nutritional consequences, as well as health and environmental consequences, as food waste contributes to global warming and food waste produces methane gas, which is 21 times more greenhouse gas-intensive than carbon dioxide.
the european parliament therefore calls on the council, the commission, the member states and the actors in the food supply chain to urgently address the problem of food waste throughout the supply and consumption chain and to establish guidelines and support ways of improving the efficiency of the food supply chain in each sector.
the european parliament also calls on the commission to assess and support advance measures to reduce food waste at the beginning of the chain, such as labelling with two expiry dates (sell by and consume by ) and selling expired or damaged products at a lower price.
- i support this resolution because food waste is a global problem and a food waste chain has already developed alongside food production.
the fight against food waste must be a priority on the eu's political agenda.
i believe that the commission should assess as soon as possible the possibilities of a coercive policy on food waste and set specific food waste prevention targets.
brazil can also be a great example for us to build energy self-sufficiency by supporting the production of biofuels.
energy services affect all aspects of people's lives and livelihoods.
this is particularly true in rural areas, which is why it is so important to strengthen the eu energy fund to support marginalised rural areas and dispersed households.
the promotion of and investment in renewable energy sources should become the main union action in this area.
the goal is clear: to provide affordable energy services to the poor, especially in rural areas.
by supporting biofuel energy initiatives, we would have a triple benefit: cheaper energy, a return to agricultural production and a reduction in unemployment by creating new jobs in the agricultural sector.
the union should develop clear guidelines on the criteria for financing and supporting the production of biofuels and alternative energy sources.
the seven emerging market economies (brazil, russia, india, china, indonesia, mexico and turkey) are projected to have larger economies than all the g7 countries (the united states, japan, canada, the united kingdom, germany, france and italy) by 2050. china is projected to become the world's largest economy by gross domestic product by 2020 and india could become the world's fastest growing economy by 2050. these countries will become increasingly important economically and politically on the international stage, especially in addressing global challenges such as the fight against climate change, international terrorism, the distribution of resources and rare earths, global political stability, etc.
this is particularly important if, as a region of the world, we are to continue to lead the reform of international governance and play a key role in finding a global solution to transnational challenges such as climate change, access to raw materials and rare earth metals, terrorism and global political stability and security.
it is projected that china will become the world's largest economy by gdp by 2020 and india may become the fastest growing economy by 2050. i supported this document because addressing international challenges such as climate change, global governance issues, access to raw materials and rare minerals, terrorism, the fight against radical non-state movements, sustainable development, global political stability and security will require a rules-based, integrative approach based on partnership, shared values and common consensus, comprehensive consultation and cooperation with new emerging market economies.
we, members of the european parliament, agree that there is additional need for sustainability, coherence and complementarity of humanitarian actions.
− i support this resolution, as fiscal stability is not only one of the key tools for overcoming the crisis, but also strengthens solidarity and ensures sustainable growth and employment.
it is welcome that the international agreement on a fiscal stability union will take due account of and pursue the objectives of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion.
the economic recovery requires measures to strengthen solidarity and boost sustainable growth and employment and insist that the european council decides on concrete and far-reaching measures.
the european parliament (ep) recognises that fiscal stability is an important component of the solution to the current crisis, but stresses that measures to strengthen solidarity and to promote sustainable growth and employment are needed to achieve economic recovery.
−fiscal stability is an important component of the solution to the current crisis, but the recovery of the economy requires measures to strengthen solidarity and to promote sustainable growth and employment.
we must all work towards fiscal stability, economic recovery, strengthening solidarity and sustainable growth and employment for our citizens.
in this context, constructive negotiations and mutually beneficial decisions are necessary to ensure a reliable supply of energy resources.
sport generates a high added value across the eu, contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and having a significant positive impact on social inclusion, education and training and public health.
the issue of sustainable financing of lithuanian sports should be further examined.
− i voted in favour of the resolution initiated by the ep (epp group) based on fact-finding visits and petitions of european citizens to the parliament concerning the environment, in particular the inappropriate application by the member states of the waste management directive (new plants, landfills and incinerators).
three main problems were identified: a lack of a sound environmental impact assessment and public consultations in the permission procedure for landfills; incorrect operation of waste management facilities and deficiencies in waste management systems.
i agree that the ep, at eu level, should urge the member states to speed up the transposition of the waste framework directive into national law, that there should be reinforcement of the existing european environment agency for monitoring purposes rather than creating new instances, and that the member states should be recommended to impose, in accordance with the polluter-pays principle, adequate and dissuasive fines and penalties for illegal disposal of waste, especially with regard to toxic and hazardous waste.
− the european parliament's committee on petitions receives an increasing number of complaints about the inability of the public authorities in many member states to deal adequately with the problem of waste management.
waste management is becoming a major political and social issue, and people are looking to the european union to solve it.
i agree that the commission needs to take a much bigger role and be much more active in identifying persistent shortcomings in the implementation of the waste directives by member states and taking action against member states if they fail to properly comply with their obligations under eu law.
− i voted in favour of this european parliament report because a large number of citizens of the european union are petitioning about the non-disposal of waste, and most of the petitions are related to waste treatment plants.
the apparent inability of public authorities in many member states to deal adequately with the problem of waste management is thus a determining factor in the increasing number of petitions.
the european parliament calls on the eu member states to transpose the waste framework directive into their national law without delay and to ensure that all the requirements set out therein are met, in particular the requirement to draw up and implement detailed waste management plans, as well as to amend in a timely manner all the targets set under eu legislation.
in addition, the commission should closely monitor the transposition of the eu directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law in the member states to ensure that this is done in a timely and effective manner.
however, in many countries the apparent inability of the authorities to deal adequately with the problem of waste management is a determining factor in the increasing number of petitions.
member states must ensure that any decision on a new waste management, in particular on the incineration or methane production of a facility or, in the worst case, the installation or construction of a new landfill, is subject to a full and mandatory environmental impact assessment.
the commission is invited to propose clearer and more specific criteria for the location of landfills, taking into account the distance to local dwellings, schools or health facilities, in order to provide greater guarantees for the protection of human health and the environment against potential hazards, bearing in mind that there are many variable and site-specific circumstances that need to be taken into account.
the recommendations in this report should help to improve the implementation of waste management policies in the future.
first, the need for the commission and the member states to pay greater attention to informing the public about the necessity and benefits of waste management.
secondly, the specific impact of the environmental impact assessment process on the transparency of waste management.
it is the lack of clarity and public awareness in the design and construction of waste management facilities (in particular incineration plants and landfills) that leads to waste crises and even disasters during the rdp (as shown by real examples in italy, spain and other countries).
in particular, in order to properly implement the waste management directive and other related legislation and to develop effective waste management strategies, it is necessary to allocate appropriate funding from the cohesion fund or the european investment bank for the installation of infrastructure and facilities.
in addition, member states must carry out monitoring, inspections and other necessary actions at all stages of the waste management chain.
i believe that common eu standards for the colour labelling of waste by category should be established for the sorting and recycling of waste.
it is also essential to ensure that environmental impact assessments are mandatory before any decision is taken on a new waste facility, in particular the installation or construction of a new landfill.
i think the commission should impose dissuasive penalties for illegal waste disposal.
in addition, greater attention should be paid to the impact of all forms of organised crime on environmental crime.
− i voted in favour of the resolution aiming to support the objective of universal energy access by 2030 bringing greater attention to how the international community could generate funding (usd 756 billion by 2032) for central and more sustainable forms of energy generation across the world.
i agree that the debate on sustainable energy access and consumption should be in parallel with the eradication of poverty with the establishment of a specific ‘energy and development’ programme within eu development cooperation policy.
moreover, the use of renewable energy resources should be at the heart, as they can offer an economic solution in developing countries with benefits to health, the environment and local development, as well as the fight against climate change.
we, members of european parliament, call on the developing countries to commit seriously to the goal of universal energy access, and recommend increased assistance to ministries of energy in developing countries to enable them to make the case for support, including the development of long-term sustainable energy strategies and improved regional cooperation in energy matters.
− i voted for this report because i agree that energy services affect all aspects of human life and livelihood and that without access to these services, entire communities are condemned to poverty.
the european union must therefore, in contributing to the millennium development goals, continuously seek ways to contribute as effectively as possible to the accessibility of energy services for all.
the european parliament stresses in its resolution the need to increase the use of renewable energy sources and calls for eu financial support to be directed specifically to promoting the use of these resources.
the european parliament also notes that the european energy fund is one of the few financial mechanisms operating on an international scale and that it is therefore necessary to review the effectiveness and efficiency of the mechanism in the preparation of the new multiannual financial perspective (2014-2020).
in its report, parliament also stressed that an effective partnership between the public sector, the private sector, communities and local authorities will be needed to expand access to sustainable energy services.
parliament also recognises that the public sector alone cannot meet all the financing needs needed to expand access to electricity, and therefore draws attention to the importance of private investors and market-oriented reforms in the energy sector.
− i voted for this document because access to modern energy services is essential to reduce poverty and promote sustainable social development of people.
unless decisive action is taken to improve the situation, some 67% of the population will still be without access to electricity in 2015. over the past decade, access to energy resources for the poor has been modestly funded.
bilateral cooperation between eu member states in energy aid has been directed primarily at economic growth and environmental objectives, rather than at the access of the poor to energy resources.
transparent, democratic participation of civil society, local authorities and regulators in the energy sector is important to enable them to monitor the implementation of universal energy access, to ensure good governance and fair competition and to curb corruption.
− i support this resolution, as access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for reducing poverty and ensuring sustainable social development.
each country is responsible for ensuring access to universal services, but not every developing country is able to ensure access to energy resources for poor people on its own.
the eu needs to develop clear and precise guidelines on environmental sustainability criteria and other initiatives to ensure that modern sustainable energy services are available to all.
it is worth noting that developing countries are currently under-represented and under-funded in terms of increasing access to energy resources for the poor.
indeed, the current economic and financial crisis has led to a significant increase in the debt of member states, and robust fiscal consolidation and a fairer and more accurate distribution of the tax burden are therefore essential to ensure fiscal sustainability.
taking into account the interests of citizens and businesses, a clear, transparent and stable tax environment should be established, which would eliminate the cross-border tax obstacles, discrimination and double taxation of citizens and businesses that currently still exist.
we, members of european parliament, recall the parliament’s invitation to the commission during the early steps of the implementation of the third energy package to closely monitor the level of competition; it also asks the commission to intensify the efforts that it is making in order to open up competition in the credit rating agencies sector.
- i voted in favour of this document because the economic prosperity of the union depends on sustainable creativity and innovation.
− i supported the conclusion of the memorandum of understanding as it appeared to be relevant to the needs of guinea-bissau as a key contributor to macroeconomic and budgetary stability and as a driver of the country's fisheries policy, as it provided the financial conditions for the implementation of important measures in the sector to support economic development and sustainability (which, according to the evaluation report, represented on average 7.3% of annual government revenues and about 88% of budgetary expenditure on fisheries).
it is also appropriate to suspend the application of the protocol if guinea-bissau does not make efforts to make its fisheries responsible and sustainable.
this has led to market uncertainty, a difficult economic climate, a lack of legal certainty and high costs for dual payment systems.
this should go hand in hand with the european council's budgetary incentive to invest in sustainable job creation in as many sectors of the economy as possible.
therefore, only joint action and coherent policies can ensure sustainable growth.
as energy prices rise, the high cost of heating puts more working families and families with children in poverty.
strengthening the bargaining power of producers will increase the overall productivity, competitiveness and sustainability of the sector.
unfortunately, even when we express our views on important issues (such as demography or biodiversity conservation), these messages often replicate each other and do not offer anything new, much less a solution to the problem.
however, the european parliament draws the attention of the commission and the member states, reiterating once again that the common bond issue is conditional on the establishment of a sustainable fiscal framework aimed at strengthening economic governance and promoting economic growth in the euro area, and that it is essential to establish the appropriate sequence of actions, including the development of a binding action plan.
− i support this resolution because it is necessary to create a sustainable fiscal system that will use effective measures to strengthen economic governance and stimulate economic growth in the euro area.
the growing number of people at risk of low income, the growing risk of child poverty, severe material deprivation and social exclusion require measures to ensure sustainable, progressive, sustainable and inclusive growth, investment and tax reform to support sustainable job creation, to improve the quality of jobs and conditions for greater participation in the labour market, to combat youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, and to enhance democratic legitimacy, accountability and responsibility.
with a well-thought-out and targeted approach to limited resources, it is possible not only to stimulate job creation but also to pursue broader objectives such as 'growing the economy' and creating a competitive low-carbon economy.
the eu must be given budgetary freedom and investments in sustainable and good jobs must be encouraged.
it is necessary to take measures as a matter of urgency to create a stable and attractive environment for investors, in particular through the creation of project bonds, which would contribute to the financing of major infrastructure projects and would contribute to the promotion of sustainable growth and employment in the long term.
the 2012 european semester is the first to be implemented on the basis of a legally strengthened economic governance framework (a set of six pieces of legislation), but i believe that in the future it needs to be much more focused on strengthening the social dimension, which in turn would contribute to the sustainable economic recovery and growth of the member states.
− i have supported this document because the concrete decisions that all institutions are taking on a daily basis to address the problems of the current sovereign debt and financial crisis should be linked to a particular focus on medium- and long-term growth-enhancing measures and a thorough review of the overall economic framework to ensure greater sustainability, competitiveness and long-term success of the european economy.
efforts at national and eu level should focus on five priority areas, namely differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation to ensure economic recovery and job creation; securing long-term financing of the real economy; promoting sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment; tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; and modernising eu public administration and services of general interest.
in deciding on budgetary expenditure and revenue, member states should give priority to pro-growth policies such as education, research, innovation, infrastructure and energy policies and ensure that expenditure and revenue are planned effectively.
due to the russian and chinese veto, the security council was unable to support the call of the league of arab states for an inclusive syrian-led political process conducted in an environment free from violence, and we deeply regret that.
− under the implementation plan adopted at the 2002 united nations world summit in johannesburg, the european union has committed itself to maintaining or restoring fish stocks in order to achieve the maximum sustainable yield, with a view to achieving these objectives in respect of depleted stocks without delay and, if possible, by 2015 at the latest.
the objective of this plan is to maintain a sustainable exploitation of the western atlantic common sole, ensuring its biomass, and to provide for the best long-term use of the stock.
− i voted in favour of this resolution because it is essential to ensure that living water resources are used in a sustainable way to ensure economic, environmental and social conditions.
it is worth noting that the multiannual plan for the exploitation and fishing of western atlantic hake is an essential conservation measure to ensure the sustainable and long-term exploitation of the stock and to facilitate the better performance of fisheries operators.
parliament called for this reform to enshrine the sustainable exploitation and conservation of fish stocks as one of the main ideas of the reform of the common fisheries policy.
providing for better access to eu support funds for those undertakings that engage in sustainable fishing.
− i voted in favour of this document because the preservation of healthy fish stocks, healthy marine ecosystems and marine biodiversity is an important common asset that must be preserved.
the fisheries sector is an important eu industrial sector, providing high quality food for eu citizens and creating economic and social added value in the eu, and the reformed cap must therefore ensure the sustainable use and conservation of fish stocks and maintain adequate levels of fish stocks to ensure the long-term viability of fishing activities in traditional zones and communities.
this agreement is a constructive step towards promoting political stability and mutual sustainable economic development.
the environmental outlook is also negative and casts doubt on the eu's principle of environmental protection and the expected mitigation of climate change.
the european commission has not always assessed the social, economic and environmental impact of this agreement, but has focused on tariff issues.
these are still under-solved and unequally treated problems in europe and i believe, with improved support and further actions identified, europe will improve the living environment for its citizens.
− i voted in favour of this european parliament report because cooperatives defend the interests of their members and consumers, seek to overcome societal challenges and seek not only to increase the benefits to members and secure their livelihood through long-term and sustainable business policies, but also to place the well-being of customers, employees and members throughout the region at the centre of their business strategy.
moreover, a gender balance in decision-making at different levels is economically beneficial and creates a favourable environment for competent and capable people to assume leadership and supervisory responsibilities.
the task of higher education is to create, without any discrimination, a learning environment for all that encourages autonomy, creativity, access to quality education and knowledge-building, and it is therefore important to ensure that the entire academic community, in particular students, teachers and researchers, is involved in the design of university courses.
that is what we are working towards with the single market act and that is why, mr cancian, we have identified, among the 12 levers of growth, communications, the infrastructure we need for energy, transport and digital.
in addition, there are additional pressures on the sustainability of pension and social security systems.
on the other hand, we can create the conditions through this internal market ecosystem that are conducive to trust.
− i agree with the honourable member about the importance of economic growth, but please do not forget that the very first contribution of this commission two years ago was the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the fund should, in particular, be used for productive activities such as fleet renewal and modernisation, enhancing operational sustainability, improving the selectivity of fishing gear and supporting the development of coastal communities.
in particular, they face problems of economic growth and financial stability, and their deficit and debt situation is deteriorating, driven by the international economic and financial environment.
in particular, as we move towards the sustainability and conservation of the common fisheries policy in the new financial programming period, it is important that the sector itself is preserved and prepared for change.
the eu budget as a solidarity measure should not be reduced in 2013 as eu-funded programmes and measures aim to contribute to long-term and sustainable growth in all eu member states, to promoting employment and to further the development of the member states themselves.
the eu needs to be more determined in its efforts to achieve long-term and sustainable economic growth, eu added value, employment and job creation in all eu member states.
the budget should include specific actions to support sustainable and long-term industrial policy, competitiveness and smes.
it is also necessary to ensure that the eu consistently pursues such positions in all areas, in particular trade and development, to ensure the proper implementation of human rights, social and environmental standards and to apply appropriate sanctions where these standards are not respected.
the european commission should ensure that all trade agreements include effective provisions on poverty reduction and the promotion of decent and safe working conditions and that agreements establish legally binding conditions relating to and the implementation of internationally recognised human rights, social and environmental standards, as well as measures to be applied in the event of violations.
governments, the global industry, cocoa producers, trade unions, non-governmental organisations and consumers, to fulfil their respective commitments in the fight against all forms of forced child labour and child trafficking, to share experiences and to cooperate in order to make the cocoa supply chain sustainable and to eliminate the use of child labour.
i agree that the commission must ensure that all trade agreements include effective provisions on poverty reduction and the promotion of decent and safe working conditions and that agreements include legally binding conditions relating to and enforcement of internationally recognised human rights, social and environmental standards, as well as measures to be applied in the event of breaches.
it will lead to the strengthening of the global cocoa sector, supporting its sustainable development and increasing the benefits to all stakeholders, will provide an appropriate framework for discussion on all cocoa matters among governments and, with the private sector, will strive towards obtaining fair prices, will promote a sustainable cocoa economy in economic, social and environmental terms, will promote transparency in the world cocoa economy, and in particular in the cocoa trade, through the collection, analysis and dissemination of relevant statistics and the undertaking of appropriate studies, and will also promote the elimination of trade barriers.
the eu, as the world's largest chocolate industry, is very much concerned by this agreement and as the world's largest importer of cocoa, it has a certain responsibility to promote the sustainability of the sector.
i support the objectives of this agreement, which aim to ensure greater transparency and economic sustainability in the cocoa sector, fair and transparent cocoa prices and revenues for cocoa farmers, with significant benefits for small farmers and communities in cocoa-growing countries.
− i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation because the new agreement aims to bring more transparency and sustainability to a sector on which the livelihoods of 50 million people worldwide depend.
this agreement should contribute to strengthening the national cocoa economies of the member states, to achieving fair prices that help to ensure fair revenues for cocoa farmers and consumers, and to promoting an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy.
the new pact sets clear objectives for a sustainable cocoa economy, recognising the importance of economic viability and social and environmental responsibility at all stages of the value chain.
in particular, this agreement will promote an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy.
it will also create favourable conditions for fairer and more sustainable global trade in cocoa and strengthen international cooperation between producers and consumers.
− i voted in favour of the report, because it marks an important step towards sustainable, fair, child-labour free cocoa production.
member states are to develop, implement and monitor national diabetes programmes aimed at promoting health, reducing risk factors, improving prognosis, prevention, early diagnosis and treatment of diabetes, covering both the general public and high-risk groups, and aimed at reducing inequalities and optimising health resources in order to achieve the objectives of noncommunicable diseases and to address public health, social and economic challenges, it is important that the eu and the member states focus more on prevention and risk reduction in all relevant legislative and policy areas, in particular environmental, food and consumer policies.
in addition, an environment conducive to greater business investment should be created and smes should be supported more effectively, and good practice in advising business community representatives should be continued.
welcomes the progress made by iceland in the protection of human rights and in ensuring a high level of cooperation with international human rights organisations; iceland's membership of the european union would significantly enhance the eu's ability to play a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic, and thus contribute to multilateral governance and sustainable policy solutions in the region, given the mutual concern for the protection of the arctic environment.
iceland's membership of the eu would significantly enhance the union's ability to play a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic, and thus contribute to multilateral governance and sustainable policy solutions in the region, given the mutual concern for the protection of the arctic environment.
i believe that, as the adoption of the new common fisheries policy approaches, it is essential that sustainable and resource-efficient fishing is implemented, even in non-eu countries that are closely linked to the eu.
and in the media, the ruling party and the candidate for power had a greenhouse condition, while the opposition had political troublemakers and a cold.
of course, belarus is a small country, lacking in natural and energy resources.
the report by mr davies on the roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 requires a thorough analysis and evaluation of its provisions in view of its impact and implications for the future.
the so-called fight against global warming, which is unilateral because it is only european, is becoming dangerous for the competitiveness of individual economies.
the measures proposed in the report will have a significant impact on energy prices and production costs in the new eu member states, which is unacceptable.
but co2 emissions trading and the proposal for a rapid transition to a low-carbon economy will slow this development.
the ideology of fighting global warming must not be allowed to limit the development of new members of the union.
promoting low-carbon energy is cooling down, not strengthening the european economy.
− i voted in favour of this resolution on the competitive low carbon economy in 2050. i believe that our future lies in the development of clean technologies and sustainable rural development.
our common european climate change policy strategies and the global race for the efficient use of resources need to be seen as opportunities.
therefore, it is important to indicate clear guidelines for the period after 2020 and to encourage investments in sustainable technologies.
it will be important to give incentives for the development of low carbon technologies, particularly in the context of the european funding programme for research and innovation, horizon 2020.
in writing.
the european parliament and the european council aim to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 80-95% by 2050. however, it is already clear that this will be difficult to achieve, as no specific targets and measures to reduce emissions have yet been agreed.
it is also necessary to maximise energy efficiency, to promote the development of renewable energy and to take decisions on energy storage, energy efficiency and the development of efficient energy transmission infrastructure.
the eu must also play a more active role in international fora and negotiations and bring together other countries to reach an ambitious, comprehensive and legally binding agreement on climate change as soon as possible.
− i voted in favour of this european parliament report because it is necessary to assess and seek to eliminate the risk that, on a global scale, if insufficient efforts are made, actions taken within the european union may lead to a shift in market share and the use of less efficient installations in other countries, leading to an increase in global emissions, i.e.
carbon leakage.
the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to propose, over the next two years, the measures necessary to achieve the 2030 targets, taking into account the specific national capacities and potential as well as international progress in the implementation of climate protection measures.
it is important to note that the creation of a low-carbon economy would provide many opportunities for creating additional jobs, while ensuring economic growth and providing a competitive advantage to european industry.
− i abstained in voting in favour of this document because i believe that the adoption of the plan, together with the prospect of reducing emissions and the intermediate stages proposed in the plan for european competitiveness, will create obstacles and will be of little use.
the european union currently emits only 11% of the world's carbon dioxide, and our actions alone are not slowing down the warming process.
i agree that we need to support technologies that are leading the way and invest in processes that are much more efficient in the use of energy and resources.
however, it should be borne in mind that china still accounts for 70% of its electricity supply and there is no guarantee that its targets in the current five-year plan, which prioritises green investment in low-carbon technologies, will be met, although this is envisaged to a much larger scale than in europe.
i am convinced that there is a real reason to believe that carbon leakage may occur when companies move from europe to avoid the higher costs of implementing measures to reduce carbon emissions.
these changes would not benefit the european economy and would do nothing to reduce global emissions.
secondly, i would like to stress the need to increase energy efficiency and promote renewable energy (alongside the development of smart grids).
energy efficiency (as well as other resource efficiency) would not only contribute to reducing carbon dioxide emissions, but would also have positive economic effects by saving on increasingly expensive raw materials.
the eu and russia are mutually dependent, but the eu's strategic partner is not afraid to take advantage of the eu's member states' disadvantages, for example in the energy sector.
it is essential to continue to work towards strengthening relations and political and economic cooperation between the european union and kazakhstan, including in strategic areas such as democracy, human rights, environmental protection, energy, trade and transport, as well as the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking.
the european union and kazakhstan should seek to strengthen political and economic cooperation in areas such as democracy, respect for human rights, environmental protection, energy, trade and transport, as well as the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking.
calls on the nigerian president to promote interreligious and interfaith dialogue and to promote freedom of thought, conscience and religion; the nigerian government should further analyse the root causes of the conflict, including social, economic and ethnic tensions, and avoid generalising and oversimplifying purely religious explanations that will not provide a basis for a long-term and sustainable solution to the problems of the region.
climate change and population growth amplify the problems.
population growth, deforestation, biological and chemical pollution and climate change threaten the security and reliability of water supplies.
− i voted for this european parliament resolution because technological innovation can increase the efficiency and sustainability of water resources, and in particular can be used for the benefit of developing countries.
water is particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change, which may lead to a reduction in the quantity and quality of available water, in particular drinking water, and to an increase in the frequency and intensity of floods and droughts.
water management has a direct impact on human health, energy production, agriculture and food security, and effective water management is a key element in poverty reduction.
technological innovation could increase the efficiency and sustainability of water resources and in particular benefit developing countries.
much still needs to be done to implement the obligations and agreements undertaken by serbia – especially as regards improving the business environment.
this will undoubtedly have an impact on the development of greater industrial sustainability and quality standards, as well as on alternative rubber.
i support the proposal that the fixed amount for each resettled person shall be eur 6 000 in the first calendar year, eur 5 000 in the second and eur 4 000 in subsequent years – the funding to be invested in the development of a sustainable resettlement programme.
the european parliament called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of the environment, and on the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of the environment, which was adopted in december 2005. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected from the threat of violence and that the eu's citizens are protected from the threat of violence.
the european union attaches importance to turkey's economic and growth potential and its important role in ensuring regional stability and energy security.
by delaying the opening of the 15th negotiation chapter ‘energy’ we risk losing the momentum gained in the eu-turkey’s intensified dialogue on energy.
i agree with the position expressed by parliament that the business sector should take account of social, ethical and environmental concerns, as well as to achieve better economic performance and to promote job creation.
i support the cooperation between the eib and the commission in developing innovative financial instruments to promote the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and climate action needs.
in addition, cooperation between the eib and the european commission is needed to develop innovative financial instruments to support the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to implement actions to boost the economy and combat climate change.
in its financing activities in the european union, the eib focuses on six policy priorities: economic and social cohesion and convergence; the implementation of the knowledge economy; the development of european transport and access networks; support for smes; the protection and enhancement of the environment and the promotion of sustainable communities; and the promotion of sustainable, competitive and secure energy.
this is why it is all the more important that democracy develops in the caucasus region and that we establish close trade links with these countries, as well as that energy projects such as the trans-caspian pipeline, which have been launched, continue successfully and offer particularly wide-ranging opportunities for ensuring the energy independence of the european union.
in the 19th century azerbaijan became the main actor in european energy matters and now that is going to be repeated at a time when europe is concerned about its own energy independence.
the eu needs azerbaijan for the purpose of european energy independence.
global crises in finance, food and energy seriously hurt our economies.
− i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to examine how the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth can be achieved in the outermost regions of the european union.
− i voted in favour of this report because cohesion policy must be integrated into the europe 2020 strategy and the outermost regions intend to cooperate in the implementation of the five objectives in the fields of employment, innovation, education, social inclusion, climate and energy, which must be achieved by 2020. the outermost regions have a justified special status enshrined in the treaty, as they face specific difficulties linked to their physical and structural circumstances, mainly due to their remoteness, isolation and difficult topographical and climatic conditions.
in view of the rapidly changing business environment, more flexibility and freedom should be introduced for the renewal of a project already submitted.
greater support must be given to those partners who are engaged in building deeper and more sustainable democracy and supporting inclusive economic development.
azerbaijan plays a positive role in the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy and contributes to the eu's energy security challenges.
− eu-azerbaijan relations have been steadily strengthening over the past years, with cooperation becoming closer, particularly in the energy and transport sectors.
− azerbaijan is an important partner for the eu in its energy trade.
it is particularly important to emphasise the independence of the judiciary, transparent procurement procedures, the separation of politics from business and the need to dismantle oligarchic economic structures, reliable judicial processes that ensure fair trial and access to justice for all citizens, a safe environment for investigative journalism and access to information, independent and social media.
we take care of everything, but taking care of climate change and helping third countries and many other things requires not a lot and not a little money.
this voluntary partnership agreement not only aims to improve the standards, sustainability and accountability of the forest sector, but also has the potential to have a positive impact on the overall development and economic growth of the central african republic, including by ensuring revenues from timber exports to the eu and other international markets.
− i voted in favour of the agreement as it establishes a partnership instrument to improve management standards, sustainability and accountability in the forest sector.
the definition of legal timber used in liberia is not limited to the products listed in the voluntary partnership agreement, but also applies to wood chips, logs and wood furniture and covers various aspects of timber production, including the granting of logging rights, labour rights and environmental obligations.
the vpa has not only helped to create a partnership instrument that will enable liberia to prevent deforestation and forest degradation that contribute to climate change, but should also improve the chances of liberian timber products establishing themselves in european and other international markets.
in addition, it is necessary to strengthen the legal framework to promote sustainable forest management and to involve local communities in the decision-making process.
the commission's proposal on energy products and electricity taxes is indeed a major contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases set out in the eu's 2020 strategy.
the commission proposes to split energy taxation into co2 taxation and energy value taxation.
this means that a single minimum rate of co2 emissions (eur 20/t co2) will be set for all sectors not covered by the eu emissions trading system.
in addition, each energy product will be taxed according to the amount of energy that can be extracted from it.
− i voted in favour of this report as it is a major contribution to the implementation of the european union's strategy europe 2020 on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
the main objective of the current energy taxation directive, adopted in 2003, is to prevent distortions of competition in the energy sector of the internal market.
with this proposal to amend the directive, the european commission aims to bring together four themes: climate change, energy efficiency, the internal market and the promotion of growth and employment.
it is important to adapt the energy tax structure in order to contribute to the objective of transitioning to a low-carbon, energy-efficient economy and to avoid problems in the internal market.
the commission proposes to tax energy on two bases: the amount of co2 emitted and the energy value.
this communication, which includes a co2-related element in energy taxation, aims to bring energy taxation into line with the eu's commitments to combat climate change.
− i would vote against, because although energy price increases encourage more efficient use of energy, the negative consequences of energy price increases ultimately outweigh the positive effect.
moreover, recent scientific developments in europe show that the use of diesel engines can be partly used to reduce co2 emissions.
the european commission is surprisingly inconsistent in wanting to end automatic wage indexation where it still applies, but, on the same grounds, it proposes to introduce it in the area of energy taxation.
the collection of revenues through energy taxes reduces people's incomes.
− when we consider the issue of energy products and electricity taxes, we are not only talking about eu energy policy, but also about eu environmental policy.
in the debates in this chamber, it is often the lament of members that we have too few concrete measures to combat climate change.
i therefore welcome the proposal put forward by mr algirdo šemetė, member of the european commission, in particular because it ensures fairness and uniform rules for the taxation of different energy sources by means of a uniform calculation methodology.
i agree with the general provisions on the need to change the energy taxation system to promote energy efficiency and the use of less polluting fuels.
if we are to achieve our climate change and energy efficiency goals, we will have to take this step.
however, i also support a longer transitional period to allow the energy and automotive industries to adapt to the new requirements and the requirement that the ec carry out an impact assessment analysis and only then take appropriate action.
the proposed taxation of energy products and electricity will have a significant negative impact on the autonomy of member states' energy tax regimes and on companies operating in the energy market.
i believe that member states should choose the most appropriate measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it should be noted that energy prices have increased recently and are high.
this directive should not apply to energy-intensive industry.
- i supported this report because i agree with its main idea: the rules on energy taxation must be adapted to today's realities and the eu's aspirations.
a double taxation system, whereby part of the tax is determined by the co2 emissions of the fuel and part by the energy value of the fuel, will create a level playing field for all fuels.
new tax rules are particularly important if europe is serious about meeting its climate change commitments by 2020. the commission proposal will only set a minimum tax base.
there is a lack of understanding of the relationship between gender and climate change, and perhaps that is why mr griffin has not understood the problem well enough, and that is what he said today.
while climate change affects all humanity, the recurrence of natural disasters has shown that women and children are still the most affected and the most affected by natural disasters.
the poorest women in developing countries are the most vulnerable to climate change, because they do the hard physical work of running the household, working in agriculture, which is really detrimental to their health.
unfortunately, women often lack access to health services, and climate change will require even more physical and mental strength from women now and in the future.
unfortunately, this also hinders a better understanding and appreciation of the gender dimension of climate change.
the future will be marked by increasing climate change impacts, and the fight against climate change must be a priority for the european union.
– i supported the report on the impact of climate change on women because it raises a very specific aspect of environmental policies.
climate change is not only about nature and natural resources.
human rights and human well-being are challenged by climate change as well.
the report clearly shows how the environmental policies can promote equality between women and men if they are adjusted to meet the specific needs of women.
the issue is particularly important since women play a much more significant role in climate-change-related activities than men.
therefore i support the rapporteur’s call to the european institutions and national governments to make more efforts to make their environmental policies more gender sensitive.
today we are discussing the future guidelines for eu environmental policy.
this is a relatively new and fast-developing policy area, and it is not surprising that with each environmental action programme adopted new regulatory areas emerge and that existing regulation is often tightened during the programme's lifetime.
new scientific data and technical possibilities, as well as accidents with an impact on the environment, mean that the concept of a 'high level of environmental protection' must be constantly reviewed, raising the bar higher and higher.
one of the aspects to which we should pay attention in the forthcoming seventh environment action programme is the improvement of the environmental impact assessment process, ensuring its independence.
i therefore call for the independence and objectivity of the eia process to be established as one of the environmental policy priorities and for discussions on possible mechanisms to start now, without waiting for the eia directive to be revised.
this project has been running since 1988 and aims to demonstrate that fusion energy could be a highly useful source of energy in the eu, with the long-term reliability of energy supply and the diversity of energy sources.
a competitive digital single market would remove all remaining barriers to cross-border e-services, contribute to employment, sustainable economic growth, in particular in the area of smes, and allow for the modernisation of public administration and the reduction of the cost of public services.
ict can therefore play a major role in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in the areas of employment, sustainable economic and productivity growth, empowerment of citizens in research and technological development, energy, innovation and environmental protection, and in addressing major societal challenges.
furthermore, remote computing resources services are an economic and ecological measure aimed at improving the performance of public and private companies' computing activities and reducing the costs of data processing and storage.
competitive digital single market measures are therefore necessary to ensure the successful deployment of ultra-fast broadband and telecommunications networks in all eu regions and to eliminate disparities in the level of infrastructure deployment within and between member states in order to ensure the demographic sustainability of sparsely populated regions.
as the report notes, an important objective of the digital agenda for europe is to promote transparent and sustainable e-government.
however, we should have clear priorities: it is not possible to successfully develop e-government structures until the real power is transparent and sustainable.
the invitation and participation of foreign observers and journalists, including the representative of the european parliament, in the elections demonstrates the determination of the government of burma (myanmar) to continue the reform process, which should be sustainable and irreversible.
back in 2000, at the united nations millennium summit, 189 nations around the world adopted the millennium development goals, which they committed to achieving by 2015. these goals include halving global poverty by 2015, reducing by two thirds the under-5 mortality rate, reducing by three quarters the maternal mortality rate, halting the spread of hiv/aids and other communicable diseases, ensuring sustainable economic and environmental development, and so on.
− i voted for this report on women and climate change because there is still a lot of work to be done in this area, as the gender dimension in climate policy is still not integrated.
in some regions, nearly 70% of all working women are engaged in agriculture and produce up to 90% of the harvest of some crops, but they are hardly represented in budgetary considerations and climate change action.
in addition, drought and water shortages caused by climate change are forcing women to work harder to secure water, food and energy, and young people are often leaving school to help their mothers with these tasks.
it should be recognised that climate change is exacerbating gender discrimination, among other catastrophic consequences.
stopping dangerous climate change must therefore be the top priority of the european union's internal and external policies.
unfortunately, there is still a lack of data and gender-based statistics that could be used for research in transport, energy and agricultural policy.
more data on climate change could help to better understand and assess the gender dimension of climate change.
the commission should therefore step up its efforts in this area and aim to integrate gender equality into the european union's climate change policy as soon as possible.
− i voted in favour of this report because biodiversity is essential for the survival of human life and for the well-being of societies because of the ecosystem functions it provides, and payment for ecosystem functions is a promising innovative financial instrument for biodiversity conservation.
the european union has not achieved its 2010 biodiversity target of preventing biodiversity loss.
climate change is also a threat to habitats and species.
moreover, more than 11 000 alien species have already entered the european union, of which at least 15% are invasive and destroy biodiversity.
measures are therefore needed to preserve nature and ecosystem functions for future generations, with a higher political priority for biodiversity.
the main objective of the european union's europe 2020 strategy in the field of biodiversity and the global biodiversity commitments should also be achieved.
it is also important that other multiannual financial programmes provide for adequate funding and the value of biodiversity and ecosystem functions in the economy.
− biodiversity is an essential element of eu environmental policy, and one which requires a lot of attention, especially at a time when economic activity is being prioritised over biodiversity in many countries.
however, i would like to draw attention to one point: when we talk about biological protection in particular and about integrating environmental policy as a whole into eu law, we must bear in mind a number of principles.
the principle of integrating biodiversity protection can only be achieved by ensuring that legislation (especially in the field of environmental protection) remains clear and understandable.
− the rapporteur rightly noted that the european union had failed to achieve its 2010 biodiversity target; damaged ecosystems should be given greater political attention.
lithuania's level of biodiversity is significantly higher than in other eu countries.
however, according to a study by the lithuanian nature foundation, agriculture and tourism have recently had a very negative impact on biodiversity in lithuania.
it is good that the rapporteur has mentioned biodiversity as an important economic factor.
a recent study has shown that biodiversity loss can have 'great economic consequences for the baltic sea region'.
in order to protect its biodiversity, lithuania needs to inform the public and regulate agriculture more strictly.
lithuania should also make greater efforts to establish special protected areas (such as state-protected reserves, reserves and heritage sites) and ecological protection zones.
− i voted in favour of this report because a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are essential to ensure a quality of life and to preserve the stability of ecosystems.
the current sixth environment action programme, the first adopted under the legislative co-decision procedure, will expire on 22 july 2012. over the decade, the sixth environmental action programme has provided a comprehensive framework for environmental policy planning, consolidated and substantially supplemented environmental legislation and reinforced its legitimacy, and contributed to increased accountability.
however, progress towards the objectives set out in the sixth environment action programme has been uneven.
the eu member states and the commission have not always acted in accordance with this programme there are still wide differences between member states in the quality of the environment and public health.
the remaining major environmental problems can therefore have significant consequences if they are not addressed.
urgent action is therefore needed to help make the transition to a sustainable future.
the seventh environment action programme should be adopted, which should be a comprehensive framework to address persistent and emerging environmental and sustainability challenges, taking into account measures already implemented and planned.
it is important to focus on the implementation and strengthening of environmental legislation, the integration of environmental objectives into all sectoral policies and the international environmental dimension.
the objective should be clear: sustainable territorial development of the regions.
− i did not support the proposal to postpone the discharge decision for the european environment agency for 2010. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
− i voted in favour of postponing the decision to confirm to the executive director of the european environment agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2010 has been implemented and postponing the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2010 pending substantive responses to the critical comments and requests made and pending information on the actions to be taken.
piracy complicates international trade, endangers the transport of strategic and environmentally dangerous cargoes, increases costs (the cost of insuring a single ship has increased tenfold), can lead to ecological disasters (e.g.
− i voted in favour of discharging the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2010 by confirming to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy that the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2010 has been discharged and approving the closure of the accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular.
the ips procedure applies to chemicals, including pesticides and industrial chemicals, which are banned or severely restricted due to their effects on health or the environment.
i do not think that the eu's interest in ensuring the profits of producers of dangerous chemicals who have difficulty selling them within the eu should take precedence over the eu's commitment to protecting human health and the environment.
this procedure applies to chemicals listed in annex iii to the rotterdam convention, which covers pesticides and industrial chemicals that are banned or severely restricted by the parties for reasons of health or environmental impact and are notified to the parties for the purpose of applying the ips procedure to these substances.
− the european union is now a world leader in environmental protection.
i therefore support the rapporteur's call for administrative procedures to be simplified for the transport of chemicals and for them to be brought into line with international agreements, but i would stress that this must be done in a way that does not have the slightest impact on the environment.
i call for no changes to the rotterdam convention's regulations, whose primary objective is to protect human health and the environment.
the introduction of plant varieties is a prerequisite for food security and, to a certain extent, for energy security.
i think that a significant measure could also be - and this has been mentioned by some speakers - if, for example, the part of the future financial framework - namely heading 1 - which deals very specifically with sustainable growth, where some 500 billion are provided for, could be made clear by a clear statement before the summer that this money will be available in the next financial period.
europe must ensure a good environment for small and mediumsized enterprises, in which they have the best framework conditions to develop and grow.
i have listened with great interest to the possibilities of simultaneously making efforts to improve energy efficiency and creating jobs for small and mediumsized enterprises.
this concept should also cover consumers who are temporarily placed in a position of powerlessness caused by a gap between their individual status and characteristics or by their external environment, taking into account criteria such as education, social and financial status or access to the internet.
this is also reflected in the european parliament's resolution on the outcome of the single market forum, which describes the single market as the most powerful instrument for putting europe back on the path to sustainable growth and jobs.
− i abstained because it is not clear why and why member states are delaying the transposition of eu directives into national law, even though i agree that the single market should be the most powerful instrument to put europe back on the path to sustainable growth and jobs.
i agree that the eu would not only carry forward the amendments to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icact) multiannual recovery plan for eastern bluefin tuna, but would also commit to an even stricter protection of the marine environment than that provided for in the plan.
the eu faces serious problems related to the traditional overfishing and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing practices, and it is therefore essential to take measures to ensure the sustainability of the marine environment and fish stocks.
i support the rapporteur’s proposals for unilateral eu measures which would help us to implement our environmental objectives.
oil spills caused by oil tanker accidents such as the 1999 erika and the prestige are major ecological disasters and tragedies for marine fauna and flora.
in the interest of the environment and in order to learn from past mistakes, this regulation aims to accelerate the application of the double-bodied requirements in order to reduce the risks of accidental hydrocarbon pollution in european waters.
oil spills caused by oil tanker accidents are a major ecological disaster and a tragedy for marine life.
in the interest of the environment, this regulation aims to reduce the risks of accidental pollution in european waters by establishing double-blind requirements.
the requirement for tankers to have a double hull would protect cargo tanks from accidents and reduce the risk of pollution.
if these hull plates were damaged by collision or by being washed ashore, there would be a risk that the contents of the cargo tanks could leak into the sea and cause large-scale pollution.
in the interest of the environment and in order to learn from past mistakes, this regulation aims to reduce the risks of accidental hydrocarbon pollution in european waters by accelerating the application of the double-bodied requirements.
if these hull plates were damaged by collision or by being washed ashore, there would be a risk that the contents of the cargo tanks could leak into the sea and cause large-scale pollution.
this double-hull design protects the cargo tanks from accidents and reduces the risk of pollution.
i agree that the financial contribution and the hiring of seafarers will have a positive impact on the country's fisheries sector and on the implementation of the sustainable fisheries programmes adopted at national level.
the objectives of this protocol also include the promotion of economic, scientific and technical cooperation in the fisheries sector and in all related sectors, with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, taking into account the interests of both parties.
i support the rapporteur’s welcoming of the new protocol regulating fishing opportunities, because this agreement creates a basis for sustainable fishing and supports socio-economic development in mozambique: more jobs and building capacities.
this will complement regulatory measures aimed at preventing future crises and generating additional revenue for general budgets, including for fiscal consolidation purposes to promote growth and job creation or to finance specific policy areas such as development aid and climate change.
all goods from china should meet ec requirements, especially social and environmental requirements.
the functions of parliament relating to political control are strengthened and extended, and in line with the practice of national parliaments and in accordance with the requirements of the treaty on european union, the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community, the committees of inquiry of the european parliament should be strengthened and given specific, concrete and clearly defined powers which better correspond to the political importance and powers of the european parliament, while respecting the principle of proportionality enshrined in the treaty on european union.
in accordance with the practice of national parliaments and in accordance with the requirements of the treaty on european union, the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community (hereinafter referred to as the 'treaties'), the committees of inquiry of the european parliament should therefore be strengthened and given specific, concrete and clearly defined powers which better reflect the political importance and powers of the european parliament, while respecting the principle of proportionality enshrined in article 5 of the treaty on european union.
i agree that we need to make a better overall use of secondary raw materials and create the right incentives to reduce waste and recycle it.
we need to make the use of national resources and sustainability a top priority in innovation agendas at european and national level.
by using more sustainably, reducing waste, and better collecting and sorting, we can contribute to the well-being of our planet and all of us.
sustainable waste management is an integral part of the green economy.
therefore, to really change the situation, rather than make the numbers better, it is necessary to improve the conditions for job creation, to create an attractive business environment, to fundamentally change the tax system this would encourage business initiatives to create jobs.
we have a lot of talk about sustainable resource use, we have strategies, we have targets for green growth.
i am not just talking about land resources, where sustainable use of resources is generally the issue, but also about saving money.
sustainable use is only possible through innovation and innovative solutions.
this requires a proper focus on research, and the creation of conditions for the private sector to work with researchers, so as to create a viable innovation sector that leads to sustainable use of resources.
− eu macro-financial assistance is a significant instrument that allows the eu to help third countries and territories meet the needs arising from sudden economic crises in an operational and add-on way, while strengthening commitments to the union's recognised common values of democracy, the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights, combating forced child labour, sustainable development assistance, poverty reduction, the fight against corruption, and the principles of open, rules-based and fair trade.
i agree that we need to make better use of secondary raw materials in europe in general and to create the right incentives to avoid waste and reuse.
we need to make the use of national resources and sustainability a top priority in innovation agendas at european and national level.
we must change the way we value our wealth and economic growth in terms of environmental sustainability, natural wealth and sustainable use of resources.
by using more sustainably, reducing waste, and better collecting and sorting waste, we can contribute to the well-being of our planet and all of us.
sustainable use of resources is an integral part of the green economy.
this is important for the eu's economic and ecological security.
although energy intensity in lithuania is decreasing, it remains very high.
according to a recent report published by the european environment agency, which is based on oecd statistics, energy efficiency and resource efficiency are almost 25% below the eu average.
by using resources more efficiently, developing clearer long-term policies and investing together in green innovation, we would strengthen the basis for growth and jobs for our citizens and achieve our climate and energy goals.
compared to other eu countries, lithuania lags far behind in terms of more resource-friendly waste generation municipal waste generation in lithuania is about 400 kg per person, 18% higher than the eu average.
more sustainable consumption, reduced waste and better waste collection can make for a much more efficient use of resources.
the real change is to improve the conditions for job creation, to create an attractive business environment, to fundamentally change the tax system and to encourage initiatives, rather than offering one benefit and then immediately inventing ten barriers to access.
youth unemployment, which is universally recognised as a major, long-term social problem, essentially raising a generation of unemployed, will not be effectively tackled without improving the social environment, creating a favourable system of housing credit, reducing bureaucratic and other obstacles to people wanting to start their own businesses.
as rightly acknowledged in this report, every day, the internet and the digital ecosystem boost productivity, drive innovation, and stimulate growth and high-quality jobs.
in the modern world, energy has long been a global issue, and not just because of the resources themselves or their demand, but also because of environmental issues.
i mean the extraction, the production, the transfer of energy.
as we know, pollution ignores walls.
it is therefore important that cooperation with third countries is aimed at ensuring that they meet the appropriate high environmental standards.
one of the key issues in the european union's cooperation with foreign partners in the field of energy is the guarantee of a high level of nuclear safety, in line with european union standards.
one of the eu's foreign policy objectives is to develop relations and build partnerships with third countries to promote the economic, social and environmental sustainability of developing countries.
the lisbon treaty provides for the common objective of development cooperation to be to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable economic and social development and to achieve the millennium development goals (mdgs) by 2015. i agree with the call made by the european parliament for the need to explore new ways of developing cooperation between the eu and the latin american region in the negotiations on the next financial instrument for development cooperation for 2014-2020. i agree with the need to help latin american countries to pursue fairer fiscal policies, to strengthen tax capacity and to fight fraud and tax evasion, to allocate 20% of eu funds to education and health programmes and to expand the various programmes aimed at strengthening eu-latin american dialogue and cooperation.
the lisbon treaty also provides for a common objective for development cooperation: eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable economic and social development, as well as achieving the millennium development goals (mdgs) by 2015. the latin american region is among the middle-income countries that have made significant progress in reducing poverty and inequality through economic growth and political and social reforms, but despite this, one in three latin american people still live below the poverty line and ten of the region's countries remain among the 15 most unequal countries in the world.
− i supported the document as the eu's development cooperation policy should be defined in close consultation with latin america in order to form a sustainable, fair and well-coordinated development policy for the region.
the lisbon treaty sets the common objective of development cooperation as 'the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable economic and social development, and the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) by 2015'.
these countries often face glaring inequalities and weak governance that threaten the sustainability of their own development process.
after periods of economic prosperity, they are still vulnerable to global economic, environmental or security threats.
− i voted for this report because the role of technology has increased significantly in all areas of our daily lives: from communications to finance and banking, from transport to energy, from culture and entertainment to health.
challenges do not respect borders, and we have to harmonize international cyber-security environment.
it is essential to ensure that the european union fully develops its crossborder energy infrastructure and that energy policy is an integral part of the eu's foreign policy.
the eu is one of the largest energy buyers in the global energy market and, in order to give it a strong role in international energy relations, it is important to create a well-functioning internal market that creates more competition with external partners.
i am in favour of closer cooperation with supplier countries and international organisations and the development of the european energy network and of links with neighbouring countries (the western balkans, the eastern neighbourhood, the caspian countries, north africa and the middle east) by creating new links.
− i voted in favour of this report because, in order to address the common global energy challenges and to achieve the eu's ambitious energy and climate change objectives, the european union needs to take joint, effective and equitable action at international level, in particular by strengthening the external dimension of its energy policy and by taking a united position to increase the diversification of energy sources, enhance security of supply and support sustainable production and consumption.
the eu can and should continue to foster existing priority areas through cooperation in the field of external energy policy.
only a fully integrated european energy market, based on the principle of solidarity, can adequately address the challenges to energy security arising from the different structure and share of energy imports in the various member states.
- i voted in favour because energy has become a powerful foreign policy weapon today.
given the importance of energy in our daily lives, it should be considered a commodity for consumption rather than a tool for foreign policy.
the eu must take into account all aspects of our energy security.
europe is one of the largest energy buyers on the global energy market.
in shaping european energy policy, we should seek a common approach, extending our sphere of influence beyond europe, especially in the case of energy market rules.
ensuring reliable, competitive access to global energy resources is necessary to promote european competitiveness and security in line with the eu policy objectives set out in the 2020 package and the long-term commitment to achieve the lowest carbon economy by 2050. a coherent and coordinated approach by the member states, the commission and the council will allow the eu's external energy objectives to be effectively achieved and will contribute to a better negotiating position vis-à-vis third countries.
− in today's world, energy is becoming global we import both energy sources and energy itself from third countries.
however, energy is closely linked to environmental protection, as natural resources are used and other environmental impacts are generated in the extraction, production and transmission of energy.
it is therefore important to cooperate with third countries to ensure that they comply with relevant environmental standards.
first of all, i am talking about nuclear energy, whose environmental impact could be catastrophic in the event of an accident.
therefore, one of the key issues in eu cooperation with foreign energy partners is to ensure a high level of nuclear safety, in line with eu standards, for the construction, refurbishment and direct operation of existing power plants in third countries.
− given the union's high dependence on energy imports increased diversification of supply sources and transit routes and the development of eu sources of renewable energy is an urgent and essential element supporting the union's external energy security policy.
energy policy must become an integrated and prominent part of the common foreign policy and should be elaborated and implemented in synergy with other policies that have an external dimension.
i voted in favour of this report, because i agree that external energy policy cooperation must contribute to the promotion of the core values of the union including responsible use of natural resources, fight against climate change, and comprehensive protection of the environment, promote establishing peace and be coherent with the union's foreign policies.
− i voted in favour of this european parliament report because the common preferential tariff (cft) is one of the eu's trade instruments for promoting sustainable development in developing countries, poverty reduction and respect for human rights.
this important trade instrument aims to enable developing countries to participate more actively in international trade and to obtain additional export revenues, as well as to support income growth and the implementation of their own sustainable development and poverty reduction policies.
given the vulnerability of emerging economies and social inequalities, which is one of the main causes of the arab spring unrest, the representatives of the union in the governance bodies of the eib should encourage the eib to focus on other issues in the area of private sector development, so that financing also contributes to the creation of socially and environmentally sustainable societies, as set out in the relevant millennium development goals.
in particular, the representatives of the union in the governing bodies of the esrb should encourage the esrb to contribute to the transition towards an energy-efficient and socially integrated open market economy, while taking into account the social, poverty, civil society and human rights situation.
particular attention should be paid to transparency, sustainability, the promotion of equal opportunities and the reduction of social exclusion.
i support its implementation and believe that it is important to respect the sustainable development goals, including the promotion of economic progress, respect for labour rights and environmental protection.
i agree with the calls for these countries to ratify and effectively implement the ilo conventions, to develop a transparent and binding action plan on human rights, environmental protection and labour rights, and to establish an internal advisory group on human rights and democratic principles.
the introduction of a trade and sustainable development chapter in the trade agreement would provide assurances that the new eu trade and investment relationship framework will contribute to a comprehensive social and environmental protection and sustainable development in all countries by promoting and protecting high labour and environmental standards.
it is essential to include a chapter on trade and sustainable development in the trade agreement and to establish country mechanisms and dialogue with civil society, involving citizens individually or in an organised collective way.
− i voted in favour of the document as, given the importance of the historical and cultural links, the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru aims to open markets, including for goods, services, government procurement and investment, and to promote the economic integration and full economic development of the participating countries with the aim of reducing poverty and creating new employment opportunities, improving working conditions and raising living standards by liberalising and expanding trade and investment between the territories of these countries, and to call for a commitment to implement the trade agreement in line with the objective of sustainable development, including the promotion of economic progress, respect for labour rights and protection of the environment, taking into account the international commitments of the parties.
− i voted in favour of the document because the creation of a democratic society requires above all a strong political will and a broad vision of ambition from political leaders, governments and opposition groups to help create political institutions that guarantee the human, social, economic and environmental rights of the population.
unfortunately, the development of environmental policy is often such that new environmental requirements are usually adopted when a major disaster occurs.
environmental legislation should aim not only at response but above all at prevention in order to prevent such accidents.
i believe that all this will ensure a high level of environmental protection.
major industrial accidents such as those in seveso (italy, 1976), bhopal (india, 1984), schweizerhalle (switzerland, 1986), enschede (netherlands, 2000), toulouse (france, 2001) and bansfield (uk, 2005) have claimed many lives, destroyed public and private property, damaged the environment and caused billions of euros in damage.
it puts in danger european citizens and our environment, information and awareness would not help them in case of accident caused by malfunctioning implementation.
at the same time, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that there are many such laws in the field of food safety, and their updating is the constant work of the environment committee.
the single market does not need to be detached from the implementation of health, social and consumer protection, labour law, environmental protection, sustainable development and external policy and the eu 2020 strategy.
− i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because the main objective of the future of european companies is to enable european companies to compete more effectively and to be more successful in a competitive global environment, while ensuring that the interests of creditors, shareholders, members and employees are properly protected.
the overall objective is to enable european companies to compete more effectively and to succeed in a highly competitive global environment, while ensuring that the interests of creditors, shareholders, members and employees are adequately protected.
however, any future initiatives should be consistent with national corporate governance systems and national legislation on employee participation, with a view to achieving greater flexibility and freedom of choice in the form of companies, the allocation of internal power and the strategies of sustainable companies.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the union.
another important aspect is the efficient and sustainable use of water.
moreover, by granting san bartolomé the status of an overseas country and territory, the european union would establish a new, mutual and sustainable partnership with san bartolomé, which would be in keeping with the characteristics of the territory, but without casting doubt on its european identity.
the granting of the status of an overseas country and territory to saint-barthélemy would lead the european union to establish a new mutual and sustainable partnership with saint-barthélemy, which would be in keeping with the characteristics of the territory, but without casting doubt on its european identity.
regional policy development is essential to address economic and environmental challenges and to achieve the europe 2020 objectives through strategic means.
the living standards of the mediterranean coastal population living outside the european union are deteriorating dramatically in all aspects: economic, social, ecological and political.
i believe that the eu's macro-regional strategies are a great example of how to address the problems of the entire region more effectively, especially those related to coherent and sustainable development, the implementation of cohesion and territorial cooperation projects under the eu's neighbourhood policy, and the use of eu funds.
i support an adequate, transparent and sustainable funding of the infrastructure, better predictability of the infrastructure development and access conditions, as well as the improvement of the competitiveness of rail operators vis-à-vis other transport modes.
i voted in favour of this report because it facilitates the creation of greater competition in this sector, encourages more investment in environmental rail transport programmes and creates a more transparent financial accounting regime for the sector.
intellectual property rights (ipr) are fundamental to innovation, which is a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the biggest water consumers by far are the energy production and agriculture sectors.
in order to protect, restore and ensure the long-term and sustainable use of clean water and to achieve good ecological and chemical status by 2015, it is necessary to improve the implementation of the water framework directive in the member states.
since in many areas of europe water abstraction exceeds sustainable levels, and this poses a threat to the safety of public water supplies and to fauna and flora, the proposed measures are necessary.
i support the proposal to regulate water reuse and recycling in eu legislation, taking account of technological innovation, and to eliminate the inconsistencies between the water framework directive, the nitrates directive, the reach regulation and natura 2000, and to strengthen international commitments for sustainable development.
the future of european industry depends on finding effective solutions to the current water problems and on the responsible and efficient management of existing water resources, which have direct implications for human health, energy production, agriculture and food security.
− i voted in favour, as water is essential to life and an inalienable public good, and proper water management is vital to the conservation of the world's natural resources and ecosystem functions, as well as to all aspects of resource use and economic production.
the future of european industry depends on finding effective solutions to the current water problems and on the responsible and efficient management of existing water resources, which have direct implications for human health, energy production, agriculture and food security.
europe's and the world's freshwater is at risk if it is not managed in a sustainable manner.
urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, hydromorphological change and climate change are increasing the scarcity of accessible and quality, safe and secure water supplies.
a particularly important step in european water policy is to implement the sustainability objectives by defining the ecological, chemical and qualitative 'good status' of european water bodies to be achieved by 2015. it is also necessary to speed up the deployment of waste water treatment infrastructure in the member states.
there must be an eu policy response to current and future water problems to ensure sufficient access to good quality water for sustainable and appropriate use not only for us but also for future generations.
it is important to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu by reducing disparities between european regions.
in order to overcome the fiscal crisis and to increase growth and employment, the union should continue to build on its strengths: high levels of consumption, education and quality of life, research and innovation capacity, high levels of labour productivity and efficiency, and a favourable and supportive business environment.
investors in the eu market are mainly attracted by its high quality and diverse human capital, highlighted by its corporate social responsibility, relatively predictable business environment and strong research and innovation potential.
the commission is therefore invited to prepare a communication to assess and promote the attractiveness of investing in europe, including policy recommendations to member states aimed at improving the eu investment environment.
the commission must therefore act without delay and prepare as soon as possible a communication setting out measures to improve the eu investment environment and recommendations to the member states.
i consider the establishment of a close cooperation and comprehensive free trade area to be one of the most ambitious measures in the eu's bilateral trade policy, aimed at creating a stable, transparent and predictable economic environment, respectful of democracy, the rule of law and the rule of law, which would not only allow for greater economic integration by gradually removing barriers to trade, but also ensure greater regulatory convergence in areas affecting trade in goods and services, in particular by strengthening investment protection, simplifying customs and border procedures, reducing technical and other non-tariff barriers to trade, tightening sanitary and phytosanitary rules, improving animal welfare, strengthening competition and the legal basis for public procurement and ensuring sustainable development.
it is regrettable that some people still feel that an area of stability, transparency, sustainable development and democracy is against their interests.
sustainable and transparent relations with these countries are in the utmost interest of the eu, and dcftas are an appropriate tool to achieve it.
the proposal also includes a number of provisions aimed at simplifying the existing legal environment and reducing the administrative burden on member states.
furthermore, detailed analyses must be carried out to find a compromise between environmental provisions and local development mismatches.
the proper use of the fund will help to resolve economic investment and environmental protection issues in an operational and effective manner.
the ep and all european community expect that the commitments made by russia would not only provide new business opportunities for eu firms; they would also improve the business environment – not least as regards non-discrimination and free competition – for eu exporters and investors already working with russia.
it is therefore expected that the commitments to the urgent reforms required by wto accession will be given with the appropriate gravity, respecting the principle of reciprocity and commitments in the negotiation of a new agreement of mutual benefit, in particular in the areas of energy, trade and investment.
in the current difficult environment, one of the most demanding tasks is to promote growth and create jobs, especially for young people.
a high level of animal welfare is integral to sustainable development and it is therefore important not only to achieve the objectives of the new strategy but also to complete the objectives of the 2006-2010 strategy with additional funding.
maintaining a high level of animal welfare, which is integral to sustainable development, is important to protect animal and public health and to ensure the productivity and competitiveness of the european livestock sector.
the europe 2020 strategy sets ambitious targets, but significant progress will not be achieved over the next decade with the current transport, energy or information technology infrastructure.
solving today's problems, such as congestion, outdated energy systems, lack of transport and energy connections, and underdeveloped information technology infrastructure, will require huge investments that the public sector cannot allocate and will therefore have to rely on private sector investment, but the unfavourable economic situation in the european union and commercially unviable projects will not attract the funding that is lacking.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks.
smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as well as reduction of unemployment through the completion of the internal market.
investment needs in the field of transport, energy and information and communication technologies (ict) infrastructure in europe are estimated at eur 1.5 trillion for 2010-2020. while the private sector should finance the main part of these - mostly profitable - investments, the public sector's role in europe will be crucial for achieving the above targets.
modern and efficient infrastructure is essential to achieve the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to reduce unemployment by completing the internal market.
i agree that in order to increase the involvement of the private sector in the financing of infrastructure measures in the areas of transport, energy and ict and broadband, the implementation of the europe 2020 project bond initiative should be launched in a pilot phase in 2012-2013.
in writing.
− i voted in favour of this report because modern and efficient infrastructure is essential to achieve the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy, completing the internal market and reducing unemployment.
it is estimated that europe needs eur 1.5 trillion of investment in transport, energy and information and communication technology (ict) infrastructure between 2010 and 2020. the private sector should be the main source of these often profitable investments, and the public sector in europe would play a crucial role in achieving the above objectives.
the european infrastructure networks facility (eitf) should therefore be included in the next financial framework in order to accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of transport, energy and ict networks, with a particular focus on strategic cross-border aspects.
− i voted in favour of the document, as modern and efficient infrastructure is essential to achieve the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy and to reduce unemployment by completing the internal market.
to this end, the eu commission has proposed to include the european infrastructure networks facility (eitf) in the next financial framework to accelerate infrastructure development in the areas of transport, energy and information and communication technology (ict) networks, with a particular focus on strategic cross-border aspects.
it has been updated to cover not only transport but also other sectors such as energy and ict projects, and at the same time extended to cover not only traffic but all risks that could lead to a lack of revenue during the project period.
− i support this resolution as more efforts must be made to attract private sector investment in infrastructure in the areas of transport, energy and ict and broadband.
the achievement of this objective will ensure appropriate and sufficient financial support for the trans-european transport and energy networks.
it is important to note that in all cases, it is essential to take into account the needs of energy efficiency, noise reduction at source, biodiversity and climate change in the financing of transport infrastructure.
the speaker before me just mentioned a very large number of four billion spent on energy in the european union.
if the european union fails in energy efficiency, it will fail in climate change, energy security, social protection.
we must therefore improve our energy security and efficiency, and control our energy costs, otherwise unit prices will continue to rise.
the key policy and concrete measures must be to achieve an absolute reduction in energy consumption, which will reduce the energy costs of all consumers.
especially during the economic crisis, rising energy prices have had a negative impact on low-income households.
similarly, all information related to energy price increases should be made public and available to the public.
finally, perhaps we should review the percentage of eu funding for the development of advanced energy facilities, which is not 50 percent, but more, i mean cogeneration.
- our european energy community is an offer to the countries of the former yugoslavia, to all the countries of the western balkans.
this means that the largest country in the western balkans leads the energy community.
there we are making good progress in bringing the european internal energy market beyond the eu-27 to neighbouring countries, to the benefit of all citizens inside and outside the european union.
together with our partners in the european energy and electricity industries, we are in the process of achieving uniform european standards for smart grids and smart meters.
the european internal market law in the field of energy is governed by european rules and not by bilateral agreements between a member state and a third country.
the independence of the gas network operator from gas producers and gas users so that they play a high, objective part in this energy business.
secondly, it is possible if parliament adopts the seven-year financial framework in the coming weeks and supports the connecting europe facility in the energy sector with 9 billion euros.
i am then able to act and willing to talk to the respective energy ministers and the transmission system operators of entso-g.
member of the commission.
- the energy customer, in the case of the electricity customer, is satisfied if, firstly, there are no or very few power cuts.
thirdly, many citizens - not all - are also interested in other issues such as environmental protection, sustainability and climate change, as electricity consumers.
we are also working towards this, and we believe that the internal market and our european energy and climate policy have therefore helped the consumer and that further improvement will help him further.
- madam president, i wanted to complete my colleague günther oettinger's answer very briefly because, thinking of electricity users and, in particular, citizens and families, obviously from the point of view of my responsibilities as commissioner for competition, i have instructed my services to monitor very closely and continuously the situation on the electricity market and other energy sources.
the french energy authority, of course, and the french competition authority, exercise these responsibilities on the french market.
our main objective is the implementation of the third energy package.
however, tomorrow we will vote for another document, called 'the mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental energy agreements between member states and third countries', which leaves the member states and companies free to provide information on mutual agreements.
my question is: will not the implementation of the third energy package be weakened by this option and will not the internal market within the european union be distorted on this basis?
− we believe that the external energy policy to be discussed tomorrow will not have a negative impact on the development of the internal market.
my next question is: our main objective is to reduce our dependence on third countries, and this depends on the energy balance.
what is your view today on the development of nuclear energy, so that this type of energy could be the most rapid and efficient way of addressing the question of the positive side of the energy balance in relation to third countries, especially russia?
in the european union, we all recognise that energy efficiency contributes to combating climate change and preserving the environment.
in order to achieve a high energy efficiency class for our buildings, new jobs are created and orders in the construction sector increase and, most importantly, the savings from less energy consumption can be transferred to other sectors.
the text proposed by the commission was rather ambitious, particularly in terms of the mandatory energy saving targets.
and often member states need a push to meet certain targets - this could be the setting of mandatory energy savings targets.
− i voted in favour of this energy efficiency proposal.
the eu spends around €400 billion a year on energy imports.
it is therefore necessary to take all measures that can promote efficient and sustainable energy consumption and contribute to energy security and to reducing energy dependence on third countries.
i support the mandatory targets set out in this directive at eu and national level to achieve a 20% energy efficiency target by 2020, which will not only improve the union's energy security but also contribute to the eu's economic recovery.
i support the creation of energy saving schemes in the member states to reduce energy consumption and the obligation for public organisations to purchase energy-efficient buildings.
the provisions on the deployment of smart meters in this directive will help to better protect eu consumers from unjustified increases in energy prices and increase consumer awareness of real energy consumption and energy prices.
− i voted in favour of this report because the main objective of eu environmental policy is to reduce emissions of dangerous and harmful gases and other pollutants.
the best way to do this is to promote energy efficiency.
energy efficiency can help to reduce the costs of efficient products and services and increase business opportunities in the related industrial sectors.
the 2007 heads of state decision set a target of 20% energy efficiency improvements and is a key element of the roadmap to a low-carbon economy by 2050. in order to achieve this objective, member states should draw up national action plans that are robust and specific, and the commission must have the right to assess and amend them.
it is worth noting that the pursuit of energy efficiency is inseparable not only from the regulation of the activities of each citizen and smes, but also from the provision of incentives, such as support for the establishment of an energy saving system.
− i voted in favour of the proposal because energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants associated with fossil fuels.
energy efficiency also helps to reduce dependence on energy imports, for which the eu now pays more than €400 billion a year.
investing in energy efficiency will reduce the eu's dependence on russia and the opec countries and thus enable it to invest more in european industry.
energy efficiency one of the key objectives to be achieved by 2020. it is important for our long-term energy and climate goals, and it is also the most cost-effective way to reduce emissions, increase energy security and competitiveness, and reduce energy costs.
energy challenges are one of the biggest challenges facing europe today.
rising energy prices and increasing dependence on energy imports not only have a negative impact on consumers, but also threaten our security and competitiveness.
important decisions need to be taken immediately to reduce energy costs and emissions significantly and to mitigate climate change.
− the energy efficiency report is one of the most important pieces of work in this parliament's term.
the eu has no direct means of reducing global oil and gas prices, but it can help reduce energy consumption.
in addition to saving money, energy efficiency also helps the environment by reducing emissions.
the increase in energy prices is particularly damaging to the eu countries, which are still in a difficult economic situation, and to the weakest sections of society.
it is important that this directive is not understood as a mere document promoting energy efficiency.
saving energy is also important in everyday life.
− as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i agreed that the main criterion for food supplied to consumers should be high standards of quality and safety.
stricter sulphur limit values would increase the health and environmental benefits of implementing the 0,1% limit value beyond the existing eu sox control areas.
significant health and environmental benefits could also be obtained if the limit value applied in eu ports were also applied in territorial waters.
despite all these doubts, i agree that it is necessary to find ways of reducing emissions from ships in many member states, because only in this way can we contribute to improving air quality.
i believe that the health and environmental standards for eu citizens should be as uniform as possible across the eu.
with this decision, we are dividing the eu's citizens and seas into two parts - one more concerned with health and the environment, the other less.
the commission's report and assessment of whether such differentiation will reduce the effectiveness of the fight against pollution from maritime transport, will not lead to a greater degree of change of modes of transport and will not distort competition in the european union market, are still to be seen.
the commission should also focus more on the implementation of the european resource efficiency action plan and the creation of a fully integrated and interconnected single energy market.
the commission should therefore focus its energy and resources on supporting member states to overcome the crisis effectively and quickly, while reducing red tape and centralisation.
while much has been done in the area of economic promotion, it would be desirable for the commission's environmental action to be rational rather than based on ambition alone.
− i voted in favour of this report because the essence of a green, or sustainable, economy is to preserve the productive functions of ecosystems while creating a society that meets people's basic needs.
also, the production and consumption of food products emits pollutants that enter the ecosystem.
therefore, the economical use of natural resources is important to avoid negative ecological impacts.
gender equality is part of a green and sustainable economic system.
this report makes a significant contribution to the creation of a green economy, where social equity and human well-being are created by reducing the negative impact on the environment.
i voted in favour of this report because its implementation would not only improve women's well-being, but also encourage changes towards a more sustainable economy.
the cultural and creative sectors in the eu generate 2.5% of eu gdp, the same as the automotive industry, and the eu should therefore promote this sector and create an environment conducive to legitimate supply, innovation and creativity.
i supported this report because it calls for a public environment that fosters the creation and accessibility of legal audiovisual content.
legal certainty and regulation of authors’ rights and copyright laws must exist in the european online environment in order to establish such beneficial conditions.
the aim of this agreement is to remove technical barriers to trade and to protect the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties to the agreement.
the aim of the saa is therefore to remove technical barriers to trade and to protect the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties to the agreement.
the aim of this agreement is to remove technical barriers to trade and to protect the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties to the agreement.
the aim of the saa is therefore to remove technical barriers to trade and to protect the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties to the agreement.
the new regulation thus contributes to the promotion and implementation of sustainable and responsible fishing at international level and is also closely linked to the regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in view of the objectives of the reform of the common fisheries policy and in order to promote sustainable production activities, the mandate of the organisation should be reviewed.
− i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the eu should continue to develop its foreign policy ambitions, to promote values and to defend its interests worldwide, in line with the common objective of contributing to peace, human security, strengthening solidarity, conflict prevention, promotion of the rule of law and democracy, protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, gender equality, respect for international law and support for international institutions, effective multilateralism and mutual respect between peoples, sustainable development, transparent and accountable governance, free and fair trade and poverty reduction.
− i voted in favour of this report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
long-term management plans should have a clear objective and be based on an ecosystem-based approach to managing mixed fisheries.
fleet capacity regulation is another very important aspect that could be ensured by the remuneration received for sustainable fishing.
− i supported the proposal as it calls for the conservation of living resources and long-term environmental sustainability, the increase of fish productivity and the conservation of living aquatic resources and marine ecosystems.
the commission's report confirms once again that the current common fisheries policy (cfp) is falling short of its objectives for the protection and sustainable exploitation of eu fisheries and the adaptation of existing fishing capacity to the available fish stocks.
more than 60% of fish stocks in european waters are caught in excess of the maximum sustainable yield.
it is recognised that the tac and quota system alone have not been effective in the sustainable management of some fish stocks over the last decade.
it is necessary to ensure that by 2015 all fish stocks are fished below sustainable levels and that long-term management plans are established.
i agree that it is necessary to prohibit the discarding of unwanted fish and to ensure that consumers are provided with all the necessary information on the quality and sustainability of the products they buy.
it is vital that the implementation of the cfp in the fisheries sector is guided by an approach that takes into account the biological, ecological as well as the economic and social aspects (the three pillars of the cfp reform) in order to always find a compromise between the situation of existing resources in the different marine zones and the social and economic structure of coastal communities that depend on coastal fishing for jobs and prosperity.
this decision is a very important and welcome step towards the formulation of a single external energy policy for the eu by ensuring that third-country entities operating in the eu's single internal energy market under construction are subject to the same rules as eu entities.
while the solution could be more ambitious, if member states cooperate in good faith and share information, we will soon be able to see the benefits of this for the development of the eu's energy sector, common infrastructure and the creation of the internal market.
the strategy aims to promote the conservation of atlantic resources, to control human activities in an appropriate way in order to maintain the ecological balance.
− i voted in favour of this report because a reliable energy supply is essential to fostering a predictable economic environment for eu citizens and for the eu industry as a whole.
a stable internal energy market is the best way to ensure energy supply.
− i voted in favour of the decision establishing a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental energy agreements between member states and third countries.
the eu is highly dependent on energy imports, and its energy security is therefore vulnerable to disruptions in supply from outside the eu.
moreover, energy imports account for a large proportion of total eu imports - a high cost and risk to the eu economy.
the eu and the member states should have an interest in the regulation of external relations in the field of energy through intergovernmental agreements and in strengthening the negotiating capacity of the member states through the exchange of information and best practices between the member states and the commission.
intergovernmental agreements can support the eu's objective of increasing the diversity of energy supply routes and sources.
moreover, a sustainable and reliable energy supply is crucial to fostering a predictable economic environment for citizens and the eu industry.
the best way to ensure energy supply is through an internal energy market.
i therefore supported the objective of this proposal to increase the transparency of intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy between member states and to ensure that member states are informed of the conformity of the agreement with the internal market rules or of any infringement thereof.
− with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in 2009, energy became an eu policy area.
the document adopted today is one of the first steps towards achieving the eu's energy policy objectives.
the single energy market in the european union cannot exist unless member states coordinate their actions and share information on planned or existing agreements with third countries in the energy sector.
i hope that this is not the last document to help the european union and the energy sector speak the same language.
european agriculture produces a wide range of food products using a methodology that protects the environment and takes account of the needs of rural communities.
in principle, it is necessary to ensure that the agreement is implemented in accordance with international labour and environmental conventions.
economic growth is based on the development of energy, innovation, research and education, and it is therefore necessary to ensure not only the continuity of existing programmes but also the development and financing of new policy areas, clearly defined in the priorities of the european union.
the single european sky is a key element in the eu's strategy to reduce air pollution and reduce air pollution.
in addition, the european environment agency has always been regarded positively for its professional, independent and reliable provision of information to all institutions, member states and union policy-making bodies.
specific investments in food, health and nutrition are of the utmost importance, bearing in mind that improving the nutrition of mothers and children is key to eradicating poverty and achieving sustainable growth.
this requires an environment conducive to new ideas and new business ventures.
such a business-friendly environment in europe is not well developed, also because of the wide variation in industrial policies between member states.
however, the reality is that it is essential and necessary to achieve sustainable growth and economic recovery, as called for in the europe 2020 strategy, by pursuing a coherent and coordinated industrial policy by member states and implementing fundamental structural changes in the eu industrial system.
i believe that in the current difficult economic climate, every opportunity must be taken to strengthen the eu's single market and to exploit its full potential for growth and employment.
however, serbia still has a long way to go in terms of implementing reforms, not only through legislation, but also through the implementation of european practices, including in areas such as the protection of foreign investment and the improvement of the business environment, member states' visas.
− i voted in favour of this resolution on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
the purpose of this derogation is to enable member states to protect biologically vulnerable regions, ensure the sustainable management of fish stocks and preserve traditional fisheries.
− the current situation of the common fisheries policy is unfortunately not conducive to sustainable exploitation of fish stocks.
therefore, while the future of the cfp and the wider use of fisheries resources based on scientific evidence are being discussed, it is appropriate to use individual instruments which, as practice has shown, can be used effectively and ensure the conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources.
i support the proposed agreement, which will contribute to closer eu-moldova trade relations, improving the quality of the food chain and promoting sustainable rural development.
i believe that the eu needs to do more in this period to remove the barriers to the functioning of the single market, particularly in sectors that can accelerate sustainable economic growth, such as cross-border business and entrepreneurship, the provision of services, access to finance and financial literacy.
the single market is a key factor in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and its objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the future negotiations on a free trade agreement will of course have to take account of the problematic aspects outlined in the european parliament's resolution, including environmental protection.
global demand for energy and water is projected to increase by about 40% and food by 50% by 2030. the continuing increase in population and the growth of the middle class, especially in developing countries, will significantly increase the use of natural resources.
i agree that the eu's trade agreements with third countries must reflect adequately the provisions on social standards that will contribute to the sustainable development of these countries in the future.
this should boost russia's gdp growth, accelerate the common modernisation programme with the european union, maintain and create jobs both in russia and in the eu countries, and implement higher environmental standards.
however, russia would have to implement its commitments consistently, further liberalise its trade regime and create a transparent and predictable environment for trade and foreign investment.
− i voted in favour of this agreement, which will promote energy efficiency in stationery.
energy star is a program developed by the u.s. environmental protection agency to improve the energy efficiency of stationary equipment.
in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement on the harmonisation of energy labelling programmes for stationery.
the agreement, which was renewed for a second five-year period in 2006, provides for the creation of the energy star programme in the european union, which will allow for closer eu-us cooperation in the development of product specifications.
therefore, this agreement seeks to extend the energy star program for an additional period of five years.
i believe that in the next five years, negotiations with the united states should be held to ensure that the principle of mutual recognition of the energy performance of products is applied in the future.
− i voted for this report because in 2000 the eu and the us signed an agreement on the harmonisation of energy labelling programmes for stationery.
this agreement, which was aimed at improving the energy efficiency of stationery, was renewed in 2006 and expired in 2011. the council authorised the commission to negotiate a new agreement to extend the energy star programme for a third additional five-year period.
these negotiations were concluded in november 2011 and were recognised by both parties as effective and successful in promoting energy efficiency.
− in order to use resources (in this case energy) efficiently and effectively, it is important that consumers are properly informed about the energy performance of the installations concerned.
the energy star labelling used in the usa is sufficiently well known in the european union and it is therefore appropriate to continue to use it.
i welcome the proposed measures to ensure sustainable public finances, reduce macroeconomic imbalances and enhance competitiveness, which will lead to faster growth and more employment.
the european council is committed to bringing together all the levers, instruments and policies to promote smart, sustainable, resource-efficient and job-creating growth by adopting a comprehensive agreement on growth and jobs.
finally, it is necessary to ensure the coherence of european economic policy in order to generate sustainable growth for future generations.
i agree that in the eu's negotiations with the russian federation, particular attention should be paid to the openness and transparency of the eu-russia energy market, the reform of the country's customs procedures in the light of international conventions and the abolition of russian double pricing for goods and clarification of the conditions for the establishment of service companies.
one of those exporters of used cars who had a reasonable expectation of higher trade volumes at lower prices, but whose car exports were made even more difficult by russia's introduction of a so-called recycling tax from 1 september than before wto membership energy resources account for the majority of russian exports to the eu, while the eu exports a wide range of products to russia.
the experience with, for example, the energy charter treaty shows that russia does not avoid selective compliance.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for a protocol on the eu's accession to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution caused by exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed and subsoil (maritime protocol).
in order to ensure the safety of operations in the mediterranean and to prevent accidents related to oil spills at sea, it is necessary to strengthen the policy for the sustainable management of oil and gas activities.
− i voted in favour of this report as on 27 october 2011 the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol on the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution caused by exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed and subsoil (maritime protocol).
− i have agreed to this proposal because on 27 october 2011 the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the approval of a protocol on the accession of the european union to the convention for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution from exploration and development (maritime protocol).
the protocol for the sea, approved on 14 october 1994, is one of the protocols to the convention for the protection of the mediterranean environment and coastal zone (barcelona convention), signed on 16 february 1976 and amended on 10 june 1995. the eu and all eu mediterranean member states are contracting parties to the barcelona convention, along with 14 other mediterranean countries.
− i support the proposal to call on the eu to join the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed and subsoil.
in view of the nature of this activity in the mediterranean and its potential negative consequences for the economy, the ecosystem and the environment, it is necessary to establish a sustainable management policy for this activity.
moreover, international cooperation should be strengthened and the necessary safety and environmental standards established.
only by acting together and by implementing the commitments made will the protection of the eu's marine environment in the event of major accidents be ensured.
this agreement will cover the purchase of fishing rights for eu vessels and the promotion of a responsible and sustainable fisheries policy.
− the new protocol will further strengthen the partnership between the two countries in the fisheries sector and ensure the implementation of a responsible and sustainable fisheries policy.
it would also create the conditions for a more rational use of fisheries resources from an economic, social and environmental perspective.
in this context, it is necessary to monitor on a regular basis the proper use of the compensation paid by the eu and the promotion of sustainable exploitation of greenland's fisheries resources.
many of the recent and current crisis management measures are based on short-term objectives, mainly to restore the sustainability of public finances, which are vital to the eu economy.
addressing the above challenges through targeted social investment to help individuals, families and society adapt to changing economic conditions and labour market needs is essential to restore sustainable growth.
the european union must strive to export a sustainable agricultural model and its products.
an effective promotion policy is essential to promote eu agriculture by ensuring food security, sustainable use of natural resources and employment in rural areas.
i support the proposal to finance products that are compatible with a sustainable agricultural model and the proposal to withhold funding for measures to restore confidence following food scandals.
although incentives have historically been designed to combat agricultural surpluses and subsequently food industry crises, it is considered that it is time to define more clearly incentive policies that encourage and reward the production of certain products that are attracted to quality programmes and farming activities that reduce co2 emissions, protect biodiversity and are more conducive to maintaining the quality of soil and water resources.
the european union must strive to export a sustainable agricultural model and its products.
i think that in the current economic climate and the commitment of the eu institutions to save, it would be appropriate to abandon this expensive system of translation, which is both written and spoken.
− i voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out new rules which will provide for stricter safety and pollution requirements for motorcycles.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for the harmonisation of the rules which will provide for stricter safety and pollution requirements for new bicycles and tricycles (category l).
some of the currently applicable legal provisions have been found to be too confusing and the aim is to simplify the existing legal framework and to introduce new administrative and technical requirements, such as those concerning environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance for dedicated vehicles.
some of the key requirements also relate to reducing emissions, improving road safety, and taking greater account of new available technologies, such as hybrid l-category vehicles.
it would also improve road safety and reduce emissions.
the proposal aims to ensure road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection and to complete the internal market in agricultural and forestry vehicles.
this is to ensure common rules for the functioning of the internal market and to reconcile them with a high level of road and occupational safety and environmental protection.
in my view, in order to ensure a high level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection and to complete the internal market for agricultural and forestry vehicles, a union-wide approval procedure for all categories of vehicles should be established, taking into account a balanced assessment of benefits and costs, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises.
however, in all cases, the new rules must meet high road safety and environmental requirements.
i agree with the need to create an eu-wide integrated payment environment to develop more efficient and secure payment instruments.
− i agree with the view expressed in this report, as it will create a secure, transparent and innovative payment environment, while enhancing the competitiveness of the european economy in the world.
− i voted in favour because, despite the changes to the new regulatory framework since the financial crisis, which would make the financial system safer and more sustainable, and perhaps because of them, a very large proportion of credit intermediation activities are still not sufficiently monitored and regulated.
at the same time, particular attention should be paid to the child's immediate environment, the family, and its responsibility to develop fully responsible citizens.
− i voted in favour of this proposal on creating a favourable environment for social enterprises in the eu.
in other words, i believe that in order to promote social enterprise in the eu, an environment must be created for innovation capacity and experimentation, the success or failure of which would be assessed by the eu institutions together with the member states over a given period of time.
with particular attention to improving the fiscal and legal environment, ensuring support from eu funds at all levels from national to eu.
− i voted in favour of this report because social enterprises play an important role in promoting social innovation and therefore need to create a favourable economic and regulatory environment in the social innovation economy.
we, members of the european parliament, underlined that the goals of a stronger economic union should be sustainable economic growth, more jobs and greater social cohesion.
− i voted in favour of this report because i believe that economic and monetary union is a means of achieving the objectives of the union and its member states, in particular the objectives of balanced and sustainable growth and a high level of employment.
this is a guarantee of balanced and sustainable growth and a high level of employment.
− i voted in favour of this report as it presents parliament's assessment of the activities of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) and the eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) in 2011. ten resolutions and two declarations were adopted in 2011. at the assembly in hungary, in addition to the reports drawn up by the three standing committees on democracy and constitutional order, budget support and water pollution, the jha adopted resolutions on democratic change in north africa and the middle east and the situation in côte d'ivoire.
the practical workshops on climate change and innovation in agriculture, education and development were particularly well received and attracted a great deal of interest.
the practical seminars in togo on energy, malaria and youth unemployment also provided an opportunity to discuss in depth important regional issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand we are told that shale gas can bring about an energy revolution because its resources are large enough and necessary for the needs of the economy.
and until there is a firm belief that this technology is safe enough and will not cause a very large and painful environmental disaster, then to talk about extracting such gas in europe, in my opinion, is too bold.
i would say that we should look for ways of extracting shale gas without harming the environment.
today, shale gas is being talked about around the world as a technology that could change the global energy balance within a few years.
today in the european parliament we are discussing two aspects of shale gas extraction: the economic and the environmental.
i think the present situation is unsatisfactory because, firstly, some countries are even banning the exploration of shale gas, which is not based on fear of possible ecological disasters.
environmental regulation is certainly not enough.
i therefore support the european parliament's view that environmental impact must be assessed in as much detail as possible and that the european union must be prepared to respond as effectively as possible.
there are many people in my country who say that even renewable energy is not environmentally friendly, that it poses certain problems, and i think there is no human activity that does not affect the environment in one way or another.
but i think shale gas is the way to energy independence and diversification.
it is important to note that trade policy can and must help create jobs and promote growth and sustainable development.
in order to maintain a sustainable and long-term trading relationship, it is essential that a mutually acceptable solution between trading partners is constantly pursued.
the commission should also be more effective in ensuring that member states transpose eu environmental legislation, which is the most infringing, into national law in a timely and appropriate manner.
it is essential that the commission use all other available means to ensure that member states transpose union legislation, in particular environmental legislation, in a timely and appropriate manner, as this is one of the most affected areas.
− i voted for this report because it is the parliament's position on the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction.
gas is and will remain an important source of energy throughout the eu at least until 2030 or 2035. although conventional gas production is declining, if the situation does not change, europe will still need to import significant amounts of gas for several decades.
the aim of regulation should be to minimise the impact on the environment and to strike a reasonable balance between scientific, statistical and risk-benefit considerations (and the related alternatives).
the different environmental impacts must take into account all the circumstances and comparable indicators.
such potential interference must be brought to the attention of the competent national authorities in the course of their regulatory activities, in particular in the application of the environmental impact assessment directive.
it is important to stress that extraction of non-conventional fossil fuels can also provide an excellent environment for economic strengthening, employment and development in certain eu regions.
− before starting to extract shale gas, a full assessment of the potential environmental and human health impacts is necessary.
it is also necessary to ensure fair and equal conditions of operation throughout the union and strict implementation of the requirements of eu safety and environmental legislation.
it should be noted that there is still no firm belief that the technology used to extract shale gas is sufficiently safe and will not cause major and painful environmental disasters related to the chemical pollution of drinking water, wastewater treatment, seismic effects and the possible emission of greenhouse gases.
before undertaking shale gas extraction, we must ensure that we are properly prepared: a detailed analysis of the work has been carried out, we are sure that the hydraulic fracturing will not affect the ecological balance (e.g.
according to the international energy agency, by 2035 european domestic gas production is projected to decline and demand to increase, leading to an increase in imports of 450 billion cubic metres.
it is therefore necessary to present, by the end of 2012, not only a planned energy action plan, but also an examination of the availability, scale and production of the eu's non-conventional gas resources.
− i abstained in this vote because the development of shale gas extraction is controversial in the eu and globally and requires a thorough assessment of all types of impacts (environment, public health and climate change) before further development of this technology.
however, these documents are only the first steps towards ensuring that this energy sector does not become a wild and unregulated business.
i therefore urge both the commission and the member states to take note of parliament's recommendations on both licensing and land use, taxation and the environment.
only then will shale gas become europe's energy future.
it is also very important to note that the development of shale gas extraction is subject to controversial assessments, which require a thorough assessment of all types of impacts (environment, public health and climate change) before further development of this technology.
− i voted in favour of this proposal on the environmental impact assessment of shale gas and shale oil extraction.
the main benefits of shale gas for the european union would be greater energy independence from imports, increased competition and lower prices and job creation.
however, shale gas production has a very negative impact on the environment, with large amounts of water used for its production, groundwater pollution and the risk of underground explosions.
the extraction of such unconventional fossil fuels can boost the eu economy and increase employment, but a thorough assessment of all types of impacts (environment, public health and climate change) is necessary before the technology can be developed.
i support the proposals that, despite the exclusive right of member states to exploit their energy resources, fossil fuel extraction should be carried out in a way that ensures a level playing field across the eu and that eu safety and environmental legislation is respected.
the committee on petitions' activities in the past year have focused on environmental and fundamental rights (justice) issues.
eu citizens and permanent residents have a legitimate expectation that the problems for which they turn to the committee on petitions will be resolved in a timely manner and in accordance with the legal framework of the european union, which they rely on to protect their rights as citizens of the union, in particular the right to the natural environment, health, freedom of movement, dignity and fundamental rights and freedoms.
i believe that more attention should be paid to the implementation of eu legislation in the fields of the environment, justice and the internal market, where the level of infringements is not decreasing.
four years ago, the european union declared climate change to be the greatest threat to humanity.
we have only seven years left to prevent the irreversible damage of climate change.
the impact of climate change on global security should be reflected in all key eu documents and an interinstitutional working group should be established to increase the capacity of the eu and its member states to anticipate and respond to natural disasters caused by climate change and their consequences.
the world's militaries, especially the largest, should make more efficient use of energy resources to help combat climate change.
the existing cooperation in the fields of energy, education and others is a good basis for further cooperation.
it is crucial that the european union supports kazakhstan’s moves towards an improved investment climate, diversified exports and tariff negotiations.
we have a number of cases where the institutions of the european union and individual member states have been the victims of cyberattacks, such as estonia in 2007. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− i voted in favour of this proposal for a multiannual plan for the sustainable management of the baltic salmon stock.
the baltic salmon stock should be exploited in accordance with the maximum allowable catch principle and in a way that is sustainable and that protects its diversity.
it is worth noting that the development of fisheries management plans for european union waters requires a comprehensive consultation of stakeholders in order to find compromise solutions that protect the environment and ensure the sustainable development of fisheries.
pollution, habitat destruction, hydroelectric dams, and other man-made problems have caused a dramatic decline in the population.
only with the right management of recreational fishing activities will the development of alternative forms of fishing be significantly contributed to, and this will encourage, the sustainable growth of regions dependent on fishing.
this is true not only of water quality and pollution, but also of the protection of biological resources, in particular the salmon stock.
i therefore support the view that the eu approach to fisheries and fisheries resource management must be based primarily on scientific data on the recovery and sustainable use of resources.
i support this report because it says that ecological recovery of salmon and environmental needs have to be balanced with economical aspects.
in order to achieve ethical and sustainable fisheries, the trust and communication methods between the stakeholders should be improved.
these measures concern the minimum landing size, the minimum mesh size, the zones and the closure periods, the limitation of the catch, the criteria for the use of fishing gear and the use of the means to ensure a wider choice of fishing gear and gear designed to protect the marine environment and to contribute to the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp).
it should be noted that technical measures based on scientific research are a guarantee of sustainable fishing and the protection of the right fishermen and their continuous application must therefore be ensured.
the practice of removing the fins of sharks, often while they are still alive, is intolerable, as it not only threatens the sustainability of some shark species, but also results in the loss of food components.
− i voted in favour of this report because the practice of shark finning is environmentally unacceptable, because it threatens the sustainability of some species of sharks that are fished, and also socially and economically because it results in the loss of commercially valuable food components, and morally because it is a practice that is totally disregardful of animal life.
− i voted in favour of this resolution on the doha climate change conference at the end of november.
the doha conference will negotiate a global, legally binding agreement on climate change, which should replace the kyoto protocol from 2020. i agree that the main objectives of the eu delegation to the negotiations should be to set a more ambitious greenhouse gas mitigation agenda and to move towards a global agreement on climate change.
i support the proposals that the eu should reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by 30% by 2020 compared to 1990. i agree that the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol should start on 1 january 2013 and that the transition to the new international system should be completed by 2020. it is also necessary to seek to mobilise the green climate fund for developing countries.
− i voted in favour of this report because the joint resolution recognises that climate change is an unavoidable and possibly irreversible threat to humanity and that this issue must be addressed at international level by all countries.
as recent research shows that, for example, the effects of climate change in the arctic are more rapid and more pronounced than previously predicted, as investments in the energy sector very often take 30 years or more, and as new projects and policies take a long time to plan, this clearly demonstrates the need for new energy action worldwide.
the eu should take a leadership role in the fight against climate change and reach a legally binding and binding agreement on a common long-term effort to mitigate climate change.
it is important to note that after 2012 - the last financial year of the 'rapid start' (the commitment of usd 30 billion over three years made in copenhagen) - there is no certainty about climate finance.
− the fight against climate change is a fairly new eu policy area.
while we are considering a host of new legislation to reduce the climate impact of human economic activity, we have not made much progress in this area internationally.
i agree with the vast majority of the provisions in the resolution, but i am convinced that they will remain mere words unless the european union is able to concentrate the efforts of all member states and finally speak with one voice in the international climate policy arena.
it is worth noting that doha will help lay the foundations for the global agreement on climate change in 2015. in this context, it is crucial that the eu succeeds in persuading its partners around the world to take more decisive action to join the international agreement.
only by working together to reduce emissions will we preserve fair competition and avoid disastrous changes for all of humanity.
in order to address the negative impacts of climate change, it is necessary to seek innovative and additional sources of financing.
the enlargement process has brought peace, stability and prosperity to many parts of europe and has allowed for the diffusion of norms such as human rights, environmental protection and liberal democracy.
the mediating efforts by egypt to achieve a ceasefire are very much welcome but it is necessary to address also the core of the problem in order to have the ceasefire which would be broad and sustainable as well as to ensure stability in the region.
in order to avoid duplication of effort and waste of resources, it is necessary to ensure closer political cooperation between the eu high representative and the nato secretary-general.
recently, security challenges have been confronted by a number of complex and evolving threats, such as international terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, fragmentation of countries, frozen and unending conflicts, organised crime, the threat of cybercrime, energy scarcity, environmental degradation and related security risks, natural and man-made disasters, pandemics and many others.
− i voted in favour of this report on the role of the common security and defence policy (csdp) in the event of climate crises and natural disasters (csdp).
i support the proposals made to include the adverse impact of climate change and natural disasters on peace and security in all the strategic documents of the cfsp and csdp.
− i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's position on the impact of climate change on global security, peace and stability.
it is worth noting that in recent years, the issue of climate change as the greatest threat to global security has been eclipsed in public debate and policy dialogue by the economic and financial crises.
it is recognised that climate change has implications for global security, peace and stability.
the fight against climate change through security measures can therefore be a positive one, but it is only one component of the eu's climate action, which aims to use political and economic means to mitigate and adapt to climate change.
− climate change has a clear impact on security, and while no conflict has been identified to date as being caused by climate change alone, the implications of natural disasters and climate change for international security must be taken into account.
i therefore support the inclusion of the negative impacts of climate change and natural disasters on peace, security and stability in the strategic planning of the cfsp and the csdp, in order to strengthen the capacity for rapid response and coordination of action, to develop the military sector's expertise, analysis and planning and knowledge sharing in this area, and to assess the negative environmental impacts of industry and activities with a view to reducing them.
the new agreement aims to lay down detailed provisions for the further development of eu-kazakhstan relations in areas such as human rights, good governance and democratisation, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport.
negotiating position ensure that the new partnership and cooperation agreement sets out detailed provisions for the further development of relations in all priority areas, including human rights, the rule of law, good governance and democratisation, youth and education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, environmental sustainability and water, and tackling common threats and challenges.
such an initiative would bring significant economic benefits (reduced tariffs, foreign investment, energy cooperation, economic and development assistance) to both partners as well as increased socio-political stability in central asia.
additionally, increased environmental regulation and protection (especially in the realm of water conservation) is a must – the eu can provide technical assistance on this issue.
i believe that in the fisheries sector it is important to adopt an approach that takes account of the biological, ecological and social levels in order to achieve a sustainable balance between the situation of existing resources in the various marine areas and the social and economic structure of coastal communities whose employment and well-being depend on fishing along the coast.
the proposal aims to promote the sustainability of eu fisheries beyond eu waters, including the outermost regions.
i agree that in order to ensure sustainable fisheries, it is necessary to improve the availability of data on the catches of fish stocks caught in the eu or destined for the eu market and to ensure that information on the catches of local fleets and those of third countries is available.
new systems for the fair and equitable allocation of resources among rfmo members, based on transparent ecological and social allocation criteria, while ensuring that management and safeguard measures are effectively implemented and enforced by all market participants, need to be adopted as a matter of urgency.
i welcomed the commission's communication and the many positive proposals it contained to promote the sustainability of eu fisheries and related activities outside eu waters, including in the outermost regions.
i believe that it is essential to coordinate foreign and cooperation policies in order to establish sustainable fisheries agreements and to create the necessary synergies to contribute more effectively to the development of the third countries concerned, since the maintenance of fisheries agreements and the search for new fishing opportunities in third countries should be a priority objective of the external fisheries policy.
unfortunately, it cannot be said that this country has yet achieved an equivalent level of environmental protection and conservation of fisheries resources.
the eu has committed eur 30 million in macro-financial assistance, which, together with the reform programme, will help kyrgyzstan to reduce its short-term financing needs, achieve a stronger balance of payments and fiscal sustainability, promote sustainable growth and improve the efficiency and transparency of public financial management.
− i voted in favour of this proposal to align the implementation of the energy star programme with the new us-eu agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for stationery.
energy star is an energy efficiency programme, and products qualifying for this programme use less energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i believe that 'energy star' is a dynamic policy tool that is well suited to the ever-changing ict products.
− i voted in favour of this report as it aims to update the former 'energy star' programme on the harmonisation of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for stationery and to bring it into line with the eu-us agreement currently being updated on this subject.
this new agreement should clarify the respective obligations of the member states and the commission in relation to the implementation of the energy star programme and consider alternative policy options.
this is intended to contribute to the achievement of the energy efficiency targets of the member states and the union.
pursuant to the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european community on the harmonisation of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for stationary equipment, regulation (ec) no 106/2008 of the european parliament and of the council implements the energy star programme in the union.
this regulation establishes union energy-efficiency labelling programmes for stationary equipment.
i have agreed to the amendments to this regulation as the support from the energy star programme contributes to the achievement of the energy efficiency objectives of the member states and the union
in writing.
− as we have repeatedly noted in our documents, the use of energy-efficient appliances is one of the main ways of achieving both economic and environmental objectives.
the energy star label is well known in the european union and i am convinced that we must continue to promote its use.
it is important that the commission actively support the appropriate absorption of this aid through economic convergence instruments with the eu in order to make it more sustainable.
the purpose of the agency is to prevent pollution from ships, to ensure safe navigation and to monitor and evaluate eu legislation in this area.
the revised regulation will extend the mandate of the emsa to prevent and respond to environmental disasters such as oil and gas spills.
since the establishment of the agency in 2003, the eu has been actively responding to oil pollution and is preparing to do so in the future.
emsa contributes to the safety of shipping and the prevention of pollution from ships at sea, including the monitoring and evaluation of relevant eu legislation.
the agency will now have to help eu countries combat pollution at sea following an accident on oil and gas platforms, as well as fighting piracy and cutting red tape.
− as we emphasised in the first reading, in the current state of the marine environment, with the increasing economic activity at sea and the resulting new threats, emsa can and must be the body that coordinates actions to protect the marine environment, prevent environmental disasters and take preventive measures and measures in the event of such disasters.
i agree with the need to fully respect the main international labour and environmental conventions in the process of liberalisation and to involve the european parliament and all stakeholders in the process.
the agreement provides for a stabilisation measure for imports of bananas which may suspend the application of the preferential rate of duty until 1 january 2020. given the provisions and the purpose of the agreement, it is important that this liberalisation process be conducted in full compliance with the main international labour and environmental conventions, that the regulation be implemented in the most transparent way possible and that all stakeholders, including industry, civil society organisations, non-governmental organisations, trade unions and other actors, be involved.
i agree with the rapporteur that this agreement is not only the first one of its kind, but it accomplishes the objective of creating an appropriate context to provide social integration, cohesion and sustainable development, which are key elements to achieving economic consolidation, growth and social and democratic stability.
i support the aim of creating an eu-central america free trade area with a stable and predictable regime that encourages investment, greater participation of central america in world trade, efficient management of resources, environmental protection and increased competitiveness.
additionally, environmental protection must be guaranteed in the face of increasing economic cooperation.
i agree that the liberalisation process must fully respect the main international labour and environmental conventions and involve the european parliament more in the negotiations on the trade agreements themselves.
it is also necessary to assess the compliance of colombia and peru with social and environmental standards.
the implementation of this agreement requires full respect for international labour and environmental conventions, with emphasis on the role of trade unions, ngos and civil society organisations.
during the negotiations, which began as early as 2007, the eu achieved many of its objectives, including the abolition of high tariffs, the removal of technical barriers to trade, the liberalisation of services markets, the opening of public procurement markets and commitments to implement labour and environmental standards.
the newly established bilateral dispute settlement mechanism will ensure a transparent and predictable environment for eu operators and investors operating in the region.
while the nature of the agreement is primarily economic, human rights provisions, which cover the core labour standards set by the ilo and the multilateral environmental agreements, must also play an important role.
it is therefore essential that the parties ensure sufficient technical and financial capacity to help ensure full compliance with the sustainability standards set out in the trade agreement and that human rights review, monitoring and evaluation are carried out.
but what can help more rural areas to achieve sustainable development, especially in new member states like lithuania, is to slaughter animals and process meat as close as possible to where they are raised.
it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
noise standards are also addressed in another european union legislation known as the environmental noise directive (directive 2002/49/ec on the assessment and management of environmental noise), which requires member states to identify the main sources of environmental noise, assess the impact of noise and take appropriate action.
although the european union is a world leader in environmental legislation and in the fight against climate change, it still faces a noise problem, with an increasing number of people exposed to noise at airports, especially at night, and with negative health effects recognised in many scientific reports.
i therefore welcome the resolution's provision for slaughtering animals as close as possible to their place of production, thereby reducing the potential for animal welfare violations and promoting sustainable regional growth and development and the development of small businesses in rural areas.
i also welcome the expectations of the ep in the field of energy, in particular the call for russia to join the espo convention and the need to ensure that new and existing nuclear infrastructure fully complies with international safety standards.
in short, it is essential to financially support and develop research and to increase the efficiency and sustainability of production in this sector.