as the rapporteur for the energy efficiency directive, i will try to move this parliament into a position where we can reach a deal with you.
although we have talked a lot about the economy today, although we have talked a lot about greece today, it is also important to remember that the outlook and direction of a presidency also concerns other areas, and that is also why the international environmental/climate agenda is important to put both at the g8, at the g20 and, of course, at the eu+20 meetings.
the european union's share of global greenhouse gas emissions is decreasing anyway.
mr president, i would be tempted to introduce my remarks with the words: 'what a waste!'
instead of dreaming of sustainable development, let us fight for strong growth.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the debate on energy taxation in europe must be conducted on the basis of the observation that tax harmonization in the european union has always made only modest progress.
the proposal for a directive which has been submitted to us for an opinion is much more than an update of the text which dates from 2003. this time it is to support the objective of a low-carbon economy and, through the introduction of a co2 element, to promote the union's commitments to combat climate change.
i am certainly in favour of the commission's methodological approach, which aims to tax energy on a double basis, that of co2 emissions and that of energy content.
it does not seem to me to be appropriate to require member states which set their rates above the minimum levels to respect the proportionality between the various minimum thresholds applicable to each energy source.
this would generally lead to an increase in energy prices, which are already rising.
in particular, support for and opposition to the principle of the split in the tax base with a co2 and energy content element remains fairly evenly distributed.
everybody supports the single market act, and the proposal on the energy taxation directive is one of 12 keys initiatives in this.
as regards the treatment of agriculture, i would like to make it clear that the member states will retain the possibility of exempting agriculture, provided that some environmental counterpart is ensured.
however, i would like to stress again that isolating the co2 element in energy taxation would allow companies that are subject to the ets to be exempt from it.
- under the pretext of a sustainable energy policy, the directive is primarily aimed at taxing diesel more heavily than petrol.
the directive also sends the wrong signal in terms of european industrial policy and is contrary to the directives adopted so far to reduce co2 emissions from motor vehicles.
in the field of the environment, the polluter pays principle would be applied.
the longer this deadlock remains, the more difficult it will be to explain to citizens that we cannot move ahead with these important fisheries management tools to ensure the sustainability of stocks.
this means that the competitive environment in the single market is unacceptable, because some producers who exceed their individual quota are penalized and others are not, simply because they live a few kilometres away, separated by a border.
i think that in this pilot phase, environmental criteria are important because we have to stop building infrastructure that takes us further away from climate goals and also from energy goals.
a concrete weakness i see is that we have not actually planned large projects with renewable energy sources, for example.
the connecting europe facility is also only talking about infrastructure and not renewable energy sources, and it is not clear how this pilot phase will continue later.
the danish energy company dong has recently sold a large wind farm to the danish pension fund.
this means that there are opportunities to have large renewable energy projects built in the first phase by specialists who can manage risk and then in the second phase to be sold to other investors, creating new opportunities for those who know the business.
mitigating the effects of climate change on developing countries must be additional money compared to conventional official development assistance.
let us set ourselves binding targets based on demanding and sustainable development criteria.
let us be the model of sustainability that other geographical and economic spaces can take inspiration from.
to be clear about the commission’s position: we believe that the extension of the sulphur emissions control areas – secas – to other zones in european waters, especially in the mediterranean, would yield promising heath benefits.
secas are a cost-effective tool for addressing air pollution.
fourthly, as mr groote mentioned, next year our focus will be on air pollution, and we will come with a review of the air policy, including a review of the nec directive.
more and more scientific facts clearly show the impact of air pollution on human health, and it is simply impossible to ignore this.
my final comment: as one of your colleagues mentioned, coherence between economic activity and the environment is, of course, of fundamental importance.
− mr president, as the rapporteur, i can proudly announce that today this house will discuss, and even more importantly, adopt, by a very large and broad majority, the energy efficiency directive.
i am proud that once again it was the directly-elected european parliament, which, after having brought europe on to the right track on the internal market and on renewable energies, has again been the most progressive institution in making this compromise possible at the end of the day.
our economies in europe are also weak because in 2011 alone we lost the astronomic sum of eur 488 billion in having to buy oil, gas and other energy supplies.
firstly, all the people in europe who are complaining about energy costs being too high.
we do not control the oil price, but we can help citizens to invest in reducing their energy consumption.
it will be so much better, bring so much more hope, if, with this directive, we can deliver not only organisation of energy in the future, but also guarantee the professional future of many young europeans.
it is very important that, in the context of the discussions on the eu budget, we now make energy efficiency a priority for the structural funds; we need project bonds for efficiency; the european investment bank has to step in; and all this requires follow-up action.
at this very moment, the commission is forcing the uk government to have vat rates for energy efficiency products that are four times higher than the rates for gas and oil.
firstly, we have common climate objectives, and energy efficiency is an important tool for better climate policy.
this is why energy targets at european level make sense.
in addition, the 20% increase in energy efficiency is a common objective developed and decided by parliament, the council and the commission.
we have not really made any progress since the decision was taken in 2007. in other words, it is necessary to take binding european action now if the goal of greater energy efficiency by 2020 that you have set is to be achieved at all.
secondly, the issue of buildings and energy is of crucial importance, both in relation to industrial buildings and to public buildings, infrastructure and private buildings.
if you take a normal building and you renovate it from the roof to the basement in an energy-efficient way - with the most modern materials and windows, with ict, with modern fuel-efficient boilers with the highest energy efficiency - then the investment, the cost, will be reimbursed, at the earliest after 15, doubtless after 25 years, by a decreasing energy bill for heating and electricity.
that is why i think it is important and necessary that in our budget proposal, which you are debating in these weeks, we allocate billions of euros each year for co-financing in our european structural programmes for the financial years 2014 to 2020, and that we attach a very high priority to energy efficiency in our member states and in our regions and municipalities which are requesting the funds.
i believe that a golden rule, an incentive in the best sense, must be given priority here, to reduce national and local budgets more on energy efficiency in existing buildings.
i agree with you that it would be desirable if a reduced tax would create an incentive for energy-efficient appliances and the purchase of such appliances.
when the ets system was introduced - you were there, i wasn't there - there were certain expectations: so the expectation of creating a market-based incentive for co2 emissions reductions.
the commission is also expected to encourage investment in the energy sector, industry and the private sector to prevent co2 emissions from these new technologies.
this means that there are no real incentives for investments to reduce and avoid co2 emissions.
now, we as the commission made a proposal in july and decided that we would allocate certain co2 emissions that are allocated annually on the way to 2020 later, that is, not next year and not the year after, but at the end of the decade, in order to achieve a certain change in supply and demand and thus also to send a price signal.
but the real question is not whether certain quantities of co2 emissions should be marketed later, as our present proposal provides for under the existing legislation, but whether there should be no market at all in the period up to 2020, which means that there should be a shortage of allowances in general and not just a delay in market access.
when the ets was created as a market economy instrument to reduce co2 emissions in europe, we also had an external expectation.
the issue of co2 and climate change is not a factor in the american election campaign.
so we have to assume that, no matter who wins the election, there will not be a majority in the next congress for binding co2 reduction targets, for binding global climate change.
the problem is that we, the european union, with 500 million people, are still responsible for 11% of the world's co2 emissions.
what we have achieved here is that in march 2007, with the help of chancellor merkel, a political target was set: europe is going to achieve 20% more energy efficiency, in renewable energy and in the climate.
renewable energy and climate then got laws, became binding.
what we are doing here is actually translating mrs merkel's promise into concrete legislation and creating a new architecture for energy efficiency in europe, with a maximum primary energy consumption in europe in 2020 of 1,474 million tonnes of oil equivalent.
it is also important for the big energy companies and the industrial capitalists.
we've made a little bit of energy history again.
we are concerned about the impact of a company's activities on the internal market and that is why we have opened this inquiry, as we have opened so many others in the energy, electricity, gas and many other sectors.
and in the energy field, it is particularly important for all our citizens.
this report calls for a whole series of studies, statistics, programmes and new indicators from the commission and the member states, taking account of climate change, biodiversity, etc.
we know that the most sustainable way of addressing poverty is by supporting governments of countries with a credible strategy.
first, it was allegedly organized by the citizens initiative for responsible energy.
it is the work of three polish energy companies, such as pgnig and others.
as soon as a new technology is developed, whether it be biotechnology, nanotechnology or now unconventional energy, europeans are torn about the possible risks posed by these technologies, while the rest of the world seizes the new opportunities they offer.
but they have no right to forbid others to advocate for this energy, even through an exhibition like the one the green censors want to forbid.
according to the international energy agency, shale gas will become a key component of the global energy mix.
i hope that europe will not cut off from this indispensable source of energy.
the house also called for the eu to be seen as a "leading example" in the fight against climate change, and called for the eu to be seen as a "leading example" in the fight against climate change.
we're not going to build a better environment by holding onto illusions.
its aim is to ensure fiscal sustainability and finally to break the link between banks and sovereigns.
it is important — it is, indeed, essential — that the european council gives a clear message that the individual decisions taken so far and still to be taken are embedded in a comprehensive approach that guarantees the irreversibility and the sustainability of the emu and the euro.
inequality is not sustainable, and that is why we must also strengthen social cohesion.
continued reform is needed to generate sustainable growth and jobs.