but it is also important to address energy issues, which are playing an increasingly important role in geopolitics.
in particular, the establishment of a common external energy policy for the european union must be promoted.
i want to say, for my part, that the world has reached a point where agricultural products are now used for both food and energy.
relevant provisions for actions in the field of aviation safety and security, traffic management and environmental protection are an integral part of the memorandum of cooperation.
− to tackle climate change, to avoid environmental damage and to keep hold of the valuable resources in electric/electronic equipment, we need high collection rates, high recycling rates and appropriate recycling standards, strong legislation against illegal export, an enhanced producer’s responsibility, better designed equipment and a fair distribution of responsibilities and costs between producers, consumers and public authorities.
here are the key elements of the agreement: approved active substances will be included in a union list; derogation from mutual recognition of national authorisations – under certain conditions, member states have the possibility to refuse to grant an authorisation or to adjust the terms and conditions of an authorisation for a biocidal product if there are specific concerns; inclusion of a new article on measures to achieve the objective of sustainable use of biocidal products; labelling requirements.
− this very timely report identifies problems upstream of farm production, focusing on the rising costs of purchased farm inputs over the past decade in the fields of energy, machinery, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds and water.
− the research conducted with the participation of the commission shows that food waste reaches annually 89 million tonnes or 179 kg per person.
adopting the report by mrs caronna, i think that it is necessary to define a strategy for a more efficient food chain and take measures on decreasing food waste.
for my part, i believe that more attention should be paid to the recycling of organic waste, especially in areas where there is active agriculture.
organic waste is relatively easy to recycle if it is incinerated, but we lose a lot of value in this way.
this type of waste is very suitable for producing new value added products and could also be financed under the second pillar for agriculture.
stricter standards are needed for both waste management and the use of chemicals in agriculture and industry.
the amendments proposed by the european commission, which provide for the possibility of labelling food products as containing 15% less sugar, fat or salt, would mislead consumers about the true energy value and health of the product.
in particular, sugar can be replaced by sweeteners, which does not change the energy value of the product.
a handful of member states, including denmark, netherlands, austria and sweden are very advanced; indeed no petitions have been received from citizens in these countries expressing any concern about waste management.
however, many other eu countries are far behind in their implementation of waste strategies and in this context the legacy of the past, and an excessive dependence on landfill options, linked to the need to change attitudes towards waste disposal, has caused serious breaches of eu legislation to occur.
− the aim of this report is demonstrating and enhancing both political will and financial commitment from the eu and thus playing a fundamental role in achieving universal energy access by 2030. in that sense the report is very timely and useful.
nevertheless, even though the structure could be improved and the focus shifted, thanks to good negotiations with the rapporteur, important points are taken like acknowledging commission proposals like the ccctb, ftt, energy taxation, vat, recognising the need to reduce expenditure as much as raising public revenues.
− i supported the european parliament's resolution on the annual report on eu competition policy because i believe that it is a true indication of the existing shortcomings in the energy market.
the citizens of latvia and the european union as a whole have an interest in competition between energy producers to ensure the lowest possible price for heat and electricity.
unfortunately, competition in the energy market remains significantly limited as the largest players continue to dominate the market.
it is therefore important that the european parliament continues to draw attention to these shortcomings in the energy market.
however, the commission's plan to divert €82 billion of unallocated structural funds resources, including €22 billion from the european social fund, should still be carefully analysed with the member states concerned, where and how these resources can be invested more effectively in the sustainable development of the labour market, in particular with a view to creating jobs for young people.
if france were to support it, however, i think most other countries would quickly join it, because, indeed, the commuting of members and staff between these two places of work is a huge and useless waste of european taxpayers' money.
− i am confident that, to maintain the biomass of western horse mackerel at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation and to provide the highest long-term yield; the harvest control rule should be based in equal parts on precautionary advice and on recent total allowable catches, adjusted by a factor that reflects the recent trend.
parliament takes the view, therefore, that the reformed cfp needs to guarantee the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and the preservation of fish stocks at a healthy level, so that fishing activities can continue in their traditional areas and communities in the long term.
i must say that i regret that the reference to the need to diversify the supply of energy resources to the eu, which was included in the original draft resolution of the ecr group, has disappeared from the final version of the resolution, as has the call for the eu not to adopt double standards in its relations with russia, such as exempting from part of the provisions contained in the third energy act as a whole and focusing on ensuring free access to energy transmission and distribution networks.
it is also of the opinion that the conclusion of free trade agreements will adversely affect small farmers, working people and young people, as well as the environment, in both the southern mediterranean and the eu.
the resolution urges the commission to initiate new negotiations with a clear mandate to meet the needs of sustainable economic and social development, food sovereignty and food security, both in morocco and in the eu countries, assuring mutual benefits and avoiding competition among producers on both sides of the mediterranean.
− global monitoring for environment and security is an earth-monitoring initiative under the leadership of the eu.
− according to the rapporteur, moving towards a low carbon economy by 2050 will not only help address the major threats and challenges posed by climate change but will also significantly contribute into turning the european economy into an competitive, efficient and innovative economy able to stay at the forefront of global developments.
i am concerned that the not entirely legitimate results of the russian presidential election have now for many years served as the basis for the policies pursued by our neighbour latvia - both attempts to destabilise the domestic political situation and to seize economic influence, especially in the transport and energy sectors.
− the oral question adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety focuses on the commission’s role in the political process leading to the 6th world water forum as well as the concrete actions the commission will propose in order to address the challenges that europe and the world, in particular developing countries, have to face in the 21st century, in order to safeguard water resources, guarantee water quality and availability worldwide and improve the communication and implementation of water goals.
furthermore, it stresses that public health and environmental protection should be priorities for any water management policy, while addressing the role of water in economic development.
as climate change and chemical and biological pollution are major contributors to the decline in the quantity and quality of water worldwide, coordinated action is needed at national, european and global level to address these challenges.
complete, understandable and accessible information, including on co2 emissions, is also of key importance for passengers.
− i disagree with the epp rapporteur because i think that the crisis should be dealt with by bringing in fair and sustainable corporate governance measures – in particular binding rules on issues such as worker participation and gender balance.
it is hampering growth and causing problems for sustainable growth and employment.
we need both fiscal consolidation and sustainable growth for the sake of sustainable development.
overall – not least thanks to the six-pack, the new economic governance and your support for this new framework for economic governance – we are getting results as regards fiscal consolidation in the euro area and in the whole european union, which is a necessary condition for sustainable growth and job creation.
what do we need for sustainable growth?
i want to ensure that we can start the first concrete projects moving in the course of the coming months – this summer – in order to have investment in infrastructure, energy, transport and communication, which means sustainable employment for europe.
for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation, we need more european cross-border and community investment in infrastructure, energy, transport, innovation, research and communication.
the package also looks at the major structural challenges facing europe – to which ms cornelissen referred in her speech – such as the move towards a low-carbon and resource-efficient economy, the demographic ageing of our societies and rapid technological change.
this is also why the new economic governance is so crucial and essential, because any form of partial joint issuance of public debt which would help to stabilise the european economy is only acceptable in europe for many member states if they can be certain that fiscal prudence and economic sustainability are ensured and guaranteed.
you can rest assured that the commission defends a very ambitious policy agenda of sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
sustainable growth, job creation and employment really matter to our citizens in europe.
- i voted against the proposal for a council directive which aims to change the taxation of energy products in the european union.
during the negotiations on the necessary amendments, i took the firm position that this directive is only acceptable if it does not lead to an increase in taxes on energy products and latvian taxpayers do not have to pay more for them than they do now.
in the european union as a whole, such changes in tax legislation would also send a bad signal to industry and could change the energy taxation structures of individual countries.
− the european commission's proposal to harmonise the rules on the taxation of energy products and electricity has been a highly controversial issue, with sharply diverging national and industrial interests.
in my view, the european union has in recent years promoted policies that support biodiversity in our europe, preventing certain cultures, plants and species from becoming over-extinct or extinct.
the increasing importance of the electronic environment in everyday processes and the potential for improving the productivity of people and businesses through its development require that e-government services be available to as many people as possible and that services such as e-signatures and e-invoicing be developed as quickly as possible, while ensuring that those who, for example, have limited or no access to the internet, are not affected.
i believe that a secure and sustainable system is needed to promote growth and competitiveness for all of europe.
− in the resolution, the european parliament welcomes the transparent and credible conduct of the by-elections of 1 april, deemed to be free by international observers, while noting the reported irregularities in the run-up to the poll; trusts that the newly elected parliamentarians will take up their duties as soon as possible; supports the authorities in their efforts to guarantee that the reform process is sustainable and irreversible; expresses its great respect for the long struggle over decades of opposition leader and sakharov prize winner aung san suu kyi, congratulates her on her party’s victory in the april by-elections and applauds her courage and tenacity as an example of selfless courage and struggle for freedom and democracy in the face of tyranny; urges the burmese government to introduce amendments to the 2008 constitution, prior to the 2015 elections, that would remove the military’s role in civilian politics.
− the european parliament deplores the decision taken by the argentine government, disregarding a negotiated solution, to proceed with the expropriation of the majority of shares of a european company; maintains that this represents a unilateral and arbitrary decision which entails an attack on the exercise of free enterprise and the principle of legal certainty, thus causing the investment environment for eu businesses in argentina to deteriorate; notes that this decision affects only one undertaking in the sector and only part of its shares, which could be considered discriminatory; urges the european commission and the council to explore and adopt any measures required to safeguard european interests in order to avoid such situations arising again, including the possible partial suspension of the unilateral tariff preferences.
− many still regard climate change as a purely scientific and/or technical issue.
however, since societies still largely rely on gendered roles and responsibilities, women and men do not have the same impact on climate change and – more importantly – are differently affected by climate change.
the inclusion of gender issues provides an opportunity to make the fight against climate change stronger, fairer and more effective.
− biodiversity is crucial for the functioning of ecosystems which provide us with products and services without which we could not live.
biodiversity loss is one of the most serious global environmental threats alongside climate change, and the two are closely linked.
statistics illustrate that biodiversity losses are continuing at alarming rates in the eu and worldwide, despite the fact that the importance of biodiversity is widely acknowledged.
urgent action is needed, and the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 looks at the necessary measures to secure nature and ecosystem services for future generations.
biodiversity should be included into all eu policies.
− a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are prerequisites for guaranteeing the quality of life as well as preserving the stability of the ecosystems.
environmental action programmes have guided the development of eu environment policy and they should continue to do so through the 7th environmental action programme, which will provide for an overarching framework that makes it possible to deal with both persistent and emerging environmental and sustainability challenges.
i support the agencies as they help make our food safer, our environment cleaner and our planes and flights safer and more secure.
− i support the fisheries control agency since it makes our food safer and the environment cleaner.
− the european chemicals agency (echa) is the driving force among regulatory authorities in implementing the eu’s groundbreaking chemicals legislation for the benefit of human health and the environment, as well as for innovation and competitiveness.
− the task of the european environment agency is to provide sound, independent information on the environment for those involved in developing, adopting, implementing and evaluating environmental policy, and also the general public.
firstly, the agency has been tasked with assisting the commission in monitoring the implementation of eu legislation relating, among others, to ship construction and planned maintenance, ship inspection and the reception of ship waste in eu ports, certification of marine equipment, ship security, the training of seafarers in non-eu countries and port state control.
its mission is to develop breakthrough technologies to increase significantly the environmental performances of airplanes and air transport, resulting in less noisy and more fuel-efficient aircraft, hence bringing a key contribution to achieving the single european sky environmental objectives.
− the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch ju) is a unique public private partnership supporting research, technological development and demonstration (rtd) activities in fuel cell and hydrogen energy technologies in europe.
its aim is to accelerate the market introduction of these technologies, realising their potential as an instrument in achieving a carbon-lean energy system.
− fusion for energy (f4e) is the european union’s joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
f4e is responsible for providing europe’s contribution to iter, the world’s largest scientific partnership that aims to demonstrate fusion as a viable and sustainable source of energy.
f4e also supports fusion research and development initiatives through the broader approach agreement, signed with japan – a fusion energy partnership which will last for 10 years.
− this is an increasingly important area in the current financial climate.
furthermore, it looks at greater commercial engagement balanced alongside human rights, democracy, sustainable development and corporate social responsibility.
− this regulation seeks to reduce the risks of accidental oil pollution in european waters through accelerated phasing-in of double-hull requirements.
if the hull is damaged following a collision or grounding, there is a risk that the cargo tanks will discharge their contents into the sea and cause major pollution.
this ‘double hull’ design protects the cargo tanks from damage and thus reduces the pollution risk.
our future growth is dependent on sustainable public finances and budgetary discipline rather than on creating new debt and deficit.
− this report calls for increased cooperation and coordination at eu level on energy policy in order to speak with one voice to the rest of the world and with key suppliers and transit countries of energy.
the report also highlights the need for diversification of suppliers, the need for new and improved energy infrastructure and the export of our knowhow and technology to help third countries and spread the highest environmental and safety standards throughout the world.
− the report 'building energy policy cooperation with partners outside the eu: a strategic approach to secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply' is certainly to be welcomed.
its main objective is to improve the coordination of eu member states' energy policies with third countries by promoting the application of the eu's common principles of market liberalisation, diversification of energy supplies and a single eu energy market.
these objectives are particularly important for the baltic states, which remain isolated in terms of energy infrastructure, an island isolated from the rest of the eu.
it is also important to note that the report states that each region must always have access to at least two different sources of energy supply.
this principle is mentioned in the communication from the european commission entitled 'energy infrastructure priorities for 2020'.
the report also strongly supports the call for the eu and its member states to achieve a single internal energy market that can function in the face of external pressures and attempts to use energy supply and energy prices as a foreign policy tool.
the need to increase funding for energy market interconnection projects in the eu and to complete the european gas and electricity network by 2015, in particular with regard to the baltic interconnection plan, is therefore underlined.
before we approve the multiannual budget, we need to reach political agreement on reforming the own resources system to ensure its transparency, fairness and sustainability.
− the report put forward the annual ep recommendations to the council regarding the 67th un general assembly notably the role of the eu at the un, global governance, peace and security, reform of the security council, development issues including sustainable development and climate change and human rights, international justice and democracy support.
therefore it will enable developing countries to participate more fully in international trade and thereby generate additional export revenue to support income growth and the implementation of their own sustainable development and poverty reduction policy strategies.
− eu budget does not fulfil its intended purpose as an investment budget with a strong leverage effect; under 45% of the budgeted spend falls under heading one, sustainable growth, with the remainder being earmarked for other purposes which have little to do with strategic investment in europe.
eu 2020 strategy has been set as a substantial objective to support sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment in europe and was approved by the 27 member states, but the failure of the lisbon strategy on which it is based does not lend any credibility for the eu 2020 strategy.
− regrets that, although the chapter on trade and sustainable development includes legally binding provisions, there is no binding dispute settlement mechanism for this chapter in the trade agreement, and that the use of the measures and sanctions foreseen in the trade agreement’s binding general dispute settlement mechanism is excluded in the case of violations of the standards set forth in the chapter on trade and sustainable development, constituting a weakening of the current binding conditions.
− since the completion of the single market, based on a balanced development of the economic, social and environmental dimensions, represents a formidable drive for a successful growth strategy for the eu, i voted in favour.
− i believe that to accelerate job creation, we need proposals towards a european investment plan, a coherent european industrial strategy and investment in public services, based on new sources of revenue, including a financial transactions tax and eurobonds, giving priority to investments that promote a sustainable economy, quality jobs and social justice, while fighting inequalities.
and the danish presidency has been very tempted to devote all its energy and all its efforts to these issues alone, leaving everything else that is also important to us to the side.
i would like to emphasise the energy sector.
in the interests of the future, it is of course very important that we move towards a single european energy policy.
this will increase our energy security, help reduce co2 emissions and - very importantly - help reduce our dependence on imports.
and under the danish presidency, we have dealt with both energy efficiency legislation and legislation that we will only vote on in this house in september on energy supplies from third countries.
and in this legislation on energy supply contracts with third countries, the danish presidency faced absolute opposition from the rest of the council.
in fact, most of the council member states were not in favour of adopting this legislation at all in any form, and thanks to the leadership of the danish presidency, a compromise solution has been reached, which parliament will be able to vote on again in september, but which will take us one step closer to a common energy policy.
so, all due respect and thanks to the danish presidency, which has devoted energy and effort not only to solving the economic crisis, but also to other issues that are important to us.
deep and comprehensive free trade agreements are vital instruments for building up long-term economic ties with our eastern partners and are important tools to foster economic reform, the rule of law and social and environmental standards in our neighbourhood.
− the european commission proposed in october 2011 to launch a pilot phase (mid 2012 - 2013) for project bonds to support european investments in 3 specific sectors: transport, energy and information and communication technologies.
−today's vote on the sulphur content of marine fuels is a major step towards improving air quality on europe's coasts, given that pollution from ships could already exceed that from land-based sources by 2020. this directive implements the standards set by the international maritime organisation in 2008 in eu legislation with the aim of reducing the overall sulphur limit value in european seas to 0,5%.
− limitations on sulphur emissions from marine fuels are needed in general to reduce air pollution from ships, especially in coastal areas.
support for this position was found both in the transport committee and in the environment committee.
without labour market reforms and productivity gains in the member states, sustainable growth cannot be achieved.
− the reform of the common fisheries policy has long been needed to bring fisheries management under control, to ensure sustainable fish stocks, to stop overfishing and to ensure future income for fishermen.
however, this scenario should offer a solution that balances the development of the economic sector, its environmental impact and the long-term social interest.
if the fleet is completely worn out and old, modernisation measures alone are not sufficient to meet the requirements for safety, environmental protection and fuel economy.
− we know that we in the european union are very dependent on energy imports.
of course, it is very important for us - for europe - to ensure a secure and stable supply of energy.
currently, each member state of the european union concludes bilateral agreements with a third country supplier for these energy supplies.
and of course there is the possibility that european legislation is not fully complied with, in particular, there is the possibility that competition through fixed energy supply networks in the gas sector that she is not available to competition.
the commission would then not only be able to assess whether these contracts comply with european legislation and competition is nevertheless ensured in terms of infrastructure, but also to create a possibility of coordination where europe could start to speak with one voice with these third country energy suppliers.
but i call on my colleagues to support this compromise, to support this legislation, we are moving towards a single european energy policy, we are moving towards safeguarding the interests of our consumers.
to sum up, let us remember what our main task is in the energy field in this particular case.
we have to think about the european energy consumers, about competition, about the best, lowest, fairest prices for our citizens.
this bill, although not perfect, is an important first step, it establishes this information exchange mechanism and it will lay the real foundations, the first legislative foundations, which will shape the future single external energy policy of the european union.
in its resolution, parliament stressed that cohesion policy must be based on a stable, sound and sustainable financial framework in order to effectively reduce macroeconomic imbalances and promote economic, social and territorial cohesion, stressing that cohesion funding should be maintained at least at the 2007-2013 level.
i sincerely hope that these restrictions will change the climate of impunity that exists in that country.
the current basic regulation (council regulation 2371/2002 of 20 december 2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy) will remain in force until a new regulation has been adopted, except for a provision in its article 17(2) on access rules and restrictions for the 12 nautical miles waters which expires on 31 december 2012. taking into account that a new basic regulation will not be adopted before that date, the provisions of this article will no longer apply.
the number of people worldwide affected by disasters, including as a consequence of global climate change, is on the rise.
for example, opening bank accounts, not being able to exercise the option of switching energy suppliers because of the lack of clear and comparable information.
− this report maintains that policy coherence for development (pcd) can contribute to poverty reduction by finding fundamental synergies among eu policies and underlines that pcd is a chance for the eu to establish equal and sustainable partnerships with developing countries that go beyond development cooperation.
the opening of russia’s economy to more international trade and investment should serve as an incentive for the russian government to pursue reforms fighting corruption, implementing the rule of law and enhancing the business climate.
in this context, remembering that today is the ninth anniversary of the arrest of former head of yukos mikhail hodorkovsky – a clear example of the business climate remaining unfavourable in russia – i join my colleagues in demanding an independent and impartial investigation into the yukos case.
− the offshore protocol is one of the protocols to the ‘barcelona convention’ for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean: it covers a wide range of exploration and exploitation activities, as well as permit requirements, removal of installations, harmful substances, coordination at regional level, and provisions on safety, contingency planning and monitoring.
− we achieve higher safety standards for road users and lower emissions from two-wheel type vehicles in order to protect the environment as well as guaranteeing the well functioning of the internal market.
− only a comprehensive combination of legal, technical and educational means including prevention can adequately address the dangers that children face in the online environment.
− social enterprises often provide social services and are important drivers of sustainable employment, social innovation and the inclusion of vulnerable groups.
it is in everyone's interest to achieve a sustainable future for the union by treating everyone fairly.
− the european union must allow member states to exploit the energy resources at their disposal, which is why i supported the european parliament's report on the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction.
the extraction of shale gas requires strict environmental requirements, which at the same time do not limit the use of this energy resource.
therefore, there is a need for clarity on environmental requirements and standards that would allow companies to develop shale gas extraction.
carbon dioxide is an important resource that could potentially allow the european union to diversify its gas sources.
therefore, at a time when member states' dependence on imported energy sources is only increasing, it is necessary to make it possible to obtain energy from sources within member states by setting clear environmental requirements.
− tough environmental legislation on shale gas exploration and exploitation.
it could be an opportunity for security of energy supply but there is a need to have the full facts to assess if the benefits outweigh the costs and downsides.
− the main focus of the committee on petitions’ work during 2011 has been on the environment and fundamental rights/justice.
the baltic cod is a species of european importance whose stocks are rapidly declining, and it is therefore essential to work towards the development of multiannual plans to ensure a sustainable fisheries policy and guarantee long-term stability for european fishermen.
− in defence of latvia's interests, i did not support the motion for a resolution on the climate change conference in doha, qatar.
this offer is not acceptable because it will significantly increase the cost of meeting latvia's targets, which it is doing very well, the data show that latvia has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 55% compared to 1990. a ban on the transfer of emission units would require additional purchases on the market for these units and would only increase budgetary expenditure at a time when countries are on a path to budgetary balance.
global greenhouse gas emission reduction targets are welcome, but they need to be achieved in a predictable way without creating additional burdens on national budgets.
− the ep resolution on the forthcoming climate change conference in doha (cop18) ‘stresses that the carry-over of assigned amount units (aaus) to the second commitment period would undermine the integrity of the kyoto protocol’ and ‘points out that if member states are allowed to transfer aaus, the kyoto protocol will have no real effect on climate mitigation’.
it is not acceptable that the efforts by these countries to reduce co2 emissions under the current kyoto protocol are disregarded, as they have contributed to the average decrease in the eu27’s co2 emissions and have helped the eu to lead the way in combating climate change.
− this report calls for a stronger multilateral cooperation and improved global governance on climate security where the eu plays an enhanced role.
it urges the ec to mainstream the potential effects of climate change on security into the most important strategies and policy documents.
a working structure between council, commission and eeas should be established to consider the entire range of issues related to climate change.
− thanks to the efforts made during the negotiation by knut fleckenstein, the directive will enlarge the agency’s powers to prevent and tackle environmental disasters such as oil spills, enable it to contribute to combating maritime piracy and give it a stronger role in improving training for seafarers.
transportation shall be equipped with automatic climate control systems where possible.