while fiscal discipline is a necessary part of a stable and sustainable economy, it cannot alone bring about a return to growth.
we need a long-term action plan which will improve the entire supply chain and will focus on the ethical, economic, environmental, social, nutritional and health implications of food wastage in europe and worldwide.
action needs to be taken at both national and european level to develop policies which will reduce waste while also improving food-production practices in developing countries.
firstly, leds are energy savers reducing the cost of energy.
in order to achieve a competitive and socially sustainable single market framework the union cannot afford to keep putting off the creation of a europe-wide collective redress mechanism for consumers and citizens.
we have studied with interest some proposals to link joint issuance... (interjection from mr bloom: ‘three minutes, we’re now getting up to six – let’s do our job, mr president.’) ...explicitly to fiscal coordination by member states and to limit the time frame of joint issuance, at least initially, to the time needed to redress member states’ government accounts to sustainable levels.
much energy and time was lost by our eu institutions in devising ways to prevent a sovereign debt crisis from occurring again, rather than addressing the more immediate present and clear danger by a proper crisis resolution mechanism.
i also voted in favour of the rest of the clauses of this report because in a time of fiscal consolidation, this report addresses sustainable job creation through investment, improving the quality of employment, investing in education and training and fighting poverty and social exclusion, as well as labour market participation.
secondly, stability bonds could support sustainable and responsible budgetary practices by including requirements for budgetary discipline.
− accepting the international cocoa agreement is a positive step towards providing more fair and sustainable global trade in cocoa.
therefore, while accepting a number of the paragraphs in the bodu report on the corporate governance framework, such as the distinction between unitary and dualistic company systems, and mentioning of shareholder participation, i believe that the report should have addressed more fair and sustainable governance measures which attempt to improve europe’s corporate culture, such as worker participation and gender balance.
lately we have been asking our citizens to make a lot of sacrifices to ensure that our economies survive the current climate, but we do have the internal market, which is the best way of delivering growth and the economic prosperity that our citizens expect of us.
in the current economic crisis, member states should ensure proper and timely implementation and transposition of european directives, especially legislation linked to the single market, which is instrumental in moving europe towards sustainable growth and job creation.
because macro-regional strategies are to the mutual benefit of all parties implicated and the mediterranean would profit greatly from such a scheme, in regards to the economy as well as social and environmental issues, i have voted in favour of this resolution.
− the protection of intellectual property rights is essential for innovation and sustainable economic growth.
− europe's water resources are endangered by unsustainable practices including population growth, pollution and overconsumption.
this can be achieved partially through fostering entrepreneurship, which requires reforming the regulatory environment to increase the competitiveness of european businesses and their ability to create jobs.
a modern and scientific approach is needed, one which promotes animal health and sustainable development.
– i strongly believe that, in the current economic climate where resources are already limited, the eu budget is one of the strongest instruments we have for investment and solidarity.
europe needs a policy for growth and employment and i strongly believe that the single market is key to sustainable recovery.
this funding through the proposed connecting europe facility will be vital to developing sustainable infrastructures to deliver better internet with high-quality content for children, while boosting growth and innovation.