but there is still a lot to be done, because we all know that the climate has actually done very little to improve it.
that's still a big climate problem, and we don't have to wait until 2020 to do it.
the european parliament, the committee on the environment, decided to do so in december.
we have to do it for the climate.
and we have to look at recovering the highest-quality, highest-feasible, rather than the easiest, because we all know that it's being dumped very quickly across the border, and that's bad for the environment, and we're not even getting what we want out of it.
can the commission clarify how much room the legislation currently provides specifically for making arrangements to recover the costs of sustainability initiatives?
on behalf of the s&d group, thank you, commissioner, for your positive words and for agreeing with us that there is an absolute need to pay attention to a good waste policy.
it turns out that waste is a problem that really needs to be taken seriously, a problem that is pressing on a lot of citizens.
waste needs to be turned from a problem into an opportunity.
we are very clear that there must be a plan, that there must be a hierarchy and how to deal with waste.
in times of crisis it is difficult to find the people, the resources and the ideas to manage waste properly.
transparency on what happens to waste: is it toxic, what happens to it, where does it go, and is it done legally?
let us, for the sake of peace, make the most modern regions out of those regions which are still in trouble in europe today and deal with waste in a completely new and creative way, because in the future we really will need every single plastic bag.
the problems are still great, but confidence seems to be returning step by step and we must be ambitious to continue on this path to promote sustainable economic growth.
tanks and fighter jets have been deployed; water, energy, food and medicine supplies have been cut off; a humanitarian crisis is looming.
- the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0176/97).
could that energy not be better spent punishing a minister who is a disgrace to christian democracy and to the community of values that europe claims to be?
family reunification is thus one of the main drivers behind this ongoing mass immigration, with problems such as cultural alienation, increasing ecological footprint and threatening the welfare state.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0414/97-97/0161 (cns)) that's a good thing.
we are therefore going to meet an important basic condition for getting back on the road to economic growth and also for creating a confidence-building investment climate.
in other words, apart from sustainable fisheries – and i think we have to have a deal on this, a commitment – we can look to future icelandic eu membership soon and indeed, together with the authorities and the population of iceland, we have to convince the population that the route to europe is the best one for such an old and democratic country in such a modern environment.
however, i support the agreement on biodiversity from the un meeting held in nagoya in october 2010, which stated that all subsidies that threaten fish stocks should be abolished.
i can support short-term proposals to ensure that austerity policies are eased in countries that are very badly affected, but only when this does not contribute to overfishing or negative environmental impacts.
the eu stands ready to help to ensure more equal benefit from wealth and more equal distribution and good governance and to prevent and end the terrorism in a sustainable way.
oil seems to bring nothing but problems, like environmental pollution, kidnapping of foreigners, profits flowing to richer countries.
80 to 95% less greenhouse gases.
that's good for the environment, good for public health, good for our economy.
it provides the certainty to be able to invest in the low-carbon economy in a truly responsible way.
there's no path to a low-carbon economy without pain.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report, which is a balanced report on the future of our climate agenda and, in particular, on the future of the european economy.
the christian democrats in this chamber say that we may have to slow down a little, but i would point out that we are doing this ultimately because of the climate, and the climate is not negotiable.
if we do not act now, we will be hit by climate change and then our economy will be hit really hard.
we must now tackle the emissions trading system, we must now set targets for 2030. we must now focus on energy conservation.
because unlike oil, we are talking about a renewable resource that we can use as often as we want.
the negotiations should start as soon as possible so that serbia can start working even harder on sustainable and profound reform, starting with chapters 23 and 24. we expect serbia to remedy the huge flaws in its review of the judiciary.
turkey has enormous potential for economic growth and it has a strategic role as a corridor for the european union’s energy supply.
the climate of fear and mistrust in institutions in turkey is undermining its potential to be a leader in a changing world and we urge the turkish government to take its responsibilities.
mr president, why is it that i hardly ever read reports these days that do not mention climate change?
it's climate change before and climate change after.
we always want to include environmental costs in the pricing until it becomes concrete.
if so, please stop using that environmental rhetoric which is apparently only for the bühne.
so let us use the facts, this is a very modest proposal and let us turn the rhetoric of environmental costs into action for once.
the principle of reforming the taxation of energy products and electricity on the basis of co2 emissions and energy content is positive.
however, higher energy taxes should be compensated in other areas, for example by lower taxes on labour.
in order to make a successful revision of the energy tax, compensation with other taxes at national level is necessary.
− mr president, on behalf of the commission and in particular of my colleague connie hedegaard, who unfortunately cannot be here today, i very much welcome the report on women and climate change.
this is a good opportunity to discuss how the eu can help women put their stamp on future climate policy.
climate change is already a fact of life for many on our planet, especially in the developing world.
as you know, climate-change effects hit the most vulnerable the hardest.
as the report rightly says, even though climate change is gender-neutral, its effects are gender-differentiated.
when addressing climate change, the eu looks at how consumption and lifestyle patterns have an impact on our environment.
by supporting sustainable, green, low-emission development, we are helping to mitigate the effects of climate change and to stimulate economic development, which will make the poor and vulnerable – predominantly women and children – the principal beneficiaries.
as an example, i would like to mention the sustainable energy for all summit this week in brussels, where two panels were dedicated to access to sustainable energy for women.
better access to modern sustainable energy – to cooking stoves, for example – will reduce the use of traditional biomass, which will in turn reduce deforestation.
the eu also aims to mainstream climate-change adaptation into eu policies including those on migration and disaster risk reduction.
it is all about being forward-looking in order to minimise the inevitable adverse impacts of climate change and gender inequality.
women are under-represented in national decision-making and in international climate negotiations.
in the recent communication on a renewed eu-pacific development partnership it is stated clearly that gender inequalities may hamper countries’ capacity to address climate change impacts.
pacific leaders acknowledge the need to take women’s experience, knowledge and priorities into account more effectively if they are to address the impact of climate change successfully and be able to achieve sustainable development.
in line with the goal of raising women’s representation to the 40% level advocated in this report, women have chaired the last three conferences of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), and the durban conference of the parties adopted decisions explicitly referring to the need to ensure gender balance in the adaptation committee and the standing committee on climate finance.
the danish presidency decision to present the set of indicators on women and climate change to the council illustrates the fact that this critical area is high on the agenda.
we will need funding and capacity-building to enhance women’s knowledge of climate change and how to adapt their daily lives.
it is our responsibility to give the concerns of women and the most vulnerable a place in national and international climate policy.
the report before us is a very useful contribution in advocating climate equity: i commend it and i applaud the rapporteur and the european parliament for this initiative.
i would like to conclude on this positive note: i truly believe that climate action can contribute to development in the world’s poorest regions and improve the living conditions of many men and women in the developing world.
the commission will continue to mainstream gender issues into policy-making, including the fight against climate change and adaptation to the adverse effects of climate change.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
as the rapporteur and the commissioner have already said, climate change is particularly hard on women.
ironically, women are among the least climate-impacted population groups, and the share of women in decision-making in new climate strategies is actually far too low.
but they are the most experienced experts and i think that they can make a good contribution to a better climate policy.
there is still far too little knowledge about gender equality and climate change, but it is clear that more equality is better for the climate and a better climate contributes to more gender equality.
that needs to change, and i would say: a smart girl is prepared for climate change!
according to the accountants of teeb, the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity, we lose 3% of our gross national product every year because of biodiversity loss.
because let us be honest, we were also here ten years ago when we adopted the previous biodiversity strategy.
it is also of course very important that we integrate these environmental concerns into the other policy areas.
can anyone suggest a better way to halt the loss of biodiversity than simply stopping these activities that destroy nature?
it is ridiculous that mr gerbrandy is trying to create a european environmental police force, one that will come as a big brother to check whether we are actually complying with the costly, useless and harmful environmental rules of brussels.
i also read that the eu must indoctrinate schoolchildren and students with the new biodiversity doctrine, that good agricultural land must be given up to ecosystems and that fisheries are being further hampered, while we do not even know what the state of fish stocks is.
mr gerbrandy wants the eu development cooperation commission to introduce the concept of biodiversity sustainability.
and of course, mr potočnik, we are not going to flood good agricultural land in the netherlands, especially not in zeeland, because that would be a huge destruction of biodiversity.
there are still people in this house who think that biodiversity is just a "protect areas" thing.
for those people who believe that, or still believe that, it's very important to know that biodiversity is the core of our food, the core of clean water.
people who only shout that we should not protect areas, they still have not understood what the essence of biodiversity is, so mr hartong, do your homework a little better!
various studies show that the biodiversity we destroy costs 3% of our gross national product every year.
that is the value of biodiversity and that is what we have to talk about.
that is why we wholeheartedly support the commissioner with his biodiversity agenda for 2020, but of course there is a big problem if we only talk about targets for 2020. we need to talk about policy now!
i therefore count on all those who are saying today how important biodiversity is in the real reform of our agricultural policy and our fisheries policy, so that biodiversity does not remain in words but is actually acted upon.
i would like to ask my esteemed colleague mr eickhout the following, because he talks a lot about biodiversity, the preservation of species, etc.
i think that is a very good question, because i have just heard mr hartong and i have heard him say all kinds of nonsense about biodiversity.
i am happy to say, mr president, that we are consistent as green leftists, so yes, we will sign that letter, because we consider this, like biodiversity, to be an important issue.
so please be consistent, on your side, and not just talk about whales, but talk about real biodiversity.
- i would like to thank my colleagues in particular for the very broad support for our report on biodiversity.
in addition to the broad support for the report, i think it is also important that in this debate we have expressed very strong political support for greater protection of biodiversity.
on behalf of the alde group the commissioner was just referring to the informal environment council held in denmark this week, and i would like to start by quoting from the press release: "there is no other way out of the economic crisis than through a green economy, which will strengthen the development of new and greener technologies, resource reductions, and the protection of our nature and the biodiversity.
a green transition will create millions of jobs and make europe more sustainable and competitive".
we have just discussed this in the debate on biodiversity and next month we will be discussing resource efficiency in the plenary.
i believe that the seventh environment action programme should set out the priorities for 2020 with the associated objectives, indicators and actions.
the informal environment council has already started to do so.
the seventh environment action programme must be an overarching framework that streamlines all the objectives and actions in eu policies, because only in this way will we preserve nature for our children and our economy.
finally, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr leinen, for his excellent work and i would like to call on the commission to really speed up the new proposal in order not to widen the gap between the sixth and seventh environmental action programmes.
i would like to thank mr leinen for his report on the seventh environmental action programme and indeed we greens also feel that we need a seventh environmental action programme, first of all mr gerbrandy, to set out the vision for 2020, but also for 2050, because what kind of economy do we want to live in as europe?
but green economy also means that we have to start thinking about what our energy system will look like in the future.
that means that we need more than just a low-carbon target for 2030. we must also set targets for energy saving and renewable energy.
i also thank you, commissioner, for your attention to this and your preparations for a seventh environmental action programme.
mr leinen is quite right when he says that it is not just about the environment, but above all about all the sectors of the economy, about transport, about health care, that it is about economic policy in general.
the environment is economic policy, now and especially in the future.
but we have been too enthusiastic about biomass, and as a result, a lot of it is now going into the furnace, whereas it could be used for more than just energy.
sustainable use.
for example, according to the report, 'climate change is not gender neutral'.
moreover, women 'do not have the same impact on the environment as men' and the report advocates 'climate justice'.
the climate hysteria and feminism are all but wiped out by the report.
women and carbon emissions?
− although i agree with the essence and majority of the text of the leinen report ‘review of the 6th environment action programme and the setting of priorities for the 7th environment action programme’, i strongly believe that competences in tax matters should remain with the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
i would like to ask the president, ladies and gentlemen, who among you knows the executive director of the european environment agency, professor mcglade, personally?
this is despite the fact that year after year the european environment agency is seen as an example of how an agency should be run, that year after year the european court of auditors says that everything is right about the european environment agency, and that the environment agency itself has refuted all the allegations or has shown that they are simply not true.
the absence of any grounds for postponing discharge from the environment agency makes me wonder if there is a hidden agenda here.
i hope that is not the case and i therefore urge the ppe, in particular, not to chase after ghosts but simply to give the european environment agency the discharge to which it is entitled.
the environment agency in particular is proving to be a very bad place.
the increasingly poor treatment of prisoners and a growing anti-gay climate, an anti-gay climate that now threatens to be even enshrined in law.
the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment and sustainable development.
i advocate a different growth agenda, one that will increase opportunities for business: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as reducing corporate taxation, favourable depreciation on investments, good and accessible education in top sectors and a higher retirement age.
sound public finances and timely implementation of structural reforms are necessary conditions for sustainable economic growth.
it contributes to a climate of hatred, intolerance and violence.
in the forthcoming dutch elections on 12 september, the dutch people will vote en masse against europe, against the esm, against european taxes, against eurobonds and against all this waste of money.
it would of course be better if no catches at all were allowed for this over-fished species, but i felt this is at least a step towards better fishing practices and sustainability.
i support the idea of a financial transaction tax as a way of making financial institutions pay for the economic crisis, for example through a tobin tax, the proceeds of which are used to support development and to combat climate change.
that is not only the content of the report, it is also the structure of the report, in which we have identified six top priorities in the committee on the environment.
it should be easier to spread waste containing valuable raw materials across the border.
it's now focused on energy, but we also need to make sure that the raw materials that are in the products are more easily recoverable, and that starts with the design.
mr president, as i have worked on this subject for some time, i have noticed that this is not primarily an environmental agenda.
better labelling, clearer and not five different labels: one for fair trade and the other for energy efficiency.
from abstract to concrete: europe's ecological footprint now covers ten football fields, and soon, with all the people there in 2050, there will only be one football field available for all the things we need - our energy, food and materials.
and not just for the environment, but for the economy, indeed.
by shifting the burden of labour to the raw materials, by looking at whether we are fixing tax amounts correctly, by implementing existing regulations, for example the waste directive.
how are we going to look at the waste sector, for example?
mr. chairman, i have no idea what direction mr. gerbrandy is trying to take this whole thing, but one thing is clear: it's going to make his environmental friends money.
he also spoke of a landfill tax, a waste hierarchy and a european external waste policy, including the waste acquis.
will baroness ashton be supervising our waste disposal in the member states herself?
mr gerbrandy is talking about a strict end-of-waste criterion.
i'm going to move the report now to waste recycling and add it to this cylindrical archive.
he blames me for environmental goals.
is that an environmental agenda to deal with that more efficiently, or is that an economic agenda?
he was talking only about energy.
so, is the message from the eu ‘never mind human rights – energy is what it’s all about’?
if we continue to let energy interests take democracy and human rights hostage, the situation in azerbaijan will never improve.
let us be honest: in the long term, the eu also secures its energy interests much better by fighting for a stable democracy in azerbaijan than by supporting the current regime of president aliyev.
it is a one-to-one, with this package, but also with the crucial building blocks aimed at sustainable growth and jobs.
although i am in favour of cooperation with third countries and especially developing countries on the area of r&d cooperation and data-sharing on know-how transfer on clean and renewable energy sources as stated in §78, and although i am in general in favour of an eu energy policy based on clean and renewable energy sources without dependence on fossil fuels and nuclear energy, i cannot agree on any further spending of funds on iter or any other fusion research, further reliance and investment in nuclear energy and i definitely do not agree with energy exploration in the arctic region.
the international crisis group made a good suggestion: the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
i object to the weakening of the involvement of the international monetary fund in the determination of the sustainability of public debt in this report.
in the absence of such a policy, eu measures will not be able to provide a sustainable stimulus to growth.
finally, the fourth element i want to bring up is the importance of ecosystem services.
getting by on a day-by-day basis is not the same as a sustainable two-state solution, which moves further away with every settlement built.
secondly – and i am still not certain whether this is really the case – the eu might have realised too late that the rest of the world considered rio+20 a social summit instead of a sustainability summit.
even the countries that were deliberately trying to get rid of all ambitions in the final outcome were, at the same time, working on the ground, with organisations like the united nations environment programme, to green their own economies.
this is the type of approach that we need, and i think that, at the multilateral level, the eu can also play a crucial role in pursuit of the sustainable development goals.
the rio summit aimed to reach concrete agreements and guidelines on sustainable and social development and poverty reduction.
in the run-up to the summit, parliament stressed the need for measures to increase the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency worldwide, stressing that this does not include nuclear energy, which is not a sustainable source.
when will we finally address gender equality in the context of sustainable development?
and now, almost 40 years later, we have to conclude that sustainability, that environment, that social rights actually still have insufficient place in our global economic system.
of course, steps have been taken, as the commissioner has already said, for example in the area of the marine environment.
and, ladies and gentlemen, some of you may not like to hear this, but the business community also has a role to play in this, for example in developing and drawing up ambitious sustainability criteria.
international, because for example our debate on whether we should go from 20% to 30% co2 emissions in europe, that difference is equivalent to 1.7 days of emissions in china.
sea water levels are rising and my country and mr helmer's country have to protect themselves against the north sea, but i am afraid that mr helmer's party will only recognize climate change by the time that more than one million people in the london area have wet feet.
natural resources are mainly used for industry, energy and meat production.
this is a good day for europe: we are finally tackling sulphur pollution again.
we all know that this pollution has a major impact on our air quality and also on our water quality and it is very important that we do something about it.
it is also not true that there will now be a lot of transportation by trucks because of this legislation, because trucks already have far higher standards for lowering sulphur emissions.
many people have said today that it is incredibly good that we are finally taking steps to save energy.
it is insane that europe is lagging behind in terms of energy saving, in terms of using less energy, the cheapest, easiest and best option of the climate package that europe has adopted.
the second point is the emissions trading system.
there's an incredible amount of air in the emissions trading system, there's a lot of surplus in it, and it's only going to get more.
when will the commission take concrete action to remove air from the emissions system so that we can continue to commit ourselves to that part of europe's climate policy?
article 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union explicitly limits what brussels can do in the field of energy.
the article says that brussels cannot interfere with the operation, choice or structure of the energy supply in a member state, whether it is efficient or not.
we can at least use our energy more efficiently by talking only about what we are talking about.
one of the things that is important is sustainable innovation, also in fisheries.
unfortunately, sustainable innovation in fisheries cannot always take place.
there is a temporary exception, but i am calling on the commissioner, too, to make room in the new fisheries policy for this new, innovative and sustainable fishing technique.
they should probably also be thinking about having a real minister for the economy in europe, so that we complete the work on financial stability with a commitment to sustainable growth and also to the economic and social dimension.
sustainable growth!
the growth fuelled by excessive debt is not sustainable.
the growth fuelled by irresponsible private credit is not sustainable, as we have seen.
we have to return to conditions for growth that is sustainable.
in particular, in the case of countries under financial assistance, namely greece, ireland and portugal, one must assess the consequences on that sustainability of a possible prolongation of an adjustment period.
growth and jobs, but i repeat, sustainable growth for sustainable jobs.
the loss of competitiveness, the loss of debt sustainability, has been so great that it takes much longer to rectify the situation.
the accelerated raising of the retirement age to 67 and the limitation of the mortgage interest deduction are urgently needed to keep public finances sustainable in the long term.
there is also a mutual dependence between the european union and russia, especially in the field of trade and energy.
the council and the commission would therefore do well to invest time and energy in patiently establishing relations with these belarusian elites at this time.
we looked at the sustainability tests: is a scooter as clean after five years as it was after the first?
a second point, mr president, concerns the emission requirements, and in particular euro 5 in 2016. the commission will investigate this and the intention is that we will look not only at pollution but also at costs and, again, at lead time.
there will be more safety, a better environment, more clarity for producers and consumers, less costs, especially administrative burdens, and above all less regulation.
we are talking about the future of our energy supply and it is very necessary that we create an internal energy market, with a ring of electricity and gas, so that we are less dependent on foreign states.
we are also talking about alternative forms of energy and i think we need a strict legal framework to guarantee safe use of new forms of energy, without harming man or nature.
i believe that the techniques currently used which are clearly harmful to man or the environment should be improved, but we should certainly not exclude anything.
we have the eu budget for the future, for the real challenges of the eu, and one of the main challenges is the scarcity of raw materials, energy, food, materials.
for innovation, for energy infrastructure, for agriculture, for a structural fund, where investments are made in energy saving, in renewable energy.
president, thank you to commissioner hedegaard and the cypriot president for the fine words again on climate change and the seriousness of the matter.
in this chamber, in the european parliament, there is again a great deal of concern about the seriousness of climate change.
they're already feeling the effects of climate change.
otherwise, it will be empty words and it will not help the climate.
the five reports and the debate tonight show that this is also the case, with major economic and ecological interests.
conservation is important for the attractiveness of coastal zones and for the balance of these zones, including ecological balance.
there are no real negotiations anymore, because russia is really only interested in visa facilitation and good agreements that are beneficial for russia in the energy field.
democracy is much more than ‘one man, one vote’, and relying on checks on power via the streets is not sustainable.
– madam president, concerning albania, one of our greatest worries is always the political climate, the lack of even the willingness to cooperate between the different main parties.
we create conditions that enable businesses and consumers to conduct their business and make purchases in a familiar environment.
we are negotiating with india on energy and our trade relations.