in the 'green europe' area, denmark is committed to sustainable economic growth on the one hand, and to continuing to push for eu climate packages on the other.
but seeing the energy your government is putting into it, i'm sure it will be successful.
to do this, he taxed big capital: banks, telecommunications companies, energy companies, hypermarkets.
i think after durban we can be sure of one thing - we can be sure that our thinking about reducing emissions is isolated in the world.
i think that instead of banging our heads against the wall, we should be reviewing our climate policy so that its costs are distributed more equitably.
the entry of the next phase of the emissions trading system in 2013, for example in poland, will mean even more pressure to move paper, glass and cement production outside the eu.
in the context of the crisis, climate policy is becoming a thorn in the side of european industry, which will eventually move to countries that are our direct competitors.
the european union, by pursuing such a radical climate policy, alone, without a global agreement, is thus taking responsibility for the economic slowdown.
climate policy is only rational if it is seen in a global perspective.
greenhouse gases know no bounds, so if it is the fact that at durban canada is already completely withdrawing from the kyoto agreement, if it is the fact that the other countries which are major emitters, such as china, are not deciding on significant emission reductions together with europe, it means that our policy is a donksoteria, that our policy is not effective, that even if we manage to reduce these limits, as the commissioner and the commission propose, it will not bring the intended effect on global climate change.
and energy bills will go up by 30-40% from 2013. this could really mean a crisis both in the european union and in relation to the european union.
ladies and gentlemen, before the durban summit, many questions were asked - what will be the position of the european union, is there a chance that by 2020 the paths of action of all countries will go in the same direction and will it be possible to work out a compromise, what about the possibility of selling co2 emissions after 2012 from the unused limits set in the kyoto protocol?
at the conference, poland was awarded the 'fish of the day' for its continued failure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
those who seek and implement ways to reduce emissions have been reprimanded in a way that is completely incomprehensible.
in addition, the largest developing countries should be adequately included in this process, in line with the conclusions of the european council of october 2009. europe currently emits only 11% of its total co2 emissions into the atmosphere and is fully complying with its emission reduction commitments under the protocol.
only by acting together can we help to combat climate change.
this scenario would result in only a negligible part of the emissions being covered by the transitional arrangement.
the eu's ability to effectively lead the world in the fight against climate change will therefore depend to a large extent on its ability to persuade large emitters to join the fight against climate change in a legally binding way.
solidarity and a fair sharing of reduction commitments should be the pillars of the further development of climate policy in the eu.
unfortunately, we had different opinions on this, but most of us were working towards one goal: how to reduce the amount of waste in our electronics and electrical equipment.
this document is very important at this time because we are talking about how we want to save our resources while also taking advantage of the possibilities of waste, waste from electrical and electronic equipment.
here's a clue: we can do this by saying that we have these raw materials in waste and that waste should not end up in landfills.
the new rules, which emphasise separate collection of waste, will facilitate its disposal, the recycling of raw materials and the reuse of equipment.
the changes to be introduced will contribute to improving environmental protection and human health.
particular attention must be paid to small family farms and farms located in areas with poor management conditions, especially in mountainous or remote areas, which suffer particularly badly because of the higher costs of production, energy for transport and fieldwork.
as we know, the situation is affected by rising prices of raw materials, energy, fertilisers and other means of production.
i would like to stress the importance of energy, which according to eurostat has increased in cost by about 60% over the last decade, including electricity, gas and fuel.
building biogas plants, wind, solar or geothermal infrastructure is undoubtedly a big expense, but in the long term it is certainly cost-effective, increases revenue and has a positive impact on the protection of the environment.
energy saving and energy efficiency practices must be disseminated and implemented on each farm, at local level, on an individual initiative or through cooperation between several neighbouring farmers.
the problem of food waste is very important and it is good that the european parliament is dealing with it, especially in the context of dramatic food forecasts for the next decades and the great increase in food demand.
the problem of waste is closely related to what we discussed a few minutes ago, the concentration of trade, with most of the food trade being taken over by the big retail chains.
this obviously leads to increased food waste, for example, because more food is usually bought in supermarkets than in a small store near your home.
and as we think about food waste, let's also think about land waste.
the european commission has published a report on the use of recycled electrical and electronic equipment in the european union, which is intended to be used for the recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
− food waste is an example of an inefficient use of resources, with negative consequences for economic efficiency and the environment.
moreover, in a world where about one sixth of the population is hungry, food waste is a huge ethical problem.
as a union of states that respects and promotes fundamental human rights, including food security, we should take decisive steps to reduce food waste.
- the problem of food waste is becoming more serious.
according to the european commission, the annual production of food waste in the 27 member states is over 89 million tonnes, or about 179 kg per person.
food waste itself has consequences not only in ethical, economic, social and nutritional terms, but also in health and environmental terms, as food waste contributes to global warming.
in agriculture, food waste occurs both in the production and storage of agricultural products.
the report by the international atomic energy agency confirms that iran has the knowledge and the desire to develop nuclear weapons.
we can begin to talk about renewed imports of iranian resources only when iran applies the united nations resolution and the suggestions of the international atomic energy agency.
it is not we, but the international atomic energy agency, that has serious concerns about the possible military aspects of iran's nuclear programme.
it is not us, but iran that continues to fail to meet its obligations under relevant un security council resolutions, including the most recent, 1929, and to comply with the requirements of the board of governors of the international atomic energy agency.
today, these double standards can apply to energy, for example, because it is said that gazprom can obtain a partial waiver from the rules of the third energy package.
we should not be sending a signal today that we are ready for double standards, because then the whole third energy package is meaningless.
the report indicates several areas, in particular the number of votes held in the un security council, on libya, on syria, on the status of the eu in the un general assembly and others, like recently in durban on climate change, which show that when the foreign policy objectives of the brics converge they are ready to concert efforts and act jointly.
i mean, for example, plans to reduce co2 emissions.
they pose a safety risk to both health and the environment.
this also means that there are no savings from smart and efficient waste management and no opportunities to recover valuable missing resources.
much remains to be done to raise awareness among citizens about the benefits of responsible waste management.
it is important to coordinate waste management at regional and local level more closely and to make it easy to access and transparent for citizens not only how waste should be segregated but also what happens to it afterwards.
the modernisation of waste management systems will require significant investments in many countries.
recognising the urgent need for responsible waste management, the european union has created a whole system of secondary legislation, imposing on member states a series of obligations relating to the storage, segregation and recycling of waste.
the union is working towards a situation where waste is no longer a threat to the environment but a resource that is used efficiently.
it is reflected in the number of petitions submitted to the commission - 114 - which draw attention to the various aspects of waste management that are not in line with eu law.
rapid and dynamic economic growth is inevitably linked to environmental risks.
the european union, and in particular the european parliament, must therefore set environmental standards that are in line with changing economic realities.
a major step forward in this regard was the implementation by member states of the waste management directive, which aimed to improve and raise the standard of waste management, treatment and disposal.
this was necessary because of the huge amount of more than 2 million tonnes of waste produced annually within the union.
i supported this report because of the great need for diversification of energy sources in europe.
until recently, the panacea for any energy shortage was the construction of the northern gas pipeline from russia to germany.
this shows how important it is to look for new sources of energy in the european union in the context of both the security of the european union and the safeguarding of all kinds of activities.
we have a chance to build a new platform for international foreign policy, based on mutual trust and shared values, that will facilitate cooperation on trade and economic issues, and in more effective ways to address global issues such as climate change, global peace and security, and sustainable development.
only full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and the presentation of irrefutable evidence of the peaceful nature of the activities carried out can prevent a regional arms race and remove the threat to world peace and security.
− the increasing amount of waste is a result of modern lifestyles and affects us all from large industrial plants to individual households.
waste is hazardous to human and animal health and to the ecosystem of our planet.
this is an equally important problem for rural areas, where many types of waste are generated, and other types of waste, such as electrical waste and, particularly dangerous, asbestos, are sometimes placed alongside municipal, biodegradable waste.
in these areas, appropriate systems for the regular collection of such waste are necessary and should be accompanied by practical information campaigns.
the report shows that the level of waste management policies varies considerably between member states.
in countries such as austria and denmark, waste management is very high, while in others, mainly in the new member states, there is still a lack of appropriate legal regulations and administrative procedures.
the implementation of a uniform waste management policy is therefore necessary.
access to energy can indeed have a great impact on development.
without universal access to energy, genuine, sustainable and socially inclusive development will be impossible.
it is also very important that energy projects in developing countries are built on business models.
without ensuring the sustainability of projects, they will not achieve their objectives.
another important aspect is to focus on modern projects that use renewable energy sources, are tailored to local needs and create local growth potential.
but we must be aware of the need for new regulations in the services market, as well as in the energy and food markets.
as a local government official, i would like to focus on regional development, environmental protection and energy policy.
the common fisheries policy has a huge impact on the environmental fishing community as a public good.
the implementation of the common fisheries policy to date has been a devastating failure, not only in terms of the environment, where the state of stocks is not at the right level, but also in terms of the protection of the industry and the fishing environment, which are in a very difficult situation.
of course, this does not prevent us from thinking about the question of food waste and nutrition, even though the programme of aid to the poorest will be part of social policy.
i therefore hope that more and more countries will join the position i represent, bearing in mind the situation of farmers and the desire to ensure that they are guaranteed a relatively stable environment.
the common fisheries policy is of great importance for the environment, the recovery of resources and the fishing industry.
the effect of sustainable development is that it is not competitive with products from countries outside the european union.
products from morocco do not meet many european standards in the fields of food safety, sanitation or environmental protection.
we need closer coordination of economic policies, with a particular focus on key areas for action, to unlock europe's potential for sustainable growth.
it is particularly important to counter the ruthless exploitation of so-called waste contracts, which contribute to the gradual increase of social exclusion.
it should therefore be underlined that equality between women and men is a matter of great importance for the sustainable achievement of economic growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion.
in other words, an environment should be created that is conducive to learning and to the mobility of students.
member states, with the support of the european commission under the fisheries fund, must pursue a sustainable policy not only in the context of the natural environment but also in the context of the fisheries environment.
the commission proposal does not, however, cover regulation (ec) no 861/2006 on the financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy, which is essential for the sustainable development of the sector.
the european fisheries fund will contribute to improving the availability and sustainable use of financial resources allocated to this sector and to ensuring better design of these resources.
restoring confidence and creating an investor-friendly environment by removing administrative barriers and creating an appropriate legal framework will contribute to further economic growth, and thus to reducing unemployment and improving the welfare of society.
today, there is no doubt in this room that the elections in russia were not real elections, that the opposition in russia is persecuted, not only at the level of the vote counting procedure itself, although practically every day brings new facts about the fact that the vote counting was not fair in the last presidential election, but democracy is more than just the technical process of voting and counting votes, it is also the whole environment, it is also freedom of the media, freedom of political parties, freedom of speech.
the next item is the report by chris davies, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 (2011/2095 (ini)) (a7-0033/2012).
regardless of political preferences, we all agree that protecting the environment is a duty of mankind.
reducing carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere.
my country, poland, has made a huge effort to modernize its post-communist, coal-based economy, including a massive reduction in co2 emissions.
energy costs limit the scope for development in other areas.
the report proposes to significantly tighten the eu's climate policy, on the one hand by raising the reduction targets to 80% by 2050 and on the other by reducing the number of allowances on the market by extinguishing them before the entry into force of the third phase of the ets.
we all agreed in durban that international negotiations would continue until 2015. there is no reason to tighten climate policy in the european union today without an international agreement.
the cost of tightening climate policy in poland is €5.4 billion a year, that's more than half of all corporate profit, all industrial profit before tax, so legislative proposals in this area - despite the lack of a council conclusion - will be extremely disloyal not only to central europe, but also to european industry.
the cancun and durban summits showed that the european union has no supporters to back the commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 25% by 2020. nevertheless, the report has been amended to include such entries contrary to the world view.
the report excludes all coal-based energy, leaving no room for research and innovation in this area, despite the fact that coal is the only natural resource available in europe for energy.
today we must answer the question of what energy sources europe should have today and tomorrow: coal forbidden; nuclear energy banned; gas and oil from outside europe; biomass in small quantities or at the cost of changing the use of agricultural land, giving up crops for food; wind and solar energy without the possibility of storing it in batteries because such technologies do not yet exist; shale gas is no longer a public enemy 1. what's next, europe?
i'm not against a low-carbon economy based on modern technology, but i am against the lack of common sense and the desire to see the king naked.
according to a report in the world energy outlook, by 2050, more than 50% of the world's energy will still be produced from coal.
the eu's own carbon reduction policy, without energy alliances with the world's largest coal users, is therefore doomed to failure.
we cannot afford to see the carbon leakage that is happening at an alarming rate, by closing down the mills, the factories and moving this production to the far east.
as the eu is the biggest advocate of low-carbon technologies by 2050, let it allocate additional funds to research related to the use of the most efficient energy source, the sun, on ways of transporting solar energy from areas beyond the earth's atmosphere, rather than focusing on the least efficient programme with a significantly higher cost of so-called renewable energy sources.
i'm calling for sustainable development, especially in the area of emissions reduction, so that the poor don't have to pay the rich for their emissions.
the report and the communiqué are like the rambling of a patient with a high fever, higher than the proverbial two degrees of global warming.
so i ask: 1. why does the commission want to save the climate at the expense of poland's economy and the deterioration of the social situation of its inhabitants?
the commission's uncritical belief in the politicization of the climate doctrine should be examined.
or is it not a matter of belief, but a cynical play on the climate?
there is a contradiction in the title of the report by mr chris davies which, in my view, has affected the whole project competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 the title is misleading, but it could easily be corrected.
i am sure that no one is able to prove today that by 2050 it will be possible to reconcile these two values that are so close to us: competitiveness and low emissions.
europe's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will be of little use if we do not put in place effective global emissions controls.
unfortunately, the rapporteur does not take into account the costs associated with the requirement to reduce co2 emissions by 80%-95% by 2050 - the main assumption of this report.
well, in countries like poland, which produces 90% of its energy from coal, this policy will not only bring huge price increases, but it will also cause losses in the industrial sector, its relocation and high unemployment.
moreover, another of the provisions of the document provides for changes to the recently established emissions trading system.
another drawback of this report is that we set ourselves targets without knowing whether the 2020 strategy will succeed and what the outcome of the international climate negotiations will be, which we are waiting for in 2015. in summary, this report goes too far into the future, contains potentially harmful and overly ambitious provisions for a region that produces only 12% of global emissions.
we can work together to reduce emissions, but not in a way that is uniform across the eu.
for poland, the radical reduction in carbon emissions also means greater dependence on imported energy sources.
the experts also believe that the provisions on energy diversification and zero-emission sources by 2050 will not be met.
the report also presents the financial side of the pek too broadly, whereas the modernisation investments in new capacity in poland alone are estimated at eur 86 billion by 2030. the report is dangerous because it goes against world trends and diplomatic realities by assuming a unilateral reduction in emissions.
meanwhile, the eu is already the world's lowest emitter of greenhouse gases.
water management has a direct impact on human health, energy production, agriculture, food security.
we must realise that the days of so-called easy water are over and that it is our duty to update and revise existing legislation in this area to respond to and meet the challenges of urbanisation, population growth and pollution.
of course, the objectives set out in this report are not just ambitious, because environmental protection is certainly something that should unite us all.
however, it is worth noting that the eu has recently shown a tendency to impose very strict environmental policies on itself, in a situation where the eu's objectives are not shared by the world's largest polluters, such as india and china.
with reference to the commission communication and the report by mr davies on the transition to a low-carbon economy by 2050, i would like to stress two aspects.
the commission notes that the agreements were based on the companies' investment plans up to 2020. can such action be called regulatory certainty and a clear picture of the european low-carbon strategy?
the 2008 community arrangements have not all entered into force, we have not yet seen the effects of the package agreed, i believe it is too early to set new targets for reducing carbon emissions, which is why i voted against this document.
the strategy of moving to a low-carbon economy over the next 40 years is highly unfavourable.
the polish government vetoed the commission's proposal, arguing that further agreements should be reached after the global climate negotiations are concluded, which will take place in three years at the earliest.
the introduction of regulations aimed at the total elimination of coal and gas from the energy sector will seriously damage my country's economy based on these resources.
i agree with the proposal to give the commission the power to set legally binding targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and with its demand that the sale of surplus co2 be phased out.
- action towards a low-carbon economy must be based on real conditions, not on the ambitions of euro-bureaucrats and declarations forced on us by lobby groups.
it is one thing to push for renewable energy, which i support, but it is another to push for clean and safe nuclear energy, which i support.
however, it is naive and frivolous to talk about a low- or zero-carbon economy without any economic vision for the eu countries in the perspective of 2050, and without any vision for how to use available and cheap alternative energy sources, and without any vision for the future consumption pattern.
this ridiculous project has no practical future unless it takes full account of climate justice, i.e.
the distribution of the global and eu climate burden based on per capita co2 emissions.
if the plan for the transition to a low-carbon economy were to be implemented in this form, it would result in huge costs for european industry, high energy prices for households and significant unemployment.
we all know the benefits of a low-carbon economy, but especially in times of economic turmoil, we should focus on areas that do not generate such high costs for industry and ordinary citizens.
we should strive to reduce carbon emissions, but not in a way that would be particularly costly for some member states.
moreover, the union's post-2020 climate commitments should be conditional on a legally binding global agreement, otherwise we risk causing the opposite of the intended effects.
regarding the key priority – the improvement of relations with kosovo – we will be looking at several aspects: the implementation in good faith of agreements (as already mentioned), progress on outstanding issues such as telecommunications and energy, and active cooperation with eulex to enable it to exercise its function throughout kosovo.
it is an essential part of the puzzle that gives the european community the prospect of energy independence.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
i agree that european companies must take care of their economic performance in times of crisis - because they are the ones who generate employment - and also of broader social and environmental issues, but also of their own shareholders.
good governance is governance that is reasonable and sustainable, and that takes into account the interests of all stakeholders.
i have the impression - i'll be very honest - that some of the projects related to combating global warming, to reducing co2 emissions, are more ideological than economic, financial.
as vice-chairman of the committee on budgetary control, i am satisfied with the performance of the european investment bank in 2010. i particularly welcome the measures to finance environmental projects.
in particular, increase the burden on energy efficiency experts to 64% in 2011 and include this issue in the bank's priorities for 2011-2013. this is a positive step that strengthens the achievement of the 2050 low-carbon economy targets.
at the same time, as a member of the envi committee, i believe that the bank should place more emphasis in the near future on projects that support the development of public transport and water management and promote biodiversity.
this is an important trend contributing to the sustainable development of the union which should be maintained.
it is also an important access channel to the caucasus and caspian liquid fuel deposits and the planned nabucco gas pipeline is a key element of the union's energy security.
the approved business plan for the bank for the coming years identifies three main areas: the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, the fight against climate change and the support of the european union's external policy.
without adequate funding, the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth will be difficult to achieve.
poverty, infrastructure problems, energy, the strong influence of russia, unresolved conflicts with neighbors are just the beginning of the list.
the south caucasus is a key area for the eu's energy diversification plans.
i think we should do everything we can to stop iran from enriching uranium for civilian purposes, for energy and medicine, and then continue the negotiations next month in baghdad, and at the same time keep an eye on russia's actions so that it doesn't take advantage of the focus on iran to take control of the former soviet republics, especially their natural resources.
azerbaijan is an important partner of european countries in the field of energy security.
the development of energy-based economic cooperation is undoubtedly a key element of europe's strategy towards its eastern neighbours.
azerbaijan is an important country for europe, for the european union, not only - and very strongly - because of its energy policy, as my honourable predecessor has said, but also because of its geostrategic importance.
the commission has also proposed a new tax on the use of energy from renewable sources, which is ambitious because the legislation of eu countries on this tax differs significantly not only technically but also in the level of detail and economic priorities of the countries concerned reflected in this tax.
we have a similar problem with coal: 30% of the european economy is now dependent on coal production and a 25 or even 30% increase in the economy overnight - because 5 years in the economy is the overnight cost of energy - will cause europe to suffer all the economic consequences of this fact.
energy policy has been, is and will remain a sensitive area of national action and the adoption of europe-wide solutions in this area, with the different energy mix of each of them, may lead to a situation in which one or more eu member states will feel the negative consequences of the decision taken.
in the context of the restructuring of the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, i would like to draw attention not only to measures aimed at better environmental protection but also to solutions that go against the expectations of citizens and industry and consequently affect, among other things, economic growth, the unemployment rate or the level of energy prices.
in the context of poland and the lublin region, i would like to call for my country's right to opt-in to the emission component of the amended council directive, and to draw attention to the right to exploit rich coal resources on a competitive basis within the framework of a low-carbon economy, not a low-carbon economy.
with the technology available, the use of coal reserves does not necessarily translate into an increase in co2 emissions!
this regulation is a damaging creation of commission officials who allegedly conducted a comprehensive public consultation in preparation of a solution to complement the climate and energy package.
the commission has also proposed a new approach to the 3x20 policy objective, which is to ensure that the eu's environmental objectives are met.
the climate and energy package has hampered energy investments in poland, which threatens its energy security.
both the package and the anti-polish regulation are disguised protectionism in favour of certain low-carbon countries, and those who say that they are only concerned with protecting the climate are hypocrites.
this is particularly the case with transport and environmental infrastructure projects which generate revenue from the collection of charges from users and whose value cannot be covered by grants financed through the cohesion policy.
the measure also foresees the possibility of financing other projects which are not co-financed by cohesion policy programmes but which contribute to the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy and bring important added value to the union’s strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the recent climate summit in durban has clearly set out the global trends in how we approach global warming, and the most striking example is the extremely green canada, which has been blatantly withdrawing from the kyoto protocol.
as one of the country's main sources of income, the exploitation of forest resources leads to environmental degradation.
at the same time, more than 3 million hectares of forest in the car are subject to industrial concessions, which are mainly used by european companies, and these companies must have permits to obtain timber, so that the appropriate legal environment is also necessary for these companies and for the development of trade.
in order to ensure sustainable forest management and avoid forest degradation, the central african republic has committed itself under the agreement to trade only in legal timber products.
the objective pursued through this vpa is to contribute to the protection of intact forest landscapes and to ensure that the local forestry sector engages in an environmentally and socially sustainable pathway, and that regular and efficient monitoring is put in place with respect to the vpa's implementation.
− the current energy directive only set minimum tax rates for energy products used as motor fuels and heating fuels, as well as for electricity, with the amount of taxation dependent only on the consumption of the raw material.
the commission proposal amends the existing rules by proposing changes to the taxation of energy products to eliminate the existing disparities and to take account of co2 emissions together with the energy content of these products; introducing a 10-year transitional period for this change in order to fully harmonise the taxation system.
within 10 years, there is no real possibility in poland to obtain enough energy from renewable sources, or to build nuclear power plants as is the case in france to move away from coal.
moreover, the shift from a taxation system based solely on the amount of energy consumed to a new fuel, also dependent on fuel efficiency, may lead to the introduction of a so-called carbon tax, dependent on co2 emissions, which in my country means an additional increase in the excise duty on coal, which will be introduced in 2013. i voted against because i believe that the report adopted today and the legislative changes that follow will cause more problems than benefits.
− the amendment of directive 2003/96/ec aims to align the european energy taxation system with the objectives of the eu's climate change strategy.
the new fuel taxation system proposed by the european commission suggests a two-tiered tax rate, which is to be composed of the co2 emissions and the amount of energy that can be extracted from the raw material.
these changes are expected to lead to the increased use of biofuels and other renewable energy sources, gradually reducing the use of fossil fuels, thereby increasing energy efficiency while reducing carbon emissions.
the automobile industry, the transport industry, and the energy industry, which in some countries is almost entirely coal-based, will suffer huge losses.
in addition, the commission’s proposal for a revised directive on energy taxation changes the existing directive adopted in 2003 with respect to the structure of the energy taxation.
i do not agree that, by 2025, the commission should make legislative proposals aimed at harmonising car purchase taxes, car registration taxes and car ownership taxes based on co2 emissions, or issue a report explaining why it has not done so.
it is clear that measures and instruments must be taken to help protect the environment, which is our common good, the good of not only eu citizens but of citizens all over the world.
taxation of carbon emissions could be one such instrument.
however, from poland's point of view, taxing coal emissions could have dramatic consequences, including, in particular, a huge increase in coal prices, which in turn could put many polish households in an even more difficult situation than before.
- energy taxation is a very sensitive subject.
this is because energy prices are linked to the prices of other products and without adequate energy at a decent price, economies are immediately uncompetitive.
so i'm skeptical of the idea of additional energy taxes, especially if they're done in the name of climate policy.
it is important, of course, but not as important as a sound energy policy.
we cannot afford to increase the taxation of an energy product, which generates 30% of the eu's energy, by a factor of six in the run-up to 2018. that product is, of course, coal, which has been attacked by many members of this house.
since the amendments proposed by myself and the group of 40 members, which called for the optional nature of the emissions component, have failed, i have decided to vote against this directive.
energy-intensive industries in central europe have to pay twice for the same activity simply because coal is the dominant energy source in these countries.
already, the costs of climate policy in poland amount to €5.4 billion a year, which is more than half of the pre-tax profit of the entire polish industry.
i also see the continuation of the climate and energy package.
− the implementation of the solutions contained in this document leads directly to an increase in energy prices.
our actions should be directed in the opposite direction and should lead to lower energy prices and easier energy production.
we must finally resist the new european disease of green energy policy and the one-sided, pointless reduction of co2 emissions.
natural farming based on family farms, using traditional production methods is in reverse, and this is a very unfavorable process leading to a deterioration in the quality of food, a deterioration in animal welfare conditions, negative consequences for the environment and many other negative consequences.
the debate on women and climate change is a relatively new phenomenon, but given that women are the ones who are primarily responsible for consumer and household decisions, and that women are generally more active in civil society, i think that much more attention should be given to this issue.
today, i would like to highlight how women can become even more involved in the work and actions that are aimed at fighting climate change.
this will not only enable them to gain valuable expertise and build up a pool of experts, but will also put them in sectors that are directly linked to climate change and increase their participation in key climate change decision-making.
through their determination and innovative approach, women with access to microcredit, insurance and services will be a critical element in shaping the green economy and mitigating the impacts of climate change.
the report on the biodiversity strategy to 2020 by mr gerbrandy, as voted on in the committee on the environment, is very good, it presents a balanced position that takes into account the different approaches to biodiversity among member states, supports the objectives of the biodiversity strategy, the need for their urgent implementation.
it also supports the effective continuation of the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2020. it is now up to the european parliament to give clear support to biodiversity goals and actions, while also highlighting the need for their urgent implementation.
it is important to give a higher political priority to biodiversity in general and to counter the tendency to diminish its importance due to economic difficulties.
the common agricultural policy must be integrated into the protection of biodiversity.
now biodiversity has another chance, because the eu has already failed once before by not reaching its 2010 target.
we have shown unity in the vote on the environment committee and i hope that we will maintain that unity in the vote on today's session.
they need to be given tasks, to be supported by projects under the cohesion funds, which are aimed at protecting biodiversity.
we cannot allow industry and business to develop in a loosely controlled way at the expense of biodiversity.
biodiversity is undoubtedly our natural capital, and it is a matter that needs to be taken very seriously, both nationally and internationally.
this issue should be given high priority, action within the european union should be stepped up and biodiversity issues should be included in the strategies for the various sectors of the union's activities.
environmental protection is an important part of our policy.
we need an effective review of subsidies, grants, to eliminate those sources of funding that are harmful to the environment.
the protection of biodiversity should be addressed by union law to the same extent as in the un convention.
the commission has also proposed a new approach to the protection of biodiversity.
it is very important that the different environments in the european union do not use biodiversity as a tool to achieve goals that have little to do with biodiversity.
in order to increase the employment opportunities of women in technical and scientific positions, in non-traditional occupations, in low-carbon sectors of the economy and in high-tech sectors, new training opportunities for women in science, mathematics and technology need to be created.
- climate change issues are closely linked to equity issues.
the inclusion of women in eu 'climate diplomacy' is a priority for the first time.
women's participation in political decision-making, especially in climate change negotiations, is still insufficient and little progress has been made.
so we should strive to ensure that women are adequately represented in the teams that are working on climate change.
i believe that gender mainstreaming at every stage of climate policy, from design to financing, implementation and evaluation, will be mutually beneficial, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
- i supported the report on women and climate change.
research indicates that climate change is not gender neutral and its effects are differentiated for women and men.
this is confirmed by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) in its 4th assessment report 2007. women account for 85 percent of climate change deaths and 75 percent of environmental refugees.
therefore, climate change research should take greater account of gender.
i'm looking at the situation of women in developing countries, who are taking the brunt of climate change.
women and girls are disproportionately more vulnerable to the consequences of climate change, due to pervasive gender inequalities.
traditional gender roles and discrimination against women reduce their ability to adapt their lifestyles to climate change.
the effects of climate change will have long-term consequences for gender equality.
they are exacerbating inequalities in access to the wealth, the land, the new technologies, the education, the information that are essential elements in the fight against climate change.
- the environment is the greatest treasure of our planet.
it is vital for all citizens, since we all want to live in a clean, well-kept environment.
unfortunately, today, according to scientific data, more than half of the natural ecosystems on our planet are being degraded, non-renewable resources are being over-exploited, and our age-old industry and consumer lifestyles are leading to ever greater climate change.
to ensure the survival of the environment for future generations, we must do all we can to support actions to protect biodiversity and ecosystem security.
the right financial resources, cooperation not only at international but also at intercontinental level, coordination between different policy areas and, above all, the awareness that without nature life on earth cannot exist, are essential factors for the rapid and effective implementation of pro-environmental strategies that ensure a bright future for our heirs.
more women on decision-making bodies can improve the efficiency and innovation of the work environment, improve the overall performance of a company and thus contribute to strengthening europe's competitiveness.
we must remember that in times of economic crisis, when budgetary restraint is required of the member states, it is particularly important that the european union uses its resources carefully, limiting waste or irregularities and even fraud.
- i voted in favour of postponing the discharge of the european environment agency and the european medicines agency because, as the rapporteur, mrs macovei, has pointed out, we are faced with a conflict of interest in both of these agencies.
at the same time, the economic climate in the same country has never been so bad.
i'm not just talking about terrorist attacks, but also environmental disasters and food crises.
more and more, from all sides, we hear the voices of europe's citizens calling for action to restore the european union to sustainable and stable growth.
when we do business, let's not forget that we have to meet standards, not just social, environmental standards, but also human rights standards, even in that great country.
thirdly, the union must work more actively to make the chinese market more open to european companies, in order to reverse the negative balance and make the chinese market a more welcoming environment, especially for european investment.
the transfer of technology to china should be constantly compensated by the creation of new solutions that will provide a lasting and sustainable demand for european industrial production.
in the wake of the crisis, many european politicians are proposing new taxes: carbon taxes, environmental taxes, energy taxes, finally the ptf, finally the coordination of income taxes.
any action to improve environmental protection is always worth considering.
the double-hulled design of such vessels will provide much greater protection against failure of the contents of their cargo tanks, thereby reducing the risk of pollution.
these were huge ecological disasters and tragedies for marine life.
if this plate were damaged by collision or by a ship being stranded, the contents of the cargo tanks could leak into the sea and cause significant pollution.
i therefore fully support the objective of this regulation, which is to reduce the risk of accidental oil pollution in european waters by accelerating the introduction of double hulls.
the union is right to be concerned about fair, sustainable and favourable trade.
china must sign declarations on environmental protection and co2 reduction and must accept the imposition of anti-dumping duties on products from the middle east, e.g.
(microphone off at the beginning of the speech) ...thanks to the ease of energy acquisition.
at the same time, the energy and material resources were being depleted.
this is not just about the climate problems we are facing today, but about those whose rational solution, based on resource efficiency and a different consumption model, will allow the world's mixed species to continue to develop harmoniously.
the relocation of energy-intensive industries will continue to weigh on europe.
i would like to draw your attention to the fact that it says that greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by up to 95% compared to 1990 levels.
the legitimate demands of rationalising consumption and limiting the use of the earth's resources, including energy, cannot be pursued in isolation from economic and social realities.
my country, poland, has suffered enormous sacrifices and costs precisely because of the reduction of co2 emissions.
the pedagogy is that we cannot be naive when the major carbon emitters, the world's major powers, like the united states, china and india, are not following our lead.
a balanced raw materials policy should be based on at least three pillars: efficiency, recycling and the sustainable use of our own resources.
the introduction of legal prohibitions on the disposal of waste is acceptable, but with an indication of the possible maximum reuse of the components contained in it that can be used as raw materials.
the time of crisis is not a good time to introduce additional financial burdens in the form of an environmental tax.
the introduction of new legislation must not deviate from the real technical and technological possibilities and that is why i consider the provisions on the reduction of waste to almost zero to be an idealistic approach that has no practical application.
finally, i would like to say a few words about the introduction of environmental information for mass consumer products.
it is also time to rethink our habits, for using resources more wisely not only helps to protect the environment but also saves money and reduces costs in industry.
i am pleased that the report focuses on stimulating technological innovation, increasing employment in the fast-growing green energy sector, and maintaining trade within the european union.
it is also important that the european recycling system has a resource use indicator based on four basic indicators such as the soil footprint indicator, the water indicator, the material indicator and the carbon indicator.
another important issue is to maintain the prices of emission allowances and environmental resources and ecosystem services at levels desired by less developed countries, as too high prices can deprive low-income groups of raw materials.
we all agree that the biggest problem facing the european union is not the reduction of co2 emissions, it's not greece's problems, but youth unemployment.
the idea is to remove the environmental tax from labour and shift this burden onto raw materials, energy and materials.
−last autumn, the european commission adopted an action plan for a resource efficient europe, setting out the directions and initiatives to ensure that the union can grow economically in a sustainable way while respecting the environment.
ensuring biodiversity and healthy ecosystems for the citizens of our continent is a major challenge, requiring concrete, coordinated action from a wide range of policies (such as research, production and consumption, transport and construction) already now.
i am also not in favour of calling on member states to introduce an environmental tax.
i am in favour of efficient use of secondary raw materials and the creation of appropriate incentives to prevent waste.
however, for some member states such as poland the prohibitions, environmental taxes and other constraints will hit the average taxpayer the hardest.
it is a european strategy for future growth that has an international dimension, and it points to biodiversity, natural capital and ecosystem services.
the diversification of energy suppliers is essential for poland and europe.
while we are committed to an independent energy policy, some eu countries are moving in the opposite direction.
russia remains the largest supplier of gas and oil, while the union's dependence on imported energy resources could reach 67% in 2030, according to the international energy agency.
unfortunately, the debate on the merits of this issue is accompanied by accusations of environmental degradation.
in response, experts cite the evidence of advanced technology and stricter environmental regulations.
the main objectives of the cooperation, which should be continued, are to support latin american countries in tackling poverty and to promote sustainable socioeconomic development.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mrs edit herczog, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on energy policy cooperation with non-eu partners: a strategic approach to secure, sustainable and competitive energy supplies (2012/2029(ini)) (a7-0168/2012).
one of the european union's major problems is its energy dependence on non-european countries.
unfortunately, contrary to popular myth, green energy is not the answer.
the report in question accurately defines and describes the main objectives and challenges facing the union today in building energy independence.
i would like to draw particular attention to two aspects: firstly, the development of energy cooperation within the european union, in particular energy diplomacy.
second question there is also a need to support on a sustainable basis infrastructure projects that are key to the eu's energy sector, including pipelines, interconnectors, underground storage and gas ports.
i believe that stable funding and political support for these two transmission lines would provide cheap and secure energy for the community.
i can assure you that the secure and steady flow of energy at competitive prices is, for all of us, a fundamental necessity for the eu, but also a major challenge.
at the same time, a stronger and more assertive external energy policy reflecting the full strength of the eu on the global scene is equally necessary to achieve our energy objectives.
we need to ensure that internal market principles are respected and that eu energy security is promoted in a coherent way.
the proposals made by the commission last september represent an important step in our efforts to develop a common voice and also respond to the request of the european council of 4 february 2011. the commission welcomes the fact that the report recognises the importance of the external energy policy for the achievement of the eu energy objectives and stresses the need to promote regulatory convergence, diversification of supply and strengthened cooperation on sustainable energy policies.
we also share the view expressed in the report that coherence and coordination on external energy activities needs to be improved at eu level, including on the energy agreements with third countries.
without coordinated action, we will not be able to reap the benefits of a single european energy market of 500 million consumers and safeguard the security of supply for our citizens.
only a coherent position will allow europe to influence the global agenda on energy in a way commensurate with its weight and role.
such coordination can be strengthened, particularly through setting up an information exchange on intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy.
the mandatory submission of existing igas having an impact on the internal market for energy, the confirmation that the commission has the possibility to participate upon request in negotiations as an observer and to provide advice, as well as the possibility of performing, upon request, ex-ante compatibility checks of negotiated agreements with eu legislation, are all likely to further compliance and consistency with internal market rules, legal certainty for investors and, not least, solidarity among member states.
the eu’s external relations in the energy field should go beyond efforts to ensure the steady flow of energy, but also address sustainable energy, research and innovation, stable and transparent energy markets, international standards for key technologies and products, and energy efficiency.
this is important because of the role that energy plays in the overall political and economic relations with many of our partner countries, and because of the transformations we have seen in the energy field.
i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the european parliament, in particular the committee on industry, research and energy and its rapporteur edit herczog, for its supportive contribution in this policy area.
the report discussed today contains many important points, which the commission will take into due consideration when further developing the external energy policy and implementing its concrete activities.
we look forward to parliament’s continued support in our effort to develop a true external eu energy policy and to the continued discussion on the specific external energy activities.
i believe that the consolidated actions of the european commission in the report will ensure the building of a strong eu energy market by developing the links between the european energy network and creating a wider regulatory area in the countries neighbouring the union.
the rapporteur also rightly emphasised the commission's commitment to accelerating the diversification of suppliers, their routes and the sources of energy supply to the eu.
i am convinced that there is a continuing need to expand cooperation by building new interconnections linking european energy networks with the infrastructure of neighbouring countries, as well as by creating a wider regulatory area.
the development of information exchange tools to strengthen partnerships with suppliers in third countries is also an essential element for maintaining the stability of the energy system.
the report in question leaves no doubt eu decision-makers have done everything to increase energy prices.
contrary to popular opinion, citizens have been fooled by the slogans of the green revolution, the myths of a zero-emission economy and cheap energy.
it was believed that increasing green energy production by 20% in a short time and increasing energy efficiency would allow us to reduce our bills and achieve energy independence.
according to eurostat, over the last two years, household energy prices have risen by an average of 6.3% and gas prices by 12.3%.
unfortunately, we have brought this on ourselves, and for over two years we have been unable to make a decision on the construction of the nabucco pipeline project, which is the most important for our energy security.
the possibility of cooperation in shale gas extraction is particularly interesting, and i hope that the union will support this as an alternative to the lack of diversification in the supply of energy resources.
sustainable growth and budgetary discipline are possible, as the example of poland shows.
over the past decade, energy has become a foreign policy mechanism - especially in russia - in which some energy importers, such as my country, poland, are subject to political blackmail by the kremlin.
the proposed solution of a common coordinated negotiating position between the union countries will enable us all to become a strong player on the world energy market.
it is in the interest of my country and of the union as a whole to diversify energy sources.
i have experienced similar disasters in my country, and i am aware of the serious damage that the agricultural environment is facing.
the european union was created to help those who need it most, to increase their prosperity and to ensure sustainable development.
all you have to do is to turn on the human, social energy and the thousands of ideas of all these volunteers.
−energy security is one of the most important areas of the european union's economy.
unfortunately, the increasingly popular 'green energy' has so far not helped to reduce the community's dependence on external supplies.
therefore, any initiative related to the community's energy security should be supported by all eu political circles.
stable financing and, as i have already mentioned, political support for the above-mentioned investments would certainly help diversify the eu's energy sources and provide cheap energy for the community for years to come.
- the facts speak for themselves, europe imports its energy security from beyond its eastern and southern borders.
this would be the easiest way to describe our current energy policy.
the solution is simple: eu energy solidarity, which will, among other things, lead to the co-financing of projects that are strategic for our energy security, such as the nabucco and sarmacja pipelines.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted by the threat of nuclear accidents.
i am opposed to the introduction of a european climate tax and to the demands for an increase in the price of greenhouse gas emission allowances granted to industrial operators.
the president confirmed that peru will respect the agreements with the european union, emphasizing the pro-environmental policy of the peruvian government, the policy of fighting against the production of drugs.
to achieve economic growth, we need a well-functioning internal market, and for that we need the right legal environment.
the europe 2020 strategy assumes that 75% of people aged 20 to 64 will be in employment by the end of 2020. this is therefore expected to contribute to sustainable economic growth in the union.
the prospect of a so-called climate package, which could lead to half a million unemployed in my country, poland, for example, is also worrying.
they have caused damage to public and private property and environmental damage, costing billions of euros.
i voted in favour of the resolution because it draws attention to the need to take initiatives to simplify procedures for the business environment and to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens.
− following the proper procedure in the event of a major accident involving dangerous substances is of the utmost importance, as it can pose a risk not only to the environment but also to human life.
major industrial accidents such as those in seveso (italy, 1976), bhopal (india, 1984), schweizerhalle (switzerland, 1986), enschede (netherlands, 2000), toulouse (france, 2001) and buncefield (uk, 2005) have claimed many lives and caused damage to the environment.
− major industrial accidents cost many lives and cause great natural losses and environmental destruction.
some pesticides pollute the environment and unfortunately their residues can be found in products intended for the youngest.
− the europe 2020 strategy envisages that 75% of people aged 20 to 64 will remain in employment by the end of 2020, thereby contributing to sustainable economic growth in the eu.
the main factors driving up unemployment in central and eastern europe, as well as in the union as a whole, are the import of cheap products from the east, especially china and india, rising energy prices and the collapse of european markets.
unfortunately, contrary to the analysis of european experts, policy makers want to continue down the road of economic ruin by pushing for unthinking and unilateral cuts in co2 and greenhouse gas emissions.
in poland alone, scientists estimate that the energy and climate package will cost about 500,000 jobs by 2050. i therefore believe that we should try to bring about a debate as soon as possible on the social impact of 'strategic and long-term union projects'.
sustainable management of water resources is needed in the union and in its neighbouring countries.
thirdly, given the increasing frequency of flooding risks in recent years, which have been observed in the member states, due to climate change, a comprehensive analysis of the possibilities of preventing their effects is needed.
we are currently focusing on energy security in europe, which is understandable.
water is of particular importance for food security, agricultural development and environmental protection.
the main advantage of the european market is a stable and predictable business and legal environment.
in europe, there is a growing emphasis on socially responsible business, which, in addition to the general objective of increasing shareholder value, also focuses on environmental, environmental and social issues.
despite the efforts, it is clear that further work is needed on energy efficiency, the european patent and schengen.
all of you here know that it has not been easy to push the green agenda in a time of crisis, but i am proud of the results that we have achieved together in this area, particularly when we talk about energy efficiency.
today, looking back at copenhagen, we can congratulate denmark on its successes in many areas, such as the eu budget, the union's multiannual financial framework for 2012-2020, climate policy and energy.
− macro-regional strategies open up new perspectives for territorial cooperation projects based on cohesion policy and offer more effective solutions to the economic and environmental problems of the area.
they also represent an innovative form of interregional and transnational european cooperation, which contributes to greater coherence and coordination of policies across sectors, promotes job creation and ensures sustainable growth.
a policy of sound management of these resources is key to the continent's sustainable development and food security.
factors such as urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution have a negative impact on the availability and quality of safe water resources.
i support the publication of the 'european water plan' planned for november 2012. i believe that europe should take a clear position on this issue also in the context of the upcoming sustainable development conference rio+20.
the acta treats three important issues: 1) the commercial right to use a trademark; 2) the rights of internet users to move around in the digital environment (article 27); 3) the rights of creators to benefit financially from the marketing of their works.
what a waste of time.
farmers in these countries have accepted that they will have to operate in an unequal competitive environment for ten years, but this period was to end for these ten countries in 2013, and for romania and bulgaria a little later.
the accession of ukraine and moldova to the energy community treaty is a key security issue.
we impose on them new responsibilities, such as environmental responsibilities, and we don't even know how much money farmers will get to meet those challenges.
for this reason, the eu should continue to monitor how russia improves its business environment.
in view of the high cost of transport and energy investments, encouraging greater private sector involvement and the use of return instruments are of key importance.
i also share with many of you the frustration sometimes of not having enough energy and determination to move things forward.
it is really an interesting thing to look at the international stage and see that we, who are in the deepest crisis economically and financially, are basically the leaders in the field when it comes to sustainability.
green capital accounting, corporate sustainability reporting beyond gdp: if we focus on that and if we get a solid background on which we can build political decisions, then we can really move things forward.
today, the european community, under the dictates of the environmentalists and the left, has set itself ambitious targets for reducing emissions.
however, it is not the union, which produces only 11% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, but the above-mentioned countries that are responsible for most of the world's industrial emissions and consumption of natural resources.
china and the united states became the world's largest importers of oil and the world's most energy-intensive economies.
both countries have long been strongly opposed to any attempt to reduce emissions.
therefore, out of concern for the environment and the future of europe, we should do everything we can to encourage the international community to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
for example, the directive of the european parliament and of the council on shipowners' insurance against maritime claims, the protocol amending the convention on the limitation of liability for maritime claims, the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the liability of passenger carriers on maritime infringements, the international convention on the establishment of a pollution compensation fund are just a few examples of the vast amount of regulation affecting the maritime industry.
− achieving sustainable economic growth is facilitated by modern and efficient infrastructure.
it is estimated that investment in transport, energy and telecommunications will cost around €1.5 trillion over the next decade.
− project bonds are an instrument that was created to finance projects under the connecting europe programme to create a transport, energy and digital network.
the reduced risk and increased trust and satisfaction flowing from the use of standards opens markets for them in a secure environment.
precisely because of this importance, standardisation must adapt to the new societal changes that we face: the globalised economy, the need for sustainable development, the convergence of technologies protecting the consumer and improving accessibility and inclusion for disabled and elderly people.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
shale gas has become a hope for many european union countries in the wake of the energy crisis and the blackmail mechanism russia has begun using by threatening to turn the gas turkey.
in this situation, large shale gas deposits, which have been confirmed in several eu countries, give hope for energy independence and independence from possible actions and interference by russia, which would use the energy instrument in relations with the eu countries.
this is the right course to take, because it improves the quality of life and helps to protect the environment.
with full understanding of the project to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from marine fuels, i would like to express some doubts about this legislation.
in addition, i would note that a tenfold reduction in emissions in the seca areas, which also include the baltic sea, would be expected as early as 2015. this raises the question of whether it is technically possible to provide sufficient fuel until then.
i welcome the proposal to amend the environmental legislation.
the fact that air pollution is caused by the sulphur content of marine fuels is a major problem, given the issue of existing solutions for sulphur emissions on land.
i believe that we need to develop appropriate rules for maritime transport, so that the impact of emissions of pollutants is reduced in both the aquatic and terrestrial environment.
the main challenge is to set stricter sulphur limits: within the sulphur emission control areas (seca) cuts to 0.1% by 2015 and outside the seca to 0.5% by 2020. tightening fuel standards and regulations on emission reduction methods is possible while respecting the principles of sustainable development.
by promoting high environmental standards, europe will become more competitive.
the expected environmental effects will be similar in northern and southern europe, so the limits should not differ significantly.
we want to focus on providing equal opportunities for companies of all sizes, while respecting the environment and the principles of a sustainable economy.
i think that the energy efficiency criterion in public procurement must be clearly balanced by the price criterion.
we cannot have high electricity bills today replaced by very high, unprofitable, unrecoverable bills for energy efficiency services and goods.
i think our citizens are pretty indifferent to whether they're paying too much for electricity or paying too much in taxes for energy efficiency.
the linking of energy efficiency with climate policy is a very damaging one.
as the report shows, top-down energy constraints are key to efficiency.
the efficient use of primary energy depends on the efficiency and number of conversion processes, the activation and dynamics of combustion processes (i.e.
the greatest reserves of real efficiency lie in thermal upgrading, cogeneration, reducing energy consumption.
member states shall measure their efficiency as primary energy consumption per capita in 2020 in relation to the reference year.
i believe that the directive we are discussing today gives a lot of flexibility to member states, industry and the public sector, while supporting the efforts of eu members to increase energy efficiency at all stages of the energy chain, from processing, through distribution, to final consumption.
the energy efficiency index in the industrial sector decreased by 58% between 1995 and 2009, compared to 20% for the eu as a whole.
this reflects a significant improvement in energy efficiency in the industry, which is well above the eu average.
the need to conserve energy has been around for a long time.
however, in both industry and households, there are always more important expenditures than the cost of energy efficiency.
i would like to ask whether, according to the minutes of the french-russian government meeting of november 2011, russia has actually submitted to the european commission a draft bilateral agreement that would exclude from the rules of the common market from the third energy liberalisation package russian export pipelines.
the shale gas shall be contained, if there is a lot of it, in an energy basket.
at the same time, a number of commissioners have commissioned various studies on the issues of technological safety and environmental impact of shale gas extraction technologies.
because the information that we had in our committee, it shows that many of the centers represented specific manufacturers, like renewable energy equipment.
i voted in favour of the report on the sulphur content of marine fuels directive because i believe that in its present form it is a balanced document, taking into account both the key environmental issues and the importance of maintaining the competitiveness of the european fleet.
the eu countries spend over four hundred billion euros a year on energy imports, making them heavily dependent on foreign suppliers.
any action to increase energy efficiency, conserve resources and reduce the high level of dependence is desirable.
support for eu energy-producing companies is fully justified, as it contributes to the competitiveness of europe in the world and, within the union, to the development of this sector of the economy, as well as other sectors, and to the creation of jobs.
with energy prices rising steadily, it is in the interest of european consumers to ensure that these costs are kept under control.
the objective of absolute reduction of energy consumption set out in the directive must therefore be taken into account in energy management strategies.
− the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on energy efficiency and repealing directives 2004/8/ec and 2006/32/ec examined several key issues that will determine the future of europe.
according to the international energy agency, poland will need 50 percent more energy in 15 years than it can produce today.
the production of this quantity is hampered by the strict eu co2 emission standards and the need to deploy renewable energy technologies.
europe also faces the challenge of increasing energy efficiency by 20% by the end of 2020 (european council conclusion of 4 february 2011).
we are facing a challenge that forces us to develop faster, with less damage to the environment, which is not easy to meet!
outdated infrastructure and technologies are causing a lot of waste and high emissions, and to change that, investment is needed.
in addition, instruments that would reduce energy consumption by citizens should be considered.
- i abstained on the energy efficiency directive.
on the one hand, the legitimate objectives of reducing energy costs are presented, while on the other hand, a system of 'energy-efficient public procurement' is being created, for which the taxpayers will ultimately pay a very high price.
− although the commission was right to finally focus on energy efficiency after considering the market effects, the report did not address this issue.
the latter should be measured by the growth rate as the difference between the primary energy consumption per unit of gdp per capita of the country from year to year divided by the output consumption per unit of gdp per capita, times 100 in percentage.
energy policy, defined after the adoption of the right 3x20 political objective in 2007 by the member states, has been distorted by the climate and energy package.
it introduces unfair competition, discriminating against countries whose energy mix is dominated by coal as a primary energy source.
if not only the energy mix but also the policy objective is left to the member states, this will result in more primary energy being wasted and more co2 being emitted than is realistically possible.
− improving energy efficiency is one of the best ways to combat global warming.
i am very positive about the measures taken so far to improve the energy efficiency of residential buildings.
i therefore welcomed the draft energy efficiency directive which requires member states to renew 3% of the total heated or cooled area of buildings owned or occupied by public authorities each year.
on the other hand, the solution adopted is a major step forward in achieving the greenhouse gas reduction targets.
crucially, the directive will close the gap between us and the target of 20% energy savings by 2020. now we can guarantee that we'll be able to reduce energy consumption by 15 percent.
in view of the above, i have decided to support the content of the energy efficiency report.
the european union spends over €400 billion a year on energy imports, and eu countries are in many cases dependent on supplies (especially gas) from a single source.
i therefore fully support the idea of reducing energy consumption through more efficient use, which will lead to a reduction in dependence on third countries and will benefit ordinary citizens.
that is why i have decided to support the eu's energy efficiency directive.
− the energy efficiency report is one of the few parts of the europe 2020 agenda that does not have a negative impact on the economy.
however, like other records, the 20% increase in energy efficiency is also very costly for countries, especially in times of economic crisis.
therefore, energy efficiency improvements should primarily concern improved efficiency in the energy concentration in homes and energy efficiency improvements in industry, including improvements in energy transmission.
this is because standards are not always designed to take account of the characteristics and environment of small enterprises, micro-enterprises and craft enterprises.
the level of pollution cannot exceed 1,5% and is much lower than in most other marine areas covered by the conventions.
without significant environmental benefits, the cost of changing the rules could in this case have a very negative impact on the coastal economy.
− according to the commission's estimates, the health benefits in terms of quantity outweigh the costs of reducing emissions from marine areas.
the environmental objectives set may therefore not be met, as the increase in cycling is very likely in the event of a higher price of maritime transport.
this will cause additional damage to the environment and congestion on the roads.
it is important to increase the provision of education and career guidance, promote apprenticeships and vocational training for women, and create new training opportunities to increase employment opportunities in low-carbon and high-tech sectors.
i support the proposal that member states should deduct investment in education and training from the budget deficit calculation under the fiscal compact, as this is recognised as a key driver of sustainable economic recovery in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
the third thing is energy, but there's no time for that.
this policy should guarantee the sustainable development of the marine environment, fish resources, fishermen and related industries, as well as coastal communities.
a properly managed maritime policy, which significantly improves the competitiveness of the fisheries sector, can have a positive impact on the functioning of the eu economy as a whole, and the establishment of a maximum sustainable yield (msy) threshold will allow for the rational exploitation of fisheries resources and the establishment of a stable multiannual strategy for the sector.
full synergy between the cap and other policies, such as environmental policy and cohesion policy, will improve economic prosperity throughout the community, and especially in regions where the economy is mainly based on this industry.
therefore, urgent action is needed to prevent this ecological disaster and the voluntary deprivation of humanity of its diversity.
so yes, the banking union certainly must be designed in such a way that it works towards deepening the integration of the single market, because the euro area cannot be sustainable if the disintegration of the single market continues.
but there is a second long-term perspective here and an even more considerable risk for a sustainable euro area, and here i am thinking of the way the opt-in mechanism for non-euro member states is designed.
the report makes a number of important points, such as the need to make better use of the common foreign and security policy budget and the problem of diversifying energy sources.
− i voted in favour of this recommendation because i am confident that the agreement amending the mutual recognition agreement (mra) will lift technical barriers to trade between the eu and australia while safeguarding our health, safety and environmental objectives.
i voted in favour of this recommendation because i am confident that the agreement amending the mutual recognition agreement (mra) will lift technical barriers to trade between the eu and new zealand while safeguarding our objectives in terms of health, environment, and safety.
when imposing these restrictions, the commission should evaluate environmental, trade, economic and social effects of the measures to ensure that they are proportionate and compatible with international trade.
− i voted in favour of this report since, among other things, it helps clarify the necessary information that must be given to the consumer on fisheries products, introduces the requirement for the commission to develop an eu wide eco-label for sustainable fishery products and creates a new regional advisory council for the outermost regions.
i support efforts to reward sustainable fishing practices with an eu eco-label.
- it is difficult to overestimate the importance of the introduction and supervision of the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources for the whole fisheries sector.
climate), affect this.
the commission's concern for responsible fishing, the fight against unethical fishing (many fish stocks are still overfished) and, above all, the consideration of biological, ecological, economic and social aspects make it worthy of support.
the next item is the report by krišjānis kariņš, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council setting up an information exchange mechanism with regard to intergovernmental agreements between member states and third countries in the field of energy (com(2011)0540 – c7-0235/2011 – 2011/0238(cod)) (a7-0264/2012).
it is true that many measures have been taken to increase the security of energy supply to the european market (see the 'security of supply' regulation and the measures taken to build the single internal market).
the union's energy balance in the light of the proposed open and free energy market cannot be disrupted by irresponsible or ill-considered bilateral decisions, and therefore member states should share information on intergovernmental agreements concluded and the commission should be aware of the existence of agreements and negotiations.
the council has allowed national interests to prevail over european energy solidarity.
i hope that russia's denial of the third energy package and its statements forbidding gazprom from sharing any information will cause the council to reconsider its position.
as we all know, european agriculture provides us with a wide variety of food, produced using many different methods, but with respect for the environment and rural communities.
but the challenge is all the more demanding because europe’s smes need to invest in knowledge-based undertakings, innovation and new sources of growth that can create sustainable jobs and upgrade the competitiveness of the european economy.
the commission states that it is not aware of most of the member states' energy agreements.
this means that it has no ability to react to extremely unfavourable contracts for supplies from outside the union, which directly reduce the energy security of the country concerned.
energy agreements with third countries also affect the functioning of the internal energy market.
energy supply contracts are usually concluded between commercial entities, but there are some situations when intergovernmental agreements (iga) are requested of an eu member state.
sometimes, however, the aim of the third country is to bind an eu member state to assure the commercial contract or to secure a monopolistic position in energy supplies via particular infrastructure.
i believe that in order to avoid a breach of internal market rules in the field of energy, we must enhance our internal eu cooperation regarding igas.
it will significantly improve the functioning of the internal energy market.
it is also important that it contains clauses requiring member states to exchange full information on intergovernmental agreements that affect the volume of energy imports into the union.
- the european union has been struggling with energy security for years.
we must also not forget the respect of environmental standards in the production process, and - and this is particularly important - the enforcement of human rights, which are often violated in the countries with which we have agreements.
the union has no significant role to play in this region, which is vital to our energy security.
we want development policy to be coherent, effective, sustainable and well coordinated.
in considering the situation of the banking sector in poland, i would like to point out that cooperative banks represent exclusively polish capital and are linked to the local environment, which allows for its rational and safe use.
the second pillar is mainly for rural development and environmental programmes and less for farmers.
these include sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment for young people and smes.
− this is a particularly important budget, as it concludes the financial framework for 2007-13. during that time, the european union allocated considerable funds to the cohesion fund, which has led to many infrastructure and environmental investments, including in the kujawy-pomeranian voivodeship, where i come from.
- the advantage of the preliminary report by mr böge and mr kalfin is undoubtedly the investment nature of the eu budget, whether through the funding of the lifelong learning programme, including the erasmus programme, or the recognition of the eu's cohesion policy, of which poland is the main beneficiary, as a pillar of european solidarity and a strategic tool for sustainable growth.
on the other hand, however, the solutions for financing the climate package, which is extremely harmful to the polish economy, and the eu agencies, including the eeas, decided that i could not support the above report, and therefore abstained.
it is important for integration that the european globalisation adjustment fund and the existing financial resources for co2 reduction and climate change mitigation are maintained at least at their current level.
- in the vote on the multiannual financial framework, i voted in favour of the ep's position, which calls for a guarantee of the sustainability of agricultural expenditure and structural policies, in particular cohesion policy.
− the budget of the european union is a key instrument for the sustainable and inclusive development of the union as a whole.
among other things, it has introduced an obligation to allocate up to 20% of spending to combating climate change.
the current eu policy in this area (the so-called energy and climate package) will lead to a doubling of energy prices in poland, loss of competitiveness of polish industry, loss of several hundred thousand jobs and may threaten poland's economic growth.
the european commission intends to continue next year with the implementation of the climate and energy package, among other things.
2013 also marks the transition to the third stage of the european union's emissions trading system.
at the same time, i hope that next year the commission will also be considering my fellow citizens' request to be registered as one of the first citizens' initiatives to suspend the harmful climate and energy package for our part of europe.
it will also allow for a faster response to market needs, especially for plantations of fast-growing trees for energy and biomass production.
we don't need to introduce an obligation to trade emissions in aviation we just need to implement the idea of the single european sky to achieve similar environmental effects.
i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that it is essential to create an environment favourable to the development of new enterprises.
we therefore need to create the right environment for the implementation of innovative solutions in existing and newly created enterprises.
of course, we must be aware of the limitations that still exist, including those related to weak transport and energy networks, the obstacles to the free flow of services, and the lack of a real online marketplace.
the aim of the single market is the free movement of goods, services and capital between member states, which should lead to sustainable economic growth.
− i voted in favour of this report because i support the european union and the republic of moldova’s aim to assure the mutual protection of geographical indications in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade as well as to promote quality in the food chain and stimulate value for sustainable rural development.
this will improve the conditions for bilateral trade, as well as promoting food quality and supporting sustainable rural development.
of course, strategies for agricultural and food policy, energy and human rights are also important.
the development and implementation of clear human rights-based policies offers hope for equal and sustainable partnerships with developing countries.
however, there is a concern that innovative financial instruments will only be used for short-term investments designed to make a quick profit, and not for projects that provide smart, sustainable economic growth.
i am also glad that mr cutaşa has said that we do not want to continue to discriminate in the supply of energy and in the diversification of energy supplies, but i am also glad that both mr cutaş and the green representative have mentioned the issue of human rights, because we are indeed expecting - and i see a representative of the russian federation in the gallery.
the russian president and government have been frequently critical of our eu's third energy package, and gazprom has refused to abide by its rules.
they say - and they've started using this argument - that the energy package violates the rules of the world trade organization, that it's a drag on free trade.
the third energy package is in line with international law.
gazprom uses the provisions of this third energy package, despite criticising it.
the monopolist increased its trading activities in the union and bought a number of european energy companies.
we remember that it was based on the idea of opening up the european union's economy to russia, of strengthening relations, of allowing russian investment in the european union, especially in the energy sector, which is so important for the russian budget.
russia is now much more dependent on exports of natural resources, mainly energy, than it was a dozen years ago.
russia has primarily exported energy and mineral fuels to the eu; the eu has covered a vast range of areas in which it has exported to russia, such as nearly all categories of machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food, and live animals.
russia and the european union are also interdependent trading partners in raw materials and primary energy sources.
therefore it must be said that while we are putting energy in to safeguarding the internet for children just as much energy should be put into the positive side as well.
the european emissions trading system is currently being revised.
the sustainability requirements for motorcycles and the timetable for the introduction of new provisions also take into account our comments.
− the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010 has highlighted the need for increased safety and the need for a sustainable management policy for offshore oil and gas operations to protect against pollution from exploration and production.
these agreements commit the parties to promote a responsible and sustainable fisheries policy, which is why i voted in favour.
i support the main objectives of the report, which are to simplify the current legal framework and to define new administrative and technical requirements for environmental and safety and market surveillance, as regards the requirements relating to the type-approval of l-category vehicles.
− the regulation aims to simplify the current legal framework and to define new administrative and technical requirements which relate to the environment and safety and market surveillance.
this report is one example, which aims to establish uniform rules for the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles, which will not only improve the functioning of the internal market but also ensure a higher level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection.
− it is important to establish uniform rules for the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles, guaranteeing the functioning of the internal market while ensuring a high level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection.
− i have voted in favour of the social business initiative – creating a favourable climate for social enterprises, key stakeholders in the social economy and innovation (2012/2004(ini)) as it provides our communities with the necessary resources to not only boost local and national economies but more importantly allows for a platform to assist our citizens.
−the objectives of building an ecosystem that fosters social enterprises at the heart of the social economy, social innovation, include both recognising existing structures and opening up to new, innovative forms of the social economy.
i am glad that a balanced compromise has been reached at the level of my committee on the environment, where the shadow rapporteurs have shared my cautious approach, which emphasises the highest environmental standards and stringent requirements, but at the same time gives shale a chance, a chance to be commercially viable.
europe cannot afford not to use its own resources, which can not only help reduce dependence on external supplies and increase the eu's energy security, but also contribute to a policy of reducing emissions.
the european commission's communication on the energy roadmap 2050 states that gas will play a key, pivotal role in the energy system transformation by contributing to emission reductions, and this is likely to happen.
mrs grèze, are you aware that producing 1 kilowatt of electricity from coal requires more water than producing the same kilowatt of energy from unconventional gas, or did you miss this fact?
i do not know whether the people who talk about a moratorium on shale gas all the time are aware that the european treaty states that each country can choose its energy basket.
and we will not call for a moratorium on nuclear power plants, demanding that france shut them down, and you cannot demand another ban on other energy sources.
unlocking the potential of unconventional gas in europe means a more competitive energy market, lower prices for ordinary citizens and businesses, and thus a more competitive economy.
ultimately, this means the ability to reduce co2 emissions more effectively and support renewable energy sources, which sometimes require such support for the simple reason that sometimes the sun doesn't shine and sometimes the wind doesn't blow.
i don't understand why the proponents of renewable energy have such a problem with gas, when it is their only solution, as the american experience shows.
the report prepared by the environmental protection committee looks as if it were written on some other subject.
out of 74 points, literally 3 of them suggest a non-critical, non-cautious, sustainable way of talking about gas.
the hard-headed left sees in gas only dangerous substances, landscape destruction, water pollution, air pollution, toxic waste, escaping methane, finally and this is the absolute icing on the cake also the increased land prices in africa are related to the use of unconventional gas in europe.
it is as if we do not have the highest, best environmental standards in europe, which are eagerly introduced by the member states and industry.
the report, because of the compromise provisions, is a complete mess: in one place it talks about the reduction potential, in another it says that co2 emissions could be even higher; in one place it says that the environmental impact assessment directive is being applied, in three other places it literally says that the directive should be applied.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
as for the implementation of environmental legislation poland is a country that has no case before the ets for not implementing any provision of eu environmental law, and i do not know anyone in poland, either a politician or a businessman, who would not want to apply these rules, because they make this market better for everyone, make it a fairer market.
and this is certainly a huge opportunity, i've talked about this, it could affect energy prices.
the high energy prices today make it increasingly difficult for us to have an industrial policy, and we are losing our competitiveness.
in the productivity rankings, our countries are falling because of the price of energy.
of course, such activities always involve risks and that is why we must and want to apply the environmental standards that are required by eu law.
as co-rapporteur on the environment committee, i am once again aware of the danger of a biased, unbiased view of shale gas extraction.
citizens of many countries, such as poland, see the newly discovered shale gas deposits as a great opportunity to reduce energy prices and become independent of external energy supplies, especially from the east.
i'm very sorry that environmentalists don't see shale gas as a chance to decarbonize our energy system, which is now based mostly on coal.
already, the climate package, especially the further reduction of co2, is setting very difficult conditions to meet and is creating huge economic and social problems in many countries.
finally, in this difficult context, i would like to once again congratulate the rapporteur members from both parliamentary committees who recognise the strategic importance of shale gas for european energy.
i have a question: is the president aware that virtually all forms of energy use water, and can he make a short comparative analysis of how much water is used, for example, in nuclear energy, in mining, etc.?
i think that you shouldn't use arguments that are completely populist, because they apply to all types of energy extraction.
do you not think that it would be better if the security of the citizens of bulgaria, including environmental security, were taken care of by the bulgarian government and the security of the citizens of poland - by the polish government - rather than the whole union taking care of who is responsible for what kind of security?
we were talking about greenhouse gas emissions, and you said that there's a lot more of it when you're mining shale gas, and my colleagues have already talked about that.
i wonder if you are aware of the european commission report which clearly states that shale gas produces less greenhouse gases than coal and also emits less than russian gas transported from siberia to europe.
ms rivasi is known to be very critical of this energy source and often even questions the national dimension of the decision on this issue.
but you were visiting the committee on industry, energy and research in poland and you saw what the polish environmental regulations are.
do you not think that the american examples - even if there were some mistakes - should not be transferred to the european soil, that there are countries in the european union which, although they have only recently become its member states, have environmental law and authority in this matter such that it allows for the real protection of the environment - and of water resources, and of land, and of many other resources that are associated with the process of exploration and exploitation of gas?
only this europe must be free, must respect the right to make free economic decisions, especially when they are very restrictive on environmental matters.
the need to diversify energy sources means that we cannot neglect such a significant resource as shale gas.
that's why the polish government is making shale a priority in energy policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources.
i agree with the argument of mr. sonik that we cannot afford not to use our own energy resources.
shale provides jobs, is safe, is green, reduces energy costs, diversifies the supply of energy to europe, which is very important for some countries.
i was wondering if you know of any energy-producing activities that don't change the environment?
i know of many places where the location of wind turbines as a renewable energy source has sparked public outcry.
in your opinion, does the extraction of conventional gas also have no impact on the environment?
does coal mining, for example, have an impact on the environment?
for example, does not the harvesting of energy from solar systems have an environmental impact, since we have to use many rare earth elements in them?
i believe that the doubts about the potential for groundwater pollution with the development of shale gas extraction and the possible leakage from wells, which are treated as disasters in the industry, can be resolved by adopting best practices in the execution of wells and further substantive discussion.
in poland, we have extremely stringent environmental standards, which are much higher than those in the united states.
the unique opportunity facing the european economy is the potential access to its own energy resources, which should be a rallying point for european public opinion.
and i am also glad that in the commission - as the commissioners have mentioned - several commissioners will be dealing with this matter, because this will allow us to take full account of the ecological and environmental aspects, as well as the economic and security aspects in europe.
what's really troubling to me in this debate today is that one side has been emphasizing that they care about health and they care about people's health, and that those who talk about growth, about jobs, don't care about health, don't care about the environment.
we also care about health and the environment.
when my country, poland, agreed in 2007 to a dramatic reduction in its international standing by leaving the nice system and moving to a double-majority system, the lisbon treaty was to compensate for this loss by introducing a clause on european energy solidarity.
under the lisbon treaty, the nordstream pipeline was completed as a vital element of energy solidarity.
and lastly, mr president, if the principle of european energy solidarity is to make any sense, then i say to the other side of the room: hands off shale gas.
let europe enjoy this great wealth which can be the driving force behind our economic development, our economic independence, our energy.
so we have taken into account all the fears that exist today - not in all societies, because as the example of poland shows, most are positive about shale gas extraction - but we have to take the average and assure european citizens that a clear message is coming from brussels or strasbourg - and we have done our best to ensure the safety of the environment and citizens when extracting shale gas.
the extraction of shale gas on the one hand means diversification of gas fuel sources, which is a prerequisite for ensuring energy security, and on the other hand it ensures the reduction of emissions from combustion, the reduction of air pollution from the energy sector and the increase of energy efficiency.
the eu economy needs shale gas to recover and help create jobs, while breaking the link between economic growth and co2 emissions.
shale gas means better implementation of the union's climate policy through a change in the energy balance resulting from a gradual move away from a high-carbon economy and towards greener energy sources.
the recipe is simple: transparent regulations, honest dialogue with the public and environmental organisations, promotion of the safest extraction technologies, dedicated monitoring of the areas where extraction takes place.
europe needs good, cheap energy to keep growing, so it has been given the gift of shale gas.
to reject it would be a grave mistake, to exclude our continent from being a respected player in the world energy market.
the attack on shale gas the remedy for europe's energy problems is marked by the one-sided, narrow-minded viewpoint that has characterized the lobbyists of russia's gazprom the monopoly that loses the most on shale gas extraction.
although today 12% of the steel sold in the world is produced in europe - our companies supply about 80% of the european market and export 80% of their products - we cannot help but note that, on the one hand, the economic crisis and the stagnation of the euro zone, combined with the ever-higher prices of raw materials and energy, are a problem for all our steel companies, to which is added strong competition from countries, especially asian countries, with a steel industry that produces at lower cost.
the steel sector in europe is experiencing a crisis of declining competitiveness and rising production costs, largely due to the wrong decisions to adopt an energy and climate package mandating a reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020. in poland alone, the implementation of its provisions will increase unemployment by about 250 thousand people and increase energy prices.
if the situation does not change, there will be further closures of large furnaces and a shift of production to ukraine and india, where no climate restrictions apply.
the steel rescue programme should therefore be based on the suspension of the provisions of the energy and climate package, which is leading to the deindustrialisation of europe.
and this is a classic example of carbon leakage.
if the european commission continues to change the emissions trading system, the situation will only get worse and we are very concerned about this.
and on thursday, we will vote on the draft resolution for cop 18. the document expresses concern about the increasing level of imported emissions.
before we do anything, we need to make sure that what we do really helps and that we are not exporting jobs to import pollution.
while congratulating the rapporteur, i would also like to underline the continued need to monitor the implementation of european law in the european union, especially in the areas of environmental law, justice and the internal market, as the vast majority of petitions received in 2011 concerned breaches of law in these areas.
in 2011, our work in the committee on petitions focused primarily on two issues: environmental protection and the protection of fundamental rights.
the first one relates to the environmental petitions and to the speech made by mr boştinaru concerning the revision of the environmental impact assessment directive.
i believe that this would also give a bit of clarity to the process and strong assurances to citizens that all the environmental impacts are assessed properly.
petitions to the european parliament have led to infringement proceedings in many areas, such as environmental protection and the respect of fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights.
otherwise, we will create a situation where farmers may lose the incentive to meet any environmental criteria in exchange for decreasing direct support.
rural areas across europe urgently need funds for development, not just for agricultural production or environmental protection.
development, economic growth, energy security, all of which could be an opportunity for many countries in the european union, will be blocked as a result of today's decision.
i don't want to go into the functioning of the nuclear energy lobby or the gazprom lobby or any other pressure group.
it is probably because of a malfunction in the machine that my vote for mrs tzaveli's report was not recorded, because i am a strong supporter of exploiting the opportunity that shale gas offers both for the achievement of the objectives of a low-carbon economy and for economic development itself.
i am aware that there are concerns and perhaps even real dangers, and therefore it is good if the extraction of gas is carried out in compliance with high environmental standards.
i do not agree with the views of my colleagues in the conservative group, because mr sonik's report clearly states in paragraph 2 that the responsibility for shale gas extraction and energy matters lies with the member states and not with the european union.
it's strange the behaviour of this part of the house that is doing everything to make europe weaker economically and energy-wise.
it is strange that the part of the house which voted against the niki tzaveli report is violating the principles of energy solidarity in europe, it is also violating the principles of european competitiveness.
europe will become competitive when it has access to cheap, self-sufficient, independent energy resources.
i support the call for decisive action on waste management, including the prevention of illegal landfills in border areas.
on the other hand, the european commission and its individual members can create the climate for enforcing this right.
the procedure before the court of justice of the eu is one such tool and should be used by the commission to ensure the timely and correct transposition of eu legislation by member states, especially with regard to environmental matters, which are one of the most vulnerable policy areas.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment protection of natural resources is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
− the environmental impact of shale gas extraction has been of considerable interest in poland for several months, although we are still not sure about the actual resources of this raw material.
it is not just about reducing emissions and having a good economic outlook.
the issue of the conversion of energy sources should be a key one.
the shale could be a step toward our energy independence.
economic considerations and energy security in this case must clearly go hand in hand with the fulfilment of high environmental standards.
− europe is seeking to reduce co2 emissions substantially, and shale gas and other unconventional gas sources are now a potential, important and new source of supply in europe and its neighbours.
i understand all the concerns about the whole fracking process and its possible negative impact on the environment and people.
but consider this argument: if the united states, with over 150 billion cubic meters of gas produced annually, had a negative impact on the people and the environment, it would have been noticed.
the large-scale extraction of shale gas and shale oil will contribute to the diversification of energy sources in the european union.
on the other hand, environmental organisations report on the environmental risks of hydraulic fracturing.
they are therefore particularly sensitive to energy security issues.
the exploitation of shale gas is seen not only as an opportunity for economic development, but also as an opportunity to increase energy security.
at the present state of knowledge, it cannot be categorically dismissed as harmful to the environment.
in view of the above, i decided to vote in favour of the report on the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction.
- i do not support the report on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil extraction.
the report is unacceptable because it prohibits fracking in coal and drinking water sites, calls for a change in the emissions trading system to charge co2 emissions to gas extraction, and suggests that gas extraction is contrary to eu climate policy.
importantly, the parliament's position emphasises the right of member states to exploit their own natural resources and the fact that shale gas, extracted within the appropriate regulatory and legal framework, has the potential to become a new, important source of energy in europe (also in the form of lng).
the commission has already, at the level of the environment committee, reworded the vast majority of the rapporteur's sensible proposals, rejected amendments designed to create conditions for the exploration and exploitation of unconventional fossil fuels, and adopted a number of inconsistent and unfortunately sometimes absurd paragraphs, such as the statement that shale gas extraction is a threat to developing countries.
it has done a very valuable and difficult job, which has resulted in the adoption, at the level of the parliament's committee on industry, energy and research, of a report which is reasonable, balanced and, above all, respects the right of each member state to seek and exploit the sources of energy suitable for it.
mrs. tzavela has managed to defend herself against the green propaganda covering the interests of the monopolists in the conventional gas and nuclear energy markets.
- the report on industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil extraction is supported by several important arguments.
the decision on the composition of the energy mix is a matter for the member states and the principle of subsidiarity should therefore be strictly applied.
eu environmental legislation sets out certain minimum standards which may need to be improved in the light of large-scale commercial exploitation.
all these measures contribute to increasing energy independence and security.
they can also help to lower energy prices for citizens, as has been the case in the us.
− a report prepared by the committee on industry, research and energy highlights the positive aspects and potential of shale gas.
referring in particular to the shale revolution that has taken place in the united states, it calls on the european union to make full use of the opportunities created by the increased role of unconventional energy sources in global energy markets.
the report adopted today by the european parliament by niki tzaveli, mep from the epp group and member of the committee on industry and energy, gives the green light to the development of unconventional gas extraction in the eu.
the report by mr bogusław sonik of the ppe group, member of the ep environment committee, was adopted by a majority of 70 votes, but it gives the sector a de facto green light and is unfavourable to polish interests.
the current common fisheries policy has not been a success, but rather a victim of the environment, its resources, fishermen and the coastal community.
this practice is a huge cruelty, a waste, and an action that directly threatens many rare species of sharks.
closer and deeper community cooperation with kazakhstan is an opportunity for mutual benefit, particularly in view of its important role in world energy policy.
the benefits we receive from nature are not infinite, which is why it is so important to take care of their sustainable use.
recently, my office has received a lot of applications from environmental organizations and individuals.
there is no sign that the us, india or china will agree to follow europe's lead and make significant cuts in greenhouse gas emissions before the next climate conference.
even the complete elimination of industrial emissions in the eu will not change the global trend, analysts predict, without the contribution of these countries.
and there are still no rational signals as to whether this is a trend caused by human activity or whether it is natural climate change.
is there a need to further develop and strengthen it in times of crisis, or is it not better to allocate the invested funds, for example, to building the eu's energy security by diversifying sources of supply?
thus it is important that the eu, in its external action strategies, policies and instruments, takes into consideration the effects of natural disasters and changes in the climate on international security and further strengthens and develops existing instruments that can deliver humanitarian aid.
these include: human rights; the rule of law and democratisation; education; trade and investment; and energy and transport.
− the main objective of the reform of the eu's fisheries policy, the need to conserve sustainable, renewable fisheries and marine resources, as highlighted by the cypriot presidency, also applies to traditional and coastal fisheries.
the provisions of the agreement also provide opportunities to enhance social cohesion and sustainable development as an element of economic growth, stability and democratic engagement.
− the purpose of this proposal was to amend regulation (ec) no 106/2008 in order to adapt the implementation of the energy star programme to a new agreement between the united states of america and the eu (the agreement was approved by parliament in october) on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
− i hope that the energy labelling programme for office equipment will have a positive impact on the environmental awareness of office workers in particular.
i am referring to the energy star programme, which has been successful in saving energy in the office equipment market, estimated at around eur 1.8 billion.
- i am concerned about the changes taking place in georgia after the elections won by bidzine ivanishvili and his georgian dream: the closure of the pro-presidential ministers, the crackdown on the opposition and the strong rapprochement with russia, which is reflected in the revision of the energy transfer treaties from azerbaijan to turkey and europe.
it also refers to other areas of cooperation, such as modernisation, environmental protection, the fight against poverty, scientific and technical cooperation and cooperation within civil society.
importantly, the ftt could also be used as a tool to regulate markets, curb speculation and encourage sustainable economic growth.
shorter transportation also means fewer vehicles on the road and less co2 emissions, and it also means the possibility of developing local meat processing in rural areas, close to the farms.
the number of animals slaughtered, in order to meet environmental requirements and improve their efficiency, and this leads to the delivery of animals from ever greater distances.
the increasing concentration of slaughterhouses, driven by increasing veterinary, sanitary and environmental requirements, is extending the transport routes for animals for slaughter.
− i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the proposal’s aims to update existing measures in order to enable local authorities to improve the noise climate around airports in the eu within the international framework of the icao’s balanced approach on noise management.
in addition, the possible environmental benefits of this solution, such as reduced transport and better conditions for transported animals, cannot be overlooked.
i share the rapporteur’s positive assessment of the commission report on the impact of council regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport and related operations, which entered into force on 5 january 2007. however, i also feel that the report does not provide a full assessment of all the economic, social and environmental costs of animal transport.
it is an action to protect the environment and the climate.
- we must do everything to ensure that the animals are transported in a decent environment.
the key economic element of eu-russia relations is, of course, energy.
the european commission must remember, especially today, that regardless of the negotiations on a new framework agreement, there can be no question of any exemption of south stream's investments from the rules of the third energy package, including in particular from the rules on third party access to the transmission infrastructure in the european union.
our economic relations will be based on a sectoral approach, which means that the european commission must be particularly cautious and attentive to what is happening on the community market in terms of protecting competition and security of energy supply.
we can't waste that time on history.
ukraine has also done a lot to reduce its dependence on russian gas, as well as to increase energy efficiency, which is the achilles' heel of its economy.
the last urgent action the eu should take is to suspend the provisions of the energy and climate package.
the third energy package will undoubtedly be the most serious source of tension in economic relations between russia and the eu.
today, russia is threatening to raise moldova's prices if it does not withdraw from the energy community.
two months ago, unofficial statements by members of the russian government suggested that russia could challenge the third package provisions allowing for the forced ownership separation of distribution networks from gas and energy sales to the wto court.
the report strongly condemned the lack of rule of law and democracy in russia and called on the russian authorities to put an end to the climate of impunity and selective justice.
− the steel sector in europe is experiencing a crisis of declining competitiveness and rising production costs, largely due to the wrong decisions to adopt an energy and climate package mandating a reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020. in poland alone, the implementation of its provisions will increase unemployment by about 250 thousand people and increase energy prices.
if the situation does not change, there will be further closures of large furnaces and a shift of production to ukraine and india, where no climate restrictions apply.
the steel rescue programme should therefore be based on the suspension of the provisions of the energy and climate package, which is leading to the deindustrialisation of europe.