this is an important issue, especially as europe is facing a serious demographic problem, which is affecting economic development and jeopardising the sustainability of social security.
this is clear from the priorities of this presidency: we find the deepening of the internal market (with progress in areas such as public procurement, energy or knowledge with the express intention of turning knowledge into business); the deregulation and liberalization of international trade; the participation of the elderly in the labour market; and, of course, the so-called austerity defending the rapid implementation of the decisions contained in the so-called economic governance, the pact for the euro or the latest intergovernmental treaty, which aims to constitutionalize austerity and which constitutes a dangerous attack on democracy.
the danish government is seeking to solve the current economic crisis on the basis of these proposals by taking measures to achieve sustainable economic growth capable of creating jobs and wealth on the european continent.
a europe that is financially disciplined, that exploits its full economic potential and puts renewable energy at the centre of the debate, a europe that is above all safe for its citizens.
but also because of the approach to the union of stability and sustainable growth, that is, starting from the budgetary discipline which should be the indisputable basis of the future agreement, the need is emphasized to promote measures aimed at growth, which is intended to be sustainable in the long term, which allows for greater convergence between the member states, greater competitiveness of our economy and, of course, job creation.
- i voted in favour of the joint resolution of the european parliament expressing its doubts as to the need for an intergovernmental agreement on a budgetary stability union whose main objectives could, for the most part, be more adequately and effectively achieved by means of measures consistent with eu law, in order to provide a firm and sustainable response to the current economic crisis as soon as possible.
several colleagues from the epp have said here that it was a majority that passed these laws and this constitution in hungary, but they forget one thing: democracy is not only that the majority wins, it is also that the majority changes, in other words, democracy is also the sustainability of democracy.
the european institutions, which are now so concerned about the sustainability of our economies, must also be concerned about the sustainability of our democracies.
durban leaves an even more fragile kyoto protocol, covering less than a fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions.
unfortunately, only one thing seems to be holding back an even greater rise in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the earth's atmosphere: the deepening capitalist crisis, the recession and the consequent decline in economic activity.
and it is in this context that it would be even more important - it is even more important - to change profoundly the approach that has been taken to the problem of climate change.
in particular, the so-called flexibility instruments and the carbon market must be called into question.
we leave you with one question, commissioner: how can you guarantee that instead of investing in low-carbon processes and technologies, we will not have a business-as-usual scenario, guaranteed by the purchase of emission allowances from those who cannot use them?
the durban platform is flexible and offers the european union an opportunity to combine the fight against climate change with economic growth.
international trade must also be guided by a logic of complementarity and not by a logic of competition between producers, between products and between countries, as is currently the case, for reasons of environmental, economic and social sustainability.
in the current international context, marked by the deregulation and liberalisation of world trade, the standardisation of production methods, the intensification and homogenisation of production, the consequent loss of traditional production methods and products and the reduction of biodiversity in its many aspects, gi's are an instrument that can help to preserve and respect the characteristics and quality of certain local and regional productions.
since the benefits of harmonizing these regulations are tangible in road safety, environmental protection and trade, i voted in favour of this report.
− in the context of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), the world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations seeks to draw up uniform regulatory lines that take account of road safety, environmental protection and trade between the different states.
the benefits of harmonising these regulations are tangible in road safety, environmental protection and trade.
this is mainly because bureaucracy is eliminated (because unece approvals are considered ec approvals, for example), but also because the standard is objectively raised (quality, safety, environmental protection, reliability, etc.)
- i voted in favour of this recommendation by the united nations economic commission for europe because i believe that the harmonization of the regulations applicable to vehicles contributes to improving road safety and environmental protection in the signatory countries.
in addition to the fact that in both cases eu approval contributes to road safety and environmental protection, it is important to stress that these unece regulations will allow the same standards to be applied in many countries, thus reducing red tape and helping european industry to compete more widely and more easily.
− in the context of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), the world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations seeks to draw up uniform regulatory lines that take account of road safety, environmental protection and trade between the different states.
any partnership with icao is beneficial because it is a specialised agency of the united nations, with 190 member states already cooperating in the fields of aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection.
the signatory states shall cooperate in the fields of aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection.
it is essential for the eu to strengthen its relationship with icao by concluding this memorandum of cooperation in order to allow for greater coordination of its activities in the field of aviation safety as well as air traffic management and environmental protection.
i hope that in the near future this cooperation can be extended to other provisions in the fields of aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection, which should be annexed to this memorandum of cooperation.
the scope and areas of cooperation now agreed are well explained in the memorandum (and summarised in the european parliament's recommendation) and in the future other provisions in the areas of safety, environmental protection and air traffic management may be added as annexes to this mou.
icao, established by the 1994 chicago convention, is a specialized agency of the united nations and has 190 member states that cooperate in the following areas: aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection.
the mc shall not replace or prejudice other forms of cooperation between the parties involved and shall establish closer cooperation in the areas of aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection.
− the international civil aviation organization (icao), which operates within the united nations, aims to cooperate in the fields of aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection.
− this memorandum of cooperation, signed in may last year, establishes the development of relations between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao), the un's specialised body in the fields of safety, air traffic management and environmental protection.
− to combat climate change, to prevent environmental damage and to maintain control over the valuable resources of electronic equipment, we need higher collection rates, high recycling rates and appropriate recycling standards, strong legislation against illegal exports, greater producer responsibility, better designed equipment and a fair distribution of responsibilities and costs between producers, consumers and public authorities.
these new rules will improve the collection and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment and prevent its illegal transfer to other countries.
to this end, eu countries will have to increase the collection and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).
− i am pleased to note that the waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directive 2002/96/ec has been subject to an extensive review to correct the inconsistent and contradictory elements contained therein.
the review therefore aims to eliminate excessive and unnecessary bureaucratic burdens (technical, legal and administrative problems) which result in costly efforts by market players and member states, continuous environmental damage, reduced innovation in waste collection and treatment, lack of a level playing field or even distortion of competition.
of the various objectives listed in the report, i would like to highlight those which carry the most weight, namely cost reduction through the elimination of all unnecessary red tape without compromising environmental safety; further efforts to make the weee directive more effective and applicable through an increase in the rate of compliance and reduction of parasitism; and finally reducing the impact of the collection, treatment and recovery of weee on the environment in order to maximise the net benefit to society.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
secondly, waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) is the waste that has grown the most in the union and therefore faces a number of new challenges.
the amendments now agreed will make the directive more effective, reduce red tape, increase its applicability and protect the environment, and for that i obviously voted in favour.
- i voted in favour of the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment, because it contains important measures to better manage this waste and thus protect the environment and combat climate change, by setting high collection and recycling rates, as well as strict rules to combat illegal exports and hold producers accountable.
− waste electrical and electronic equipment has grown exponentially across the union and its treatment and conversion is now a particularly important problem in the european context.
in addition to the environmental and public health concerns, which are of concern in themselves, the non-reuse of raw materials leads to inefficiency and additional costs for the production system, which could be offset by better use of the materials used in the equipment in question.
− the exponential growth of the market for electrical and electronic equipment (eee) in recent decades (especially mobile phones, computers and televisions), due to technological innovations and very aggressive promotional campaigns, has led to an increase in the tonnes of waste from this equipment, which, not being collected separately, end up in open landfills or exported illegally.
this situation, in addition to the environmental problems it causes (threatening human health), is a huge waste of materials - some of them noble like gold, platinum and silver - that could contribute to the recovery of the world economy and reduce the extraction of natural resources.
this recommendation for second reading, drawn up by mr karl-heinz florenz, concerns the council's position at first reading on the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on such waste.
since it is imperative to implement measures to encourage the separate collection, recycling and/or recovery of these materials, i voted in favour of this report and i hope that the new directive will be implemented as soon as possible, thus helping to improve public health and prevent the illegal export of weee to countries where there is no environmental control.
− this is the final stage of the adoption of a directive laying down measures to protect the environment and human health by preventing or reducing adverse impacts arising from the generation and management of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).
the reality is that waste flows are increasing across the european union and that it is therefore necessary to put in place approaches to waste collection and treatment with the aim of increasing recycling and reuse, particularly as regards secondary raw materials.
the report aims to prevent the illegal export of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
in recent decades, this type of waste has been the fastest growing in the european union, and is often illegally dumped in open landfills in developing countries.
this scenario aggravates the eu's development at the expense of the consumption of natural resources and the health and environment of the poorest countries.
consumers will be able to take very small electrical and electronic waste, such as mobile phones, to various retail outlets without the obligation to purchase new items.
however, i do not think that nanomaterials should be treated as normal as other compounds, because they are extremely hazardous to health and the environment and can be equally dangerous even in the recycling process.
- i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading with a view to adopting the european parliament and council directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).
− directive 2002/96/ec, in force since 13 february 2003, on waste electrical and electronic equipment, is currently under review.
i therefore voted in favour, taking into account the recommendation for second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
− this directive aims to contribute to the reuse, recycling and recovery of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) by aiming at sustainable production and consumption of the goods concerned.
i am voting in favour of this report because it supports the development of european standards for the collection and treatment of weee, the creation of ecodesign requirements to facilitate the reuse, dismantling and recovery of weee and the treatment of goods in good environmental conditions.
finally, i believe that appropriate facilities should be set up for the delivery of weee, including public collection centres, where private individuals can make a positive contribution by delivering waste.
- i am voting in favour because this report contributes, through the sustainable use of biocidal products, to the protection of human health, animal health and the environment.
this regulation will contribute to greater legal certainty and transparency in the use of active substances and to ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, and will improve the functioning of the internal market by harmonising the provisions concerning the placing on the market and use of biocidal products.
- i voted in favour of the report on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, as i considered that the commitment reached includes measures to ensure the protection of human and animal health and the safe and sustainable use of these products, in particular requirements with regard to environmental and health issues, research and innovation and the internal market.
once again, as i have said on other occasions, the rules on this matter must be uniform and valid throughout the eu, otherwise we will not be effectively ensuring the protection of all european consumers and, not least, environmental protection.
biocidal products, which are products used to control harmful organisms such as bacteria and parasites, can be used to protect both human and animal health and therefore require clear regulation at the level of a framework directive to enforce their sustainable use.
i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation because it will help to protect the health of citizens and animals and to create a better environment.
however, their uncontrolled use can also be harmful to health and the environment.
among the positive aspects, there is a clearer concern to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, as well as labelling issues with non-misleading consumer information, such as in the case of the possible use of nanomaterials.
− this document updates the european rules on the authorisation, marketing and use of biocidal products in the european union, making them more restrictive and safer for the environment, public and animal health.
exceptions to this rule shall be permitted only if the substance is absolutely necessary to prevent or control a serious danger to public or animal health or the environment.
i believe that the rules governing biocides should be governed by the public interest, taking account of human and animal health and the environment, and i voted in favour of this.
- i voted in favour of this report on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products because the safe use of these products requires the adoption of a framework directive on the sustainable use of these products.
the positive effects of the framework directive on the sustainable use of pesticides recommend the adoption of an equivalent standard for biocidal products.
however, following the analysis carried out by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, there are still a number of technical points which need to be improved in order to ensure the adoption of a clearer legislative text and thus more suitable for introducing effective regulation.
finally, i believe that this regulation will contribute to greater legal certainty and transparency in the use of active substances, ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and improve the functioning of the internal market by harmonising the provisions on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products.
- i welcome the proposed measures to increase the capacity of farms and to save energy in installations, farming practices and transport.
to this end, it is essential to use energy efficiency programmes and to research renewable energy production on farms or locally (wind, solar, biogas, geothermal, etc.).
given the importance of water in agricultural production, the eu should support member states in providing improved water storage systems for agriculture, including improved ground water storage and water collection capacities in dry areas, as a precaution against changes in rainfall patterns due to climate change.
- i support this new own-initiative report which, in a context of deep economic and financial crisis with growing repercussions for farmers, identifies problems upstream of agricultural production, with an impact on the increase in the costs of agricultural production factors purchased in the fields of energy, machinery, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds and water.
the aim of this report, which suggests measures to be taken in the context of the next reform of the cap, is to analyse the structures and markets which are aimed at creating new strategies to assist farmers in reducing the costs of the factors of production, taking into account their autonomy and their incomes, leading to a more efficient and sustainable use of the means of production.
i also agree with the rapporteur that farmers need to be supported not only to improve their performance in the agronomic and environmental fields, but also to better respond to the climate, environmental and economic challenges, in particular by adopting greening measures, and to focus on greater resilience to climate instability, better soil health and lower susceptibility to disease.
it has an important social and environmental function which must be taken into account and deserves protection.
it is not sustainable to have an economic activity whose factors of production have increased by 60% in a decade, while output has increased by only 25%, as has happened with energy costs.
energy efficiency must be a priority in the new cap.
finally, i welcome the recognition of the need to support farmers in the greening measures provided for in the new cap, so that they can meet the new environmental and competitive challenges.
we also consider it important to improve the analysis of the reasons for extreme market fluctuations and to seek to clarify the interactions between speculation and agricultural markets, as well as between energy markets and food prices.
it also proposes energy-saving measures, reducing the use of fertilisers, pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers, and local production of crops for animal feed.
while producer prices have risen by about 25% in the last decade, energy costs have risen by about 60%, fertilisers and soil conditioners by about 100%, seeds and animal feed by about 30%, non-residential building costs by about 20% and plant protection products and other pesticides by 13%.
i support the initiatives in this report, particularly those relating to greater transparency in the prices of production factors, increased competition throughout the food supply chain, new incentives for investment in renewable energy production and the promotion of rural development programmes with an increased focus on greening the common agricultural policy (cap).
i also believe that it is crucial that special attention be paid to the outermost regions in order to ensure that the agriculture of the respective european regions is increasingly sustainable and competitive in the framework of the cap for the period 2014-2020.
in writing.
i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure and replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the ppe, alde, greens/efa, s&d and gue/ngl groups, for the following reasons: 1. we all recognise that agriculture is a strategic sector in the context of the european union's economy and that, in order to respond to future challenges in terms of food, natural resources and the environment, a more or less thorough reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) is essential.
− space policy is one of the key elements of the europe 2020 strategy, contributing to the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by creating highly skilled jobs (currently employing over 31 000 people), stimulating innovation and improving citizens' well-being and safety (through enhanced transport safety, civil protection, the development of social services for the elderly and disabled, etc.).
i support the development of an effective space policy that can respond to the major global challenges and which cannot fail to bring about the completion of the galileo, egnos and gmes programmes, bringing enormous benefits at social, environmental, economic and strategic levels.
space solutions are key to addressing the major challenges facing today's societies, such as natural disasters, climate change or environmental management.
the commission has also been involved in the development of the gmes programme, which will provide earth observation data to monitor climate change and global security via the sentinel satellites.
both have valuable objectives and bring important gains for security, climate change monitoring and the european economy itself, and are therefore part of a strategic challenge for the european union.
this is the case of gmes, which aims at global monitoring of the environment and security, and whose scope includes earth observation and the extraction of accurate data useful for the development of military operations, even if disguised as border surveillance, support for the union's external action, as well as risk prevention, emergency management and coastal surveillance.
in the context of the first project, satellite navigation, an initial open service, an initial public regulated service and an initial search and rescue service will already be provided from 2014. in the context of gmes, the aim is to collect earth observation data to monitor climate change and global security.
this market is highly dynamic today: the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the latter has as one of its objectives the overall monitoring of the environment and security, which will be carried out through the observation of the planet and the extraction of accurate and useful data and in the framework of border surveillance actions, support for the union's external action, maritime surveillance, complex emergencies, humanitarian aid and civil protection.
i stress the ambitious and necessary target of reducing this waste by 50% by 2025. the sharing of good practice at both european and national level, as suggested by comagri, the training campaigns proposed in schools and the possible choice of 2013 as the european year against food waste, can contribute greatly to achieving the objectives we have set ourselves.
- knowing that an increasing amount of healthy and edible food - by some estimates up to 50% - is lost annually in europe along all links of the agri-food chain, including in some cases at the consumer level, turning into waste, it is in my view fundamental to support this memorandum so that this catastrophe can be avoided.
i support this report in the sense that we must avoid reducing food waste.
if we consider that reducing food waste is an important step towards fighting world hunger and improving the nutritional level of the population, it is unacceptable that almost 50% of healthy and edible food is lost annually in europe, along all links of the agri-food chain.
the growing trend in global food waste needs to be countered by additional preventive measures, guidelines and strategies to improve the efficiency and sustainability of the agri-food chain.
thereby contributing to the achievement of the millennium development goals, in particular with regard to reducing poverty and hunger by around 50% by 2015. finally, food waste and the resulting production of food waste also represents an environmental and ethical problem, with economic and social costs and implications in the context of the internal market, both for businesses and consumers.
secondly, i would like to stress the recent words of commissioner potocnik on this subject, with which i could not agree more: we have a moral, environmental and economic responsibility to solve the problem of food waste in the european union.
i therefore support the idea of proclaiming 2013 the european year against food waste.
in addition to the comprehensive diagnosis and the impressive figures presented, the report proposes a number of measures to reduce food waste by 2025. i would just like to highlight the ones concerning the expiry dates and the initiatives to encourage sustainable production on a small and medium scale, linked to local and regional markets and consumption.
the 50% reduction in waste by 2020, proposed by the commission, seems to me to be a feasible target.
- i voted in favour of the report on the prevention of food waste, because it sets out measures to reduce food waste by 50% by 2025, thus contributing to food security, a more efficient food chain and the fight against poverty.
- according to european commission figures, there are 43 million people in the european union at risk of food poverty, making food waste an even more shocking reality.
according to some figures from 1974 to the present, it is estimated that food waste in the world has increased by 50%, and the fao estimates that europeans and north americans waste between 95 and 115 kg of food per capita per year.
this waste occurs along the entire chain from production to consumers.
this report by salvatore caronna looks at this issue, namely what strategies the european union should adopt to improve the efficiency of the food chain and thus avoid food waste.
excess food production has enormous environmental costs, from wasted energy, water consumption, depleted natural resources, to greenhouse gas emissions.
i welcome and support the proclamation of 2014 as the european year against food waste in order to raise awareness among the general public, and i hope that the proposed measures will be properly implemented in order to achieve the goal of halving food waste by 2025.
in writing.
- this report addresses a growing problem, which is certainly worrying: food waste.
the scale of the problem of food waste today is inseparable from the capitalist mode of production, the intensification of agriculture and the increase in the size of the production and consumption chains.
it is important to note that small and medium-sized farming, short supply chains, local production and consumption can reduce waste and increase efficiency.
each european citizen produces 179 kg of waste per year and it is estimated that by 2020 this figure could increase by 40%.
the report sets out concrete measures to halve this waste by 2025. the double-expiry labelling (with the expiry dates for sale and consumption), the modification of the packaging size to better match the quantities, the possibility of bulk sales, sales at a discount for products that are close to expiry or damaged, awareness campaigns and education programmes at different levels of education are some of these measures.
the report introduces measures to reduce food waste and increase the efficiency of food production, and i voted in favour of it.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that food waste is becoming unacceptable and that we must do everything we can to change the current situation by adopting, on a voluntary basis, more sustainable behaviour and appropriate regulation to combat losses in harvesting, storage, transport under unsafe conditions, packaging errors and the bad habits of the final consumer in the purchase and use of food products.
in a context of crisis at european level, in which waste of resources is unacceptable, of exponential growth in developing countries with new and increased food needs, and of climate change, which causes irreversible crop losses, the problem dealt with in this report must be a priority for the eu.
it should also be stressed that, in addition to the environmental damage caused by the production of unused food, the costs of treatment and disposal of the resulting waste and the loss of revenue for the producing undertakings should also be taken into account.
each european citizen produces 179 kg of waste per year and it is estimated that by 2020 this figure could increase by 40%.
the report sets out concrete measures to halve this waste by 2025. the double-expiry labelling (with the expiry dates for sale and consumption), the modification of the packaging size to better match the quantities, the possibility of bulk sales, sales at a discount for products that are close to expiry or damaged, awareness campaigns and education programmes at different levels of education are some of these measures.
the report introduces measures to reduce food waste and increase the efficiency of food production, and i voted in favour of it.
- in a context of resource scarcity, food waste must be tackled.
it is estimated to have increased by about 50% since 1974; at the moment, according to a recent study, europeans and north americans waste about 95 to 115 kg per capita per year, while in sub-saharan africa, the waste is about 6 to 11 kg.
on the other hand, if we distinguish the various stages of the supply chain, waste in western countries occurs mainly at the points of distribution and consumption, while in less developed economies it is felt most acutely at the points of production, management, storage and treatment.
− articles 191 and 192 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provide that the union's policy on the environment shall contribute to the prudent and rational use of natural resources and to the improvement of the quality of human health.
i believe that it is essential that measures be taken to reduce food waste, given that 79 million people in the european union live below the poverty line and 16 million receive food aid through charitable institutions.
i agree with this report, because i believe that a thorough analysis of the entire food chain is needed to identify the food sectors that generate the most waste, to establish common objectives at international level with the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) on food and to facilitate the application of discounts to products that are nearing the end of their shelf life.
the emergence of brics offers new opportunities for the european union, but also major challenges to achieve its purpose of contributing to a global order based on the rule of law, the universality of human rights, sustainable development, to achieve human security and peace for all.
and it is clear that in the brics, whose societies are today genuine democracies and have deep-rooted links with european culture, as is the case with brazil, which shares with portugal, my country, history, language, culture and much of the popular idiosyncrasies, there is extraordinary potential to develop partnerships and cooperation in all fields from trade to applied scientific development, industry, environmental and climate protection, renewable energy, the fight against poverty and the promotion of democracy.
i would like to say that access to renewable energy must really be a european objective, but not just a european but also a global one.
this progress was unthinkable 20 years ago, and so setting 2015 as our target for access to renewable energy is absolutely right.
but in europe too, we have based renewable energy and its financing largely on full user payment.
the eu, while upholding its principles and values, cannot ignore the increasingly important role of these emerging economies and must work together to tackle the problems affecting the planet, such as climate change, terrorism, sustainable development, access to raw materials, political stability and global security.
this is an important point, and one which is independent of the subjects dealt with in this report: the eu must remain at the forefront of this fight for greater equality, seeking to improve the living conditions of the poorest in a sustainable way, supporting them when their difficulties result from circumstantial or structural conditions.
sustainability, coherence and complementarity of humanitarian aid actions.
i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling on the commission to submit a new proposal to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in this context, it considers that the new nutrition claim proposed by the commission now containing x% less of [name of nutrient] to be included in the annex to regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 is contrary to the purpose and content of the basic legal act, as it is ambiguous, misleading and confusing for the average consumer, and therefore requests the commission to withdraw it and to submit to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety an amended draft of measures.
following the examination of the proposed amendments to the draft regulation, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety identified a number of provisions which, if accepted, could mislead consumers as to the characteristics of products available on the market and therefore opposed the adoption of the regulation.
i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that, following the arguments put forward by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, these provisions would violate the fundamental principles of consumer protection.
in this respect, i am voting in favour of this report which opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation amending regulation no 1924/2006, and calls on the commission to submit a draft with new measures to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament.
i think, however, that it would have been desirable to have reached an agreement within the framework of eu law, including measures for economic recovery and the promotion of sustainable growth and employment.
although it criticises the agreement on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union, in particular for the absence of measures to promote sustainable growth and employment, the truth is that it eventually accepts it.
− i voted in favour of this resolution, which contains the european parliament's conclusions on the european council of 30 january 2012. i would stress from these conclusions the recognition by the european parliament that fiscal stability is an important component in resolving the current crisis but that economic recovery requires measures to strengthen solidarity and to promote sustainable growth and employment.
- i regret that more ideas on environmental monitoring have not been adopted.
the minimum reporting requirement therefore requires the commission to monitor more closely the transposition of the environmental protection directive by member states through criminal law in order to ensure that it is carried out promptly and effectively.
it is important that comprehensive waste management plans are implemented within the framework of european legislation.
however, one issue that is giving rise to an increasing number of petitions is the apparent inability of public authorities in many countries to deal satisfactorily with the problem of waste management.
judging from the petitions received, this concern is growing in many local communities, indicating that waste management is becoming a serious political and social problem.
the resolution calls on the member states to speed up the transposition of the waste framework directive into national law and urges the national authorities to implement the measures essential to combating illegal waste disposal.
the commission is also called upon to monitor carefully the transposition of the environmental protection directive by the member states in order to ensure that it is carried out promptly and effectively.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the measures it contains will help to improve the implementation of waste management policy in the future.
− one of the issues that has been generating an increasing number of petitions is environmental issues, which is the main group of petitions received, with waste related petitions representing an important subgroup within these.
this seems obvious to me, as the waste problem affects citizens across the eu very directly, particularly in the authorisation procedure for new waste management facilities or the operation of existing ones, followed by concern about waste management in general - the not in my backyard (nimby) syndrome!
it also appears that the failure of public authorities in many member states to address the problem of waste management satisfactorily may be a factor in the increase.
i voted in favour of this report which, on the basis of 114 petitions which fundamentally point to the existence of deficiencies in waste management and the frequent failure of member states to comply with their legal obligations, recommends that member states should in future improve the implementation of waste management policy and speed up the transposition of the waste framework directive into their national law, and that the national authorities should implement the necessary and appropriate measures to combat illegal waste disposal.
- i voted in favour of the report on the application of the waste directive, because the member states must make every effort to transpose this directive as quickly as possible and to ensure full compliance with all its requirements and all the objectives set out in the framework of european legislation with a view to protecting the environment and public health.
- one of the great problems of our time is how to manage the waste generated by industries, hospitals, our homes and the whole dynamic of modern life.
this waste, created every day, must be properly treated to allow for efficient and sustainable management that preserves the environment.
although the responsibility for waste management lies with the states, there are wide discrepancies in the way it is handled in the eu, and the report recommends, and i think it is right, that european guidelines be adopted in this area, which will allow for greater harmonisation of waste management policies.
− in a modern society where the 'use and throw away' principle has gained ground, sustainable waste management is making progress, as was clear from the discussion and vote on the report on waste from electrical and electronic equipment in the previous plenary session.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of waste water and the use of water-based products.
the citizens have a right to know how their waste is treated.
human health and the environment are at stake.
in the context of economic crisis, we cannot waste resources.
it is therefore imperative to reuse, recover and recycle waste.
i voted in favour of this report because it has significant advantages both for environmental protection and for human health.
− the report addresses the problem of the application of the waste directive and related directives in the eu member states, starting from complaints and petitions submitted to the european parliament by groups of citizens, in particular from greece.
the rapporteur makes a number of points which we consider to be positive, relating, in general, to waste management, environmental protection and public awareness.
the report makes it clear that waste control is a public responsibility, but is often undertaken by private parties.
however, this directive has a problem in not distinguishing between toxic waste and ordinary waste, which has led in some cases to situations where large companies produce toxic waste in ways that are not compatible with the overriding interests of public health and environmental protection.
however, one issue that is giving rise to an increasing number of petitions is the apparent inability of public authorities in many countries to deal satisfactorily with the problem of waste management.
it is clear to everyone that not addressing these issues and not prioritising efforts in this direction has negative effects, not only on the health and well-being of people, but also on the viability of the planet and its environment in the broad sense.
however, lessons must be drawn from these examples and the recommendations contained in this report should therefore contribute to improving the implementation of waste management policy in the future.
- i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on member states to speed up the transposition of the waste framework directive into national law and urges national authorities to implement essential measures to combat illegal waste dumping.
in this european parliament resolution, on the issues raised by the petitioners relating to the implementation of the waste directive and related directives in the member states of the european union, the commission is also asked to monitor carefully the transposition of the environmental protection directive by the member states in order to ensure that it is carried out promptly and effectively.
- the european parliament has received several petitions, initiated by groups of community citizens, highlighting local problems in waste management.
it is therefore necessary to identify, following the field trips of some meps, the points where the waste directive can be improved and those where it has not been properly applied.
− the european parliament has been receiving a number of petitions, with environmental issues being the ones that arouse the greatest interest from citizens, in particular those directly related to waste management.
i agree with this report, as i believe that member states should implement an advanced waste management strategy and ensure greater compliance with existing legislation.
i also believe that european governments should involve citizens living near waste management infrastructure, strengthen cooperation with local and regional authorities and establish strong links with european agencies with strong knowledge of waste management, such as the european commission's directorate-general for the environment, the european environment agency or the european network for the implementation and enforcement of environmental legislation.
- this report sets out some positive lines, notably by denouncing abusive situations, and at the same time presents proposals for reducing and implementing the so-called waste hierarchy.
we stress, however, the wrong perspective of almost exclusive individual responsibility for the environmental situation we are living in (a panacea which does not solve, in itself, a problem which is systemic), arguing that waste management is a public responsibility for private profits (it is not unusual that it praises two multinationals responsible for this management in 2/3 of the member states, without relating the extraordinary profits they make and the increase in complaints throughout europe).
the distinction between toxic and ordinary waste is still missing, which allows large companies to pollute without restrictions, based on studies that consider the average waste produced per individual, putting households and companies in the same case.
waste management is fundamental to the protection of the environment and human health.
but we must not forget that the serious environmental problems do not stem from isolated acts, but are rather the result of the capitalist system which, in its quest for maximum profit, looks no further than the means to achieve it.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
- i support this report because it seeks to reinforce the eu's political will to achieve universal access to energy by 2030. to this end, there must also be a financial commitment to help achieve this.
the european union has been very active in development aid and i think it should continue to do so, with particular attention to energy, especially since the un has already stressed the importance of this area in the fight against inequalities in the world.
− i voted in favour of the report on eu development cooperation to achieve the goal of universal access to energy by 2030 because it contains proposals to improve the mainstreaming of the united nations target of universal access to modern and sustainable energy services by 2030 in the european union's development and cooperation policies.
- widespread access to energy sources is not yet a reality worldwide.
in many areas, people face serious difficulties in accessing and having access to energy in sufficient quantity and quality to ensure a comfortable life in which energy is no longer a major concern for households.
to this end, it should seek to help the countries and populations most in need and not only provide access to energy but, where possible, enhance the possibilities for self-management and self-generation by aid recipients.
without more and better access to energy, poverty in many parts of the world will be hard to eradicate.
they should be required to make good use of the funds received and to make efforts to extend access to energy to their citizens, in particular the most deprived.
- the western world considers access to energy as a right, like water.
however, there are many countries where access to energy remains a mirage, especially in india and on the african continent.
it is therefore imperative to adopt investment catalysts to achieve the 2030 objectives of universal access to energy.
the report under review, by norbert neuser, focuses on the need for cooperation within the european union to achieve the above objective and could not be more timely, given that we are at the beginning of the year 2012, which has been designated by the un as the year of renewable energy for all.
i welcome the measures proposed, in particular the encouragement of private investment and the inclusion of universal access to energy as one of the millennium development goals from 2015. the focus on energy efficiency and green energy production is key.
i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, and i hope that very soon the eu will finance the projects of private individuals for the installation of equipment for the production of energy from renewable sources.
- this report addresses the issue of promoting access to energy in developing countries, within the framework of the eu's cooperation policy.
the report makes some pertinent remarks on the scale of the problem of energy poverty and the negative implications for the achievement of development objectives.
the importance attached to the need to adapt energy supply solutions to the specific conditions of developing countries, by making use of decentralized solutions, renewable energies and the autonomy of these countries, seems equally correct to us.
the attempt to interfere with the sovereign choices of developing countries by imposing models identical to those of the eu, of deregulation and liberalisation of markets (market-oriented reforms in the energy sector, public-private partnerships, etc.)
is notorious, which has led to situations of exclusion from access to energy in europe.
− the report considers that access to modern energy services is a fundamental condition for poverty reduction and sustainable human development and that without access to these services, entire communities are condemned to a life of poverty.
it also considered that access to modern energy promotes school attendance and education, both by facilitating communication and by facilitating access to basic needs.
modern fuels also improve environmental sustainability.
− access to modern energy services is a key condition for poverty reduction and sustainable human development.
energy services impact on all aspects of people's lives and livelihoods, and without access to these services, entire communities are condemned to a life of poverty.
the importance of access to energy requires greater attention from the international community.
the two main mechanisms for eu cooperation on energy access are the european development fund (edf) and the eu energy facility.
the eu energy facility, established in 2005, is a co-financing instrument open to submission by governmental and non-governmental entities.
it is crucial to step up political will and financial commitment if the eu is to play a key role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030.
in writing.
− this report deals with the european union's development cooperation to achieve the goal of universal access to energy by 2030. access to modern energy services is a key condition for poverty reduction and sustainable human development.
energy services impact on all aspects of people's lives and livelihoods, and without access to these services, entire communities are condemned to a life of poverty.
the importance of access to energy requires greater attention from the international community.
in this connection, and in view of the measures proposed in this document to pursue the objective of universal access to energy, i voted in favour of this report.
− in september 2010, the goal of universal access to energy by 2030 was set by the united nations secretary-general ban ki moon.
in fact, access to energy is a basic condition for the pursuit of many other millennium development goals.
on the one hand, because this makes it possible to harmonize the objectives of the community institutions with the objectives of the un, and on the other hand, because access to energy can, in so far as it improves the basic conditions of production, have, in general terms, a multiplier effect on the aid granted.
− access to modern energy services is a key condition for poverty reduction and sustainable human development, impacting on all aspects of people's lives and therefore requiring greater attention from the international community.
the european union must cooperate and contribute to financing the poorest in access to energy.
the energy facility is the eu's largest financing mechanism for energy cooperation.
however, when compared to the funding gap in energy access or the funding of the necessary aid, the size of this fund is quite small.
thus, if the eu shows and intensifies political will and financial commitment, it can play a key role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030.
in writing.
- this report addresses the issue of promoting access to energy in developing countries, within the framework of the eu's cooperation policy.
the report makes some pertinent remarks on the scale of the problem of energy poverty and the negative implications for the achievement of development objectives.
it is also worth mentioning the importance attached to the need to adapt energy supply solutions to the specific conditions of developing countries, making the most of decentralised solutions, renewable energies and the autonomy of these countries.
the attempt to interfere in the sovereign choices of developing countries by imposing models identical to those of the eu, of deregulation and liberalisation of markets, which have led to situations of exclusion in access to energy in several countries and have allowed states to be deprived of this important strategic sector, is notorious.
− eu competition policy is not only a fundamental and truly structural policy of the european legal framework, but also the foundation of a successful internal market and a sustainable and competitive economy.
in addition, the energy market and the internet and new technologies deserve particular attention from competition policy.
despite the progress made in its operation, there are still many areas to be improved, such as the control of state aid that distorts markets and is only acceptable in an initial situation as a response to the crisis, the fight against monopolies, transparency in the functioning of the banking sector, public procurement, the energy market, air transport, etc.
it advocates market and competition advancement in the service, energy, transport and other sectors.
this implies an awareness that fisheries are not limited to their traditional extraction, processing and marketing activities, because, in addition to these activities and their socioeconomic value, fisheries play a significant role in the historical, cultural, recreational, tourist, scientific, energy, environmental, educational and other fields, producing public goods for the benefit of society and which must be taken into account in the cfp's financing.
a third objective is to highlight how fisheries as such and integrated into the integrated maritime policy contribute to the rio+20 summit objectives of job creation and poverty eradication and to the european union's 2020 strategy, promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth through its increasingly scientific basis, ecosystem structuring and vocational training.
the deep economic and social crisis affecting the fishing sector, the result of a policy whose central orientation has in many cases been reduced to the indiscriminate killing of vessels, jeopardises the release and full exploitation of the sector's enormous potential in a number of areas, such as the economic, social, historical and cultural, scientific, educational and environmental fields, among others.
the advocacy of an increasing market orientation of the cfp and the gradual elimination of public support - the general philosophy that inspires the reform - forgets that the market does not recognise, and does not properly reward, many of the so-called positive environmental and social externalities for which less competitive segments of the fleet are responsible from a strictly economic point of view.
the development of a community programme to support small-scale fishing, which, by combining various instruments, particularly financial instruments, will respond to the specific problems of this sector and support sustainable management of the fisheries concerned.
− on 17 march 2008, the council adopted regulation (ec) no 241/2008 on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau for a period of four years, renewable by tacit agreement unless one of the parties denounces it.
it has also proven to be relevant to the needs of guinea-bissau, both as an important contribution to macroeconomic and budgetary stability and in terms of the national fisheries policy, as it provides financial means for the implementation of important measures to support the economic development and sustainability of the sector.
i commend this protocol because it allows the activity of tuna (spain, france, portugal), shrimp (spain, italy, greece, portugal), fish and octopus (spain, italy, greece) fishing vessels in exchange for payments of eur 7 million per year, 35% of which will be used to help guinea-bissau develop sustainable and responsible fishing.
despite the specificities surrounding the negotiation of this new protocol, i think it is important to stress that the scientific opinion assessing the sustainability of exploitation of fisheries resources in guinea-bissau's waters, in the light of the fishing effort currently being exerted, points to its sustainability for several species.
it means that both parties to the agreement will be able to benefit mutually and economically from a healthy relationship that contributes greatly to the economic sustainability of that african country.
− on 17 march 2008, the council adopted a regulation on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau, in force for a period of four years, renewable tacitly, unless one of the parties denounces it.
the ppp has also proven to be relevant to the needs of guinea-bissau, both as a significant contribution to macroeconomic and fiscal stability and in terms of the national fisheries policy, providing financial means for the implementation of important measures to support the economic development and sustainability of the sector (according to the evaluation report, it contributed on average to 7,3% of annual government revenues and to around 88% of budgeted fisheries expenditure), and having a particular impact on the reduction of unreported and unregulated fishing and on the sector's compliance with eu health conditions in terms of trade in fishery products, which are important conditions for the development of a national fisheries sector.
the new financial compensation amounts to €7 million per year to support the fisheries policy and the sustainability of marine resources in guinea-bissau, and €500,000 to improve the health conditions in the fisheries sector.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
bluetongue, also known as bluetongue, is a disease which mainly affects ruminants such as sheep, goats and cattle and can take the form of an epidemic when environmental and climatic conditions are favourable, in particular in late summer and early autumn.
the differences in approaches initially expressed were overcome by an open discussion between the three institutions and a strong sense of responsibility which did not lose sight of the real purpose of the exercise, namely to give the dairy sector new instruments to ensure sustainability and to strengthen the organisation of producers in the dairy sector.
the milk package will also play an important role in regulating the supply of quality cheese under a geographical indication, which brings benefits in terms of added value and sustainability, particularly in vulnerable regions.
it will continue to promote intensive, export-oriented production, which puts food safety and quality and environmental sustainability at risk.
the debate on the regulation of the dairy sector in the perspective of an economically, socially, environmentally and territorially sustainable sector thus remains open.
the big european economic groups, the multinationals that are the carriers, and not only those with a large distribution network, are the winners, as they conquer new markets and gain access to cheap labour, as well as the possibility of circumventing social, labour and environmental standards in force in european countries.
models that threaten environmental sustainability, the viability of regional and local markets, food sovereignty and that degrade food quality and safety.
europeans are bound by stringent and burdensome standards of quality and food safety, as well as agri-environmental and animal welfare standards, which considerably increase the cost of production, without the required certification and labelling protecting them sufficiently or leading the consumer to prefer their products to others produced with lower standards and lower costs.
the europe 2020 strategy puts the european union on the right track towards the desired sustainable, inclusive and multiplier-effect economic growth, which allows for a high level not only of employment but also of social cohesion, productivity and competitiveness.
the importance of this strategy is to put sustainable growth and competitiveness at the heart of the european agenda.
because it is essential for the eu to have a strategy for growth and jobs, i voted in favour of this report, which contains a set of measures to combat unemployment and promote sustainable economic growth.
− given that unemployment has reached worrying levels since 2008, with 23 million unemployed in the eu, corresponding to 20% of the active population, and that to meet its employment target the eu will need to create jobs for a further 17.6 million people by 2020, it is with concern that i vote in favour of this resolution, calling for greater ambition in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and in creating sustainable jobs by improving the conditions for increased participation in the labour market, in particular in education and training.
to ensure that the food supply continues to at least supply those already benefiting from this support, there has already been a shift in priorities, with a greater emphasis on the long-term sustainability of agriculture over the primary objective of increasing food production.
the accessibility of radio spectrum is essential for a wide range of activities, from telecommunications to energy to research and above all global development.
− we have been working to promote a coordinated community approach to avoid market distortions, to maximise the benefits of spectrum use and to ensure optimal use from a social, economic and environmental point of view.
this radio spectrum initiative is of crucial importance in the digital agenda and the europe 2020 strategy, as spectrum use has an increasing influence on sustainable growth, competitiveness and productivity in the internal market across several important eu sectoral policies.
− in the current environment, where new technologies play an increasingly important role, it is essential that all european citizens have the same conditions of access to digital technologies and broadband connections, regardless of whether they live in rural or urban areas.
however, these are insufficient for the future sustainability of the sector and i therefore consider it necessary to ensure effective supply management instruments.
stabilisation of the milk and milk products market will not be achieved by one-off measures alone, but by medium-term solutions to maintain production in a sustainable way, without neglecting the right of consumers to a fair price.
first, the costs of feed and other factors of production, notably energy, have increased significantly, reflecting higher raw material prices.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
however, i believe that it is of paramount importance to strengthen the sustainability of public finances, as only in this way will it be possible to create the best conditions for the introduction of stability obligations.
i accept that efforts need to be made to adapt skills and profiles not only to the current situation but also in the medium/long term through regular monitoring and assessment of trends in the needs of enterprises, training establishments, youth organisations in order to combat structural unemployment and to adapt workers to the transition to a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy.
it stressed the need to create room for manoeuvre for the implementation of policies that could reverse the economic cycle, allowing a response to the social crisis and ensuring, in the long term, a truly sustainable fiscal consolidation.
i agree with this report, as i believe that it is necessary to support the creation of sustainable and lasting jobs through investment and tax reforms, improving the quality of jobs and increasing levels of employability, with particular emphasis on the new generations who already have an average unemployment rate in the european union of 20.4%.
− this report broadly supports the commission's annual growth survey for 2012, emphasising solutions to the sovereign and financial debt crisis, measures for medium and long-term economic growth and monitoring of the overall economic picture with a view to improving the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy.
− this report broadly supports the commission's annual growth survey for 2012, emphasising solutions to the sovereign and financial debt crisis, measures for medium and long-term economic growth and monitoring of the overall economic picture with a view to improving the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy.
in order to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy, the efforts of the member states and the eu should be based on pursuing differentiated fiscal consolidation that is growth-friendly and ensures economic recovery and job creation, and addressing unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis.
in particular, member states should give priority to growth-enhancing policies such as education, research, innovation, infrastructure and energy, and ensure effective, socially fair and sustainable management of both expenditure and revenue.
the report highlights solutions to resolve the sovereign and financial debt crises (in particular by strengthening the financing of the economy), measures to stimulate economic growth and monitor the overall economic environment, as well as strengthened coordination of economic policies and structural reforms, with the aim of improving productivity and thus the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular with regard to employment.
these measures should give priority to overcoming the sovereign debt crisis and promoting an economy with sustainable growth that ensures increased employment.
with fiscal consolidation in place and public expenditure growth under control, it is urgent to promote sustainable economic growth.
specifically targeted solutions to the current sovereign and financial debt crises, which are being developed daily by all institutions, must be coupled with a strong focus on measures to strengthen growth in the medium and long term, as well as monitoring the overall economic framework, in order to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and ensure its lasting success.
it is therefore important that we all make an effort to implement measures to combat the crisis in the short term, so that we can become more sustainable in the future.
− this report broadly supports the commission's annual growth survey for 2012, emphasising solutions to the sovereign and financial debt crisis, measures for medium and long-term economic growth and monitoring of the overall economic picture with a view to improving the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy.
among the measures outlined in the report, i would highlight fiscal consolidation which is favourable to growth and which ensures economic recovery, job creation, long-term financing of the real economy and the promotion of sustainable growth by developing competitiveness and investment.
− in its communication on the annual growth survey for 2012, the commission sets out the priorities for economic, fiscal and reform policies to promote job creation and sustainable growth in the member states over the next 12 months.
i agree with the report presented, as it is essential to pursue differentiated fiscal consolidation which is more conducive to sustainable growth, thus ensuring economic recovery and job creation in the european union in the short term.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
cost reduction also involves strengthening interinstitutional cooperation with a view to sharing good practice and increasing efficiency in the areas of human resources, organisation, technology and energy.
- i support this report, considering that the objective of maintaining the biomass of the carp stock at a level that allows its sustainable exploitation is essential in order to obtain the maximum yield in the long term.
we must not forget that, in accordance with the common fisheries policy, the precautionary principle is important in order to better manage the sustainability not only of this fishery but of all fisheries in general.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the multiannual plan for the western carp stock because i believe that it is necessary to unblock the legislative process in the council with a view to maintaining the biomass of the western carp stock at a level which ensures its sustainable exploitation and the highest long-term yield.
− sustainability and the renewal of fisheries resources are two central concerns in any fisheries policy, which cannot be ignored unless this activity is eventually brought to an end by the depletion of resources.
like many other fish species, carp are very important to the european union and we need a sustainable exploitation strategy, as the western carp population is the most important in community waters.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it will help to maintain the biomass of the western stock of carp, which in turn will ensure a high yield for fishermen in the long term through sustainable exploitation.
− multiannual management plans are an important tool for the sustainable management of fisheries resources.
in the case of the western stock unit of carp (the most commercially important stock in european waters), the multiannual plan aims to maintain the biomass of this unit at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation and the highest long-term yield.
the resolution adopted stresses that the existing interinstitutional deadlock must be resolved in the interests of the sustainability of fish stocks and to enable fishermen to plan their activities better.
the council also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of experts in the field of the environment.
those plans aim to maintain the biomass of the western stock of carp at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation and the highest long-term yield.
− the european union has committed itself, in accordance with the implementation plan adopted at the united nations world summit in 2002, to ensuring the sustainability of available fisheries resources.
the gravity of the problem, which points not only to environmental concerns but also to the economic repercussions of the measures to be adopted, which may affect many small-scale fishermen, means that the guidelines that can be adopted will have to be drawn up in the context of an ordinary legislative procedure, in a process of political dialogue between the three institutions, that is, with the necessary contribution of the european parliament.
− according to article 2 of council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 of 20 december 2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy, it must be ensured that exploitation of living aquatic resources creates economically, environmentally and socially sustainable conditions.
i am voting in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i believe it is important to ensure the sustainable exploitation of carp, to obtain the highest long-term yield and to quickly resolve the existing interinstitutional deadlock in the interests of the sustainability of fish stocks and to enable fishermen to plan their activities better.
the resolution adopted stresses that the existing interinstitutional deadlock must be resolved in the interests of the sustainability of fish stocks and to enable fishermen to plan their activities better.
− i support this resolution with its general principles, in particular the objective of reforming the cfp to ensure the environmental, social and economic sustainability of watersheds and the sustainability of local fishing communities, although there is still no clear definition of the management of regional watersheds which is the best way to address the sustainability of local economies.
however, this is only one aspect among many - such as the economic, environmental, cultural, scientific, recreational and tourist - that are affected by this activity and that must be particularly taken into account when defining and implementing a common fisheries policy for the european union.
i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution for the following reasons: 1. recognises fisheries as a sector that provides quality food; 2. promotes its economic and social component in culture, recreation and tourism, science, energy, environment and education; 3. ensures the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources; 4. strengthens maritime spatial planning policies; 5. promotes the establishment of small fishing communities; and 6. contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy as a driver of european economic growth.
among the points ignored or insufficiently addressed by this resolution are the particular importance of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing in economic, social, environmental and cultural terms; the future cfp should, on its own and in conjunction with other policies, contribute to the maintenance and creation of economic activities and jobs both upstream and downstream of fisheries; the multifunctionality of the fisheries sector should be fully taken into account in the cfp financing plan and any form of renationalisation of cfp costs should be rejected.
the reformed cfp should therefore ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and the maintenance of fish stocks at a healthy level so that fishing activities can be carried out in the long term in traditional fishing areas by the communities living there.
environmental, economic and social sustainability is also an important objective of the cfp and the cfp should give top priority to the creation of a sustainable fisheries sector in order to ensure the environmental, social and economic benefits of fisheries for present and future generations.
there are therefore cultural, recreational, scientific, energy, environmental and educational dimensions which should not be neglected.
when you think of traditional fishing, for example, it is clear that there is more to it than just an economic activity: the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union's policy on the environment.
the common fisheries policy must therefore adopt a holistic approach, which systematically considers these various factors: a hybrid model, of compromise between economic and environmental sustainability, of coordination between traditional fishing methods and cutting-edge scientific research, between the sea as a place of work and a place of recreation.
− the reform of the common fisheries policy must ensure that fisheries are maintained, in their main activities, in their traditional areas and in the framework of a sustainable balance between environmental protection, social development and economic viability.
it would have been important in this resolution to highlight the particular importance of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing in economic, social, environmental and cultural terms and to contribute to the maintenance and creation of economic activities and jobs both upstream and downstream of fishing.
on 14 december 2011, this parliament adopted a resolution on the eu-russia summit, calling for the addressing of such problematic issues as energy, terrorism, corruption, respect for human rights and the holding of free elections.
russia is a huge country with significant natural resources, abundant energy resources on which the eu is dependent and one of the world's greatest military powers.
the increase in economic relations between the two areas should, however, lead to a rapprochement of the moroccan development model, based on respect for people and the environment.
however, i cannot support an agreement where no environmental, social and economic impact assessment has been carried out, where the same phytosanitary conditions are not required and where numerous cases of fraud in tariff agreements have been reported.
models that threaten environmental sustainability, the viability of regional and local markets, food sovereignty and that degrade food quality and safety.
the biggest beneficiaries will be the large european economic groups, the exporting multinationals, which will thus conquer new markets and gain access to cheap labour, as well as the possibility of better circumventing social, labour and environmental standards in force in european countries.
the european parliament has called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
our group has therefore tabled an amendment calling for a sustainable and satisfactory solution, which explicitly excludes the possibility of products originating in the illegal israeli settlements in the occupied territories entering the eu market before the conclusion of the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin can be envisaged.
this trade liberalisation will harm small and medium-sized producers who will suffer from trade liberalisation because they are unable to compete with intensive production models, thus favouring large economic groups who conquer new markets and access cheap labour, as well as the possibility of better circumventing social, labour and environmental standards in force in european countries.
this important step must be accompanied and consolidated by other ambitious plans to improve and promote trade in the region, starting as soon as possible with the updating of pan-euro-mediterranean rules of origin, in order to take full advantage of the more favourable political and economic environment in our southern neighbours.
this convention favours the large economic groups, which in this way conquer new markets and gain access to cheap labour, and are able to circumvent social, labour and environmental standards in force in european countries.
- i support this motion for a resolution because it gives due weight to the renewal and extension of the term of the gmes given its increasingly important role in the area of the environment.
to monitor developments in climate change and forest degradation, greenhouse gas measurement, environmental sustainability, civil protection and security, and economic opportunities that may arise from research and development and innovation.
- the motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) follows a question with request for an oral answer by mr norbert glante, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the future of the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme, one of the european union's most emblematic space initiatives.
although it is an instrument that, in addition to enabling the observation of planet earth, is also essential for combating climate change, civil protection and security, crisis management and sustainable economic development, the current budgetary constraints have led the european commission to withdraw its funding from the multiannual financial framework from 2013 and to place it in an intergovernmental financing plan.
- gmes is the name given to the global monitoring for environment and safety programme.
this is a union infrastructure which makes it possible to manage the environment better and to increase the safety of citizens.
it will lead to more jobs, more security and environmental protection.
− the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme is one of the european union's flagship space initiatives and this resolution, which i voted in favour of, stresses that the uncertainty about the future of the gmes programme and its funding is highly detrimental to the development and commercialisation of gmes services and applications, which are expected to generate economic growth and well-being for european citizens.
− the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme is based on the observation of the planet earth, seeking to collect data to improve matters such as climate change instruments, sustainable development or crisis management.
i therefore support the position of the committee on industry, research and energy and have voted in favour of the resolution.
− the gmes programme, alongside galileo and egnos, is one of the eu's flagship initiatives with a crucial role to play in space monitoring in all areas of society, from transport to agriculture, from combating climate change to preventing natural crises, and from developing an entire economic activity.
fukushima forces us to reopen a debate that should never have been closed: the debate on nuclear energy.
they know better than anyone that safe nuclear energy is something that doesn't exist, they know better than anyone that there are no stress tests that can simulate what happened in fukushima and that's why we know that energy policies are national but in the sky, mr president, there are no borders.
the consequences for farmers in my country are tremendous: shortages of animal feed, rising prices of hay and straw, rising costs of water and energy, falling production of cereals, falling production of vegetables and many other products.
i would like to make a plea for this to happen, for the european institutions to be aware of this inevitable consequence of the effects of global warming, which are affecting the countries of southern europe in the first place, one of which is portugal, and for this to be dealt with in the new cap framework and specific financial mechanisms.
the question is: are we at a turning point with the pollution that exists in europe?
states and political parties themselves should therefore create an environment conducive to women's involvement in politics, either through education or through the funding of general education programmes that promote civic awareness of gender issues, the elimination of gender stereotypes and prejudice against women.
− higher education should provide an accessible learning environment, without any discrimination, with access to quality education.
as regards the first, the committee on international trade unanimously proposes that parliament authorise the council to conclude the 2010 international cocoa agreement for three fundamental reasons: first, the agreement strengthens the capacity of the international cocoa organisation to act in this sector; second, the agreement provides greater clarity and transparency about how the organisation operates and increases the participation of civil society in the work of the organisation; and third, the international cocoa agreement introduces new provisions aimed at promoting good labour relations and a sustainable cocoa economy.
it also encourages the same contracting parties to promote the sustainable development of the cocoa economy and to implement programmes and projects aimed at achieving these objectives.
as one of the largest importers of cocoa, the european union has an increased responsibility to ensure that cocoa production and trade are carried out in the most transparent and sustainable way possible.
i think it is important indeed to use our political strength to get these countries to ratify and effectively implement the ilo agreements on child labour; secondly, to use development programmes to gain sustainability gains in the cocoa sector; thirdly, to seriously explore the idea of traceability of cocoa so as to create a child label free cocoa which can be a means of affirming the importance of this material in cocoa production.
firstly, the requirement to take into account the fact that each community may have specific needs to which the vet fund must be able to respond appropriately, such as the modernisation of vessels in terms of safety, hygiene, good environmental practices, and at this level particular emphasis on investment in environmentally friendly fishing gear and ever less polluting engines.
we need to focus on actions that support sustainability, because it really makes no sense to give european taxpayers' money to finance a policy that does not lead to healthy fish stocks.
this is an instrument which, in addition to improving the previous regulation from an environmental point of view, will help to consolidate the regional economy and to preserve fisheries resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
economic recovery requires measures to strengthen solidarity and promote sustainable growth and employment.
i believe that the austerity measures that have been designed and already taken must be accompanied by specifically targeted investments that lead to greater european added value, sustainable economic development and an improvement in the quality of life of citizens.
the growing activity of criminal organisations has been expanding into numerous areas, ranging from drug and human trafficking, to financial crime, cybercrime, fraud, extortion, environmental crime and many others.
as the world's largest importer and consumer of cocoa, and home to the largest chocolate processors and manufacturers, the eu has and should absolutely take responsibility for making this sector more sustainable.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the protection of the environment.
as the european union is the world's largest consumer of chocolate, this resolution is of considerable importance, as it is intended to implement measures to achieve greater sustainability in the sector and also to raise awareness among all those involved of the problem of child labour, which unfortunately still occurs in this and other sectors.
this international cocoa agreement 2010 replaces the 2001 agreement and aims to create conditions for fairer and more sustainable world cocoa trade through enhanced international cooperation between producers and consumers within the framework of the international cocoa organisation.
this new agreement sets clear objectives aimed at a sustainable cocoa economy, recognising the importance of economic viability and social and environmental responsibility at all stages of the value chain.
the 2010 international cocoa agreement is fundamental to the viability and development of cocoa producing countries, contributing to the sustainability of these economies by facilitating fair prices that allow for equitable revenues for producers and consumers and ultimately promoting the transparency of the global cocoa economy.
− the new agreement, which replaces the 2001 agreement, aims to: promote international cooperation within the world cocoa economy; provide an appropriate forum for discussion of all cocoa-related issues between governments as well as with the private sector; contribute to strengthening the national cocoa economies of the member countries; seek fair prices that provide equitable revenues for producers and consumers; encourage an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy; promote transparency in the world cocoa economy through the collection, analysis and dissemination of relevant statistical data and the conduct of appropriate studies; advocate the elimination of trade barriers; promote and encourage the consumption of chocolate and cocoa products; and encourage members to improve the quality of cocoa.
these measures are intended to achieve fair prices that allow for equitable revenues for producers as well as consumers, to encourage an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy and to promote transparency in the global cocoa economy.
− as part of the eu's common commercial policy, this document aims to make the cocoa sector fairer, more transparent and more sustainable.
the promotion of international cooperation within the world economy in this sector, the elimination of trade barriers and the promotion of an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy are some of the objectives set out in this agreement, the achievement of which deserves my support.
the aim of this agreement is to create fair, equitable and sustainable conditions for world trade in cocoa by strengthening international cooperation within the international cocoa organisation, which is strengthening its powers under this agreement.
the report calls for economic reforms by the icelandic authorities, the abolition of capital controls, the opening up of the energy, air transport and fisheries industries, rejecting any measures to protect its economy and workers.
the russian government has demonstrated a certain economic and political independence and defended its national wealth, particularly energy, and defended the role of the state in certain strategic sectors.
but what does the european union do about the many other maritime crimes committed by foreign vessels in the same waters, from illegal fishing to dumping of toxic waste?
mr president, it is essential to discuss the quality and quantity of water and the impacts of climate change which are already being felt in rainfall levels.
europe continues to waste about 50% of its water due to inefficiencies.
we must reduce consumption and combat waste... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing.
on the one hand, the objective of achieving a low-carbon economy by 2050 will help to tackle the main problems posed by climate change.
- i voted in favour of the report on a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050, because developing a low-greenhouse-gas economy is key to responding to the challenges of climate change, but also to strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy itself and creating more jobs.
− at a time when the debate on greenhouse gas emissions has become unavoidable and when maintaining the current energy dependence on oil and its derivatives is unsustainable, it is important that more environmentally friendly and equally reliable energy alternatives are found.
it is also essential that europe finds, within the eu2020 strategy, innovative ways to promote sustainable and greener growth.
the 2010 data are not encouraging, however, with a 6% increase in carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is therefore urgent to ensure the development of a low-carbon economy which is nonetheless competitive and does not harm the already weakened european economy.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment by the use of radioactive substances.
correction of errors in the functioning of the emissions trading system, in particular as a result of their capture (and distortion) by the financial system.
drawing the right conclusions from the terrible experience of fukushima about the uncontrolled risks of the nuclear option, which should not be the easy way out of the fight against carbon emissions.
- this report is a paradigmatic example of the mercantilist approach that has presided over the much-touted transition to a low-carbon economy.
the reaffirmation of the belief in emissions trading, despite its widely demonstrated perversity and ineffectiveness, the excessive focus on the issue of energy sources without giving due attention to consumption patterns and the underlying economic model are some of the most obvious shortcomings and weaknesses of this report.
issues such as current production and trade models, free trade and its impacts on the delocalisation of production vis-à-vis consumption, and on energy consumption flows and patterns are insufficiently addressed.
the focus on individual transport (which is certainly to the liking of the car industry), the defence of the single european sky and the inclusion of the sector in the emissions trading scheme are illustrative examples of the approach that inspires the whole report.
- the debate on emissions of polluting gases is becoming increasingly important, but we cannot continue to be hostages to our energy dependence on oil and its derivatives.
we must therefore find energy alternatives that are more environmentally friendly and equally reliable.
europe is obliged to find, by taking advantage of the eu2020 strategy, innovative ways to promote economic growth without further affecting the environment.
however, data from 2010 tells us that there was a 6% increase in carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere.
however, as this report points out, europe is responsible for only 11% of global co2 emissions and our actions in isolation are not enough to stop the process of increasing co2 emissions.
this has to be a joint effort by all the powers, particularly the brics, which are increasingly responsible for co2 emissions.
what is required of all is the development of a low-carbon economy which is still competitive and does not harm the european economy, which is currently very weakened by the world crisis.
− i voted in favour of this report on a roadmap for the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 because it has the ambition of a europe with cutting-edge, high-tech industry and highly skilled professionals who create the products we need using fewer resources and emitting less co2 in manufacturing them.
- this roadmap for the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050, presented by the european commission, deserves my applause.
smart electricity grids) and environmental protection, this programme will always be a long-term added value.
it is our responsibility to take the lead in reducing co2 emissions, even if our actions alone are not enough to stop the warming process.
finally, there is a need to review the emissions trading system so that prices recover to the levels envisaged when the legislation was adopted and to avoid the so-called carbon leakage, i.e.
the possibility for some companies to leave europe to avoid higher costs resulting from measures taken to reduce co2 emissions.
− the european commission has published a communication entitled roadmap for the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 which aims to define new public policies that will allow specific targets to be reached for reducing internal energy emissions by 40%, 60% and 80% respectively by 2030, 2040 and 2050. i support this report because i believe that climate change is a long-term determinant of economic and social well-being and that coherent action is required at eu level and at the international political level.
in order to pursue an integrated approach in the area of renewable energy and climate change for the period 2014-2020, i consider it essential to establish a strong synergy between the structural funds from cohesion policy and the new research and innovation programme called horizon 2020. i would also like to emphasize the financial attention that must be given to the outermost regions, since they need to make substantial investments to achieve greater energy efficiency.
- once again, we are faced with a market approach in the so-called transition to a low-carbon economy.
this report does not sufficiently address issues such as current production and trade patterns, free trade and its impacts on the relocation of production in relation to consumption, and on energy consumption flows and patterns.
some examples of this mercantilist approach can be found in the focus on individual transport, the defence of the single european sky and the inclusion of the sector in the emissions trading scheme.
the economic and political climate of recent years cannot serve as an excuse to fuel the growing resurgence of radicalisation and xenophobic extremism that has been gaining momentum in western europe over the past decade through personified speeches against, among other issues, immigration and multiculturalism, using social media, using the internet and online tools (so-called digital populism) as a bridge to stimulate hatred and racist sentiments.
the russian government, which cannot hide its role in the service of the national plutocracy, has been holding back the advancement of the interests of these two blocs by protecting national wealth, particularly energy, from foreign interests.
this has been demonstrated by the russian government through a certain economic and political independence and defence of its national wealth, particularly energy, and the role of the state in certain strategic sectors.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that there has been a strengthening of relations between the eu and kazakhstan, including in strategic areas such as democracy, human rights, the environment, energy, trade and transport, as well as the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking.
religious intolerance, political repression, restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly, intimidation and violent attacks against independent media have created a climate of fear among citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is not enough to ask the oil companies to contribute and increase accountability when it comes to companies that have committed the worst crimes against the nigerian people and caused irreparable environmental damage.
environmental crimes against humanity have been committed in the niger delta, leaving coastal communities without any source of income.
the situation in nigeria is unstable because of a number of factors: corruption and promiscuity in the state apparatus, mismanagement of oil resources, environmental chaos, sexual intolerance and the existence of islamist terrorist groups that are spreading panic among the christian population.
it is not enough to ask the oil companies to contribute and increase accountability when it comes to companies that have committed the worst crimes against the nigerian people and caused irreparable environmental damage, as in the niger delta.
the european union must therefore focus its position on promoting free access to water for all people, on efforts to conserve and manage it, taking account of the threats of climate change and greater coordination at regional, national, european and global levels in the interests of water quality.
however, it plays a key role in public health and environmental protection and as such these should be priorities for any appropriate water management policy.
this is why the proper protection of drinking water resources is so important for human health and for combating water pollution by limiting the amount of dangerous substances entering the environment and areas with drinking water resources.
water is, however, fundamental to public health and environmental protection and therefore an appropriate water policy should be a priority for all.
proper protection of drinking water resources and the fight against water pollution are essential if we are to safeguard areas where drinking water resources exist.
− water is a commodity that is increasingly under threat, given the current demographic growth, urbanisation and the most diverse types of pollution.
in addition, all countries are expected to set a quantitative target for reducing chemical and biological pollution from urban wastewater and soil-related activities by 2015 in order to protect and restore water quality and support the sustainability of water resources and ecosystems.
i believe it is essential that member states commit themselves increasingly to the achievement of the millennium development goals set by the united nations and also take into account the relevant outcomes of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development.
as regards the food aid programme for the most deprived, yes, i want the sums allocated so far - 500 million euros per year - to be preserved for the real sustainability of this programme until 2020. yes, you will have to convince the reluctant countries today, but we will not allow the clause on good management conditionality to be attached to the social clause, that would amount to a double penalty.
public policies need to be created to support food distribution and to end food waste in public restaurants and canteens.
− in this report we have access to comprehensive, understandable and accessible information, including, in particular, on co2 emissions.
luigi de magistris, elected member of the european parliament (mep) in 2009, was summoned to appear before the court of lamezia, italy, by antonio saladino, following an interview with the italian newspaper il fatto quotidiano on 9 march 2011. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is not only about improving the quality of life of citizens but also about the financial sustainability of the social area in the member states.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i agree with their mobilisation and would like the sector to be able to recover in a responsible and sustainable way and that the workers now supported can soon successfully re-enter the labour market.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
turkey is a country with which the eu has a privileged relationship, not only because of its strong economic growth but also because of its geostrategic importance in a region where an energy corridor is vital to europe.
the control of the turkish economy and the use of its geostrategic position in relation to the middle east, caucasus and central asia, particularly for access to energy sources (and control of their flows) and markets in these regions, is the ultimate objective.
the resolution is illustrative of this desire, recognising the interdependence between the eu and turkey and their relevant role in regional stability and energy security.
on the other hand, its military potential as a member of nato and its energy potential as an alternative source to the eu are some of the key elements for its entry into the group of 27. however, their non-integration is mainly due to political factors and not to the effective application of the copenhagen criteria.
- as we have repeatedly stressed, the eu accession process for turkey, promoted by the great powers - not without contradictions - aims at integrating this great country into the eu's single market, controlling its economy and using its geostrategic position in relation to the middle east, the caucasus and central asia, particularly for access to and control of energy sources and markets in these regions.
the resolution is illuminating on this issue, recognising the interdependence between the eu and turkey and its relevant role in regional stability and energy security.
it is essential to ensure that the business sector takes account of social, ethical and environmental concerns in its practices and that it takes responsibility both towards employees and shareholders of companies and towards society at large.
we need companies with an eye to the future and not just thinking about immediate profit for the satisfaction of shareholders, but looking to ensure the stability and financial sustainability of the company.
the business sector should be in a position to take account of social, ethical and environmental concerns in its practices, and to demonstrate its responsibilities both towards workers and shareholders in companies and towards society at large, and to ensure better economic performance and the creation of decent jobs.
− the eib has done very important work in a number of sectors, including the financing of projects in the fields of energy efficiency, renewable energy, transport, forestry, innovation, communication technologies and adaptation to climate change.
i also welcome the commitment to the idea of project bonds to improve the risk rating of bonds issued by companies themselves, used to finance european infrastructure in the fields of transport, energy and information technology.
its priority areas of action are therefore territorial cohesion, social and economic convergence, the implementation of the knowledge economy, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the development of transport networks, environmental protection and the promotion of sustainable energy.
the 2010 annual report focuses on climate-related project finance in areas such as energy efficiency, renewable energy, transport, forestry, innovation and climate change adaptation.
it should be noted that in 2010 the eib increased the available finance for climate-related projects to eur 19 billion, compared to eur 16 billion in 2009. this focus of the bank on climate change is very important.
it would, however, be relevant for the bank to stop financing certain types of projects which have a catastrophic environmental and social impact.
the eib should also do its utmost to fully align the bank's operations with the eu's objectives for a swift transition to a low-carbon economy.
the 2010 annual report calls for the eib to make a greater contribution by financing climate-related projects in areas such as energy efficiency, renewable energy, transport, forestry, innovation and climate change adaptation.
the european union must work with civil society and, in the run-up to the 2015 elections, assist in the training of administrative staff and in the preparation of the reforms needed to lift the other sanctions, which obviously have to include the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, freedom of the press and expression and unrestricted access to the internet, the protection of minorities, labour rights, environmental laws that defend the interests of the burmese people and, of course, support for economic and commercial development that never ignores the central issue of defending human rights.
they also seek to create the added value needed to meet the challenges of sustainable development and increased competitiveness, in particular, of this region and of europe in general.
− article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) (the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt specific measures designed in particular to lay down the conditions for the application of the treaties to these regions, including common policies) provides for the application of a special status to the so-called outermost regions (orr), which, by reason of their geographical situation (remoteness, difficult topography and climate or insularity), constitute a specific group.
how these regions can achieve the defined objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the priorities mentioned by the rapporteur: positive discrimination against these regions and development strategies aimed at greater competitiveness, growth and employment; special attention to specific areas such as fisheries, agriculture, renewable energy, information technologies, tourism, etc.
− the outermost regions of the european union are a group of regions which, by reason of their particular characteristics linked to their physical and structural constraints, resulting from their remoteness and insularity, difficult terrain and climate, form a specific group of regions, recognised by article 349 tfeu.
it is therefore necessary and appropriate to examine, with regard to the future cohesion policy in the ors, how the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as set out in the eu 2020 strategy, can be achieved in these european regions, which have particularities and permanent constraints resulting mainly from their remoteness and which justify the adoption of specific measures by the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas.
− the eu's outermost regions (ors) are a group of regions which, because of their particular characteristics, linked to their physical and structural constraints resulting from their remoteness and insularity, difficult terrain and climate, have a special status in the treaty.
in calling for a territorial approach, this report aims to examine, with regard to future cohesion policy in the octs, how the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as enshrined in the eu 2020 strategy, can be achieved in these european regions.
i fully support the proposal to strengthen the chapter on labour and environmental standards, which is already part of the union's external trade treaties.
the aim here is to defend the union's own economic and commercial interests by combating social and environmental dumping in trade relations.
i support the conclusion of this agreement, as i consider that azerbaijan plays an important role in the context of the european union's eastern partnership and there are mutual benefits in the conclusion of these agreements, whether for political stability and the eu's strategic interest in the democratic development of the region, whether for the remarkable economic growth of its internal market, or for the energy issue as it is an important energy supplier of the eu (although the energy aspect has not yet been opened in the negotiations).
the energy chapter remains unaddressed and thorny issues such as nagorno-karabakh and the human rights situation remain.
although azerbaijan is an important partner for the eu, mainly because of the supply of energy but also of other products, we cannot accept the continuing violations of human rights such as house raids and the detention of people without any guilt.
and both are inseparable from the eu's energy dependence and the recognised strategic importance of the caucasus region as a producer and transit region for important energy resources.
this is the central reason for the updating of the existing agreement for a comprehensive and deep free trade area and for the pressures to join the wto, forcing it to open its energy market, placing a substantial part of sovereignty over its natural resources, including energy, at the mercy of european and other multinationals in this important sector.
however, there are still some issues not covered in this agreement, notably energy.
azerbaijan has played an important role in the eastern partnership and in addressing the eu's energy security challenges, due to its remarkable economic growth.
i am voting in favour of the recommendations contained in this document, stressing that the important chapter of the negotiations on the energy issue has not yet been opened and that the subject of human rights must be an essential element of this agreement.
− the mandate for the negotiations of the agreement with azerbaijan is inseparable from the mandate for the negotiations with armenia and both agreements are inseparable from the eu's energy dependence and the recognised strategic importance of the caucasus region as a producing and transit region.
this is the central reason for updating the existing agreement for a comprehensive and deep free trade area and for the pressure to join the wto, forcing the country to open its energy market and to give up a substantial part of its sovereignty over its natural resources, including energy, in favour of the large european multinationals and others in this important sector.
ensuring access to and control over natural resources, particularly energy, is vital for the eu, which, faced with a serious crisis, reinforces its policy of interference and all political, economic, diplomatic and other mechanisms to weaken sovereigns, subordinate them to the interests of the eu's great powers and capitalist monopolies hungry for new markets and greater exploitation of workers to generate the huge profits they need to get out of the profit crisis they are in.
the eu has been facing serious economic and financial difficulties, forcing some member states to seek external assistance to ensure the sustainability of their public accounts.
− the exploitation and trade of illegal timber undermines the competitiveness of legitimate forest industries in both exporting and importing countries, limiting the ability of these industries to carry out operations that promote sustainable forest management as well as sustainable development, with the central african republic (car) being one such example.
while sustainable forest development wins, the eu also strengthens new market opportunities for car's wood products.
the agreement will also provide a guarantee to eu countries that they are buying timber harvested in a sustainable and balanced way and that they are not contributing, even unintentionally, to the destruction of tropical forests.
- climate change, which in recent decades has affected the planet through unexpected natural disasters, has put the problem of large-scale deforestation on the agenda, especially in the amazon region, considered the lungs of the planet, and on the african continent.
i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider it essential that there should be legislation to promote the sustainability of the forestry sector and to prevent indiscriminate logging.
in addition, this vpa will contribute to the overall and sustainable development of the car.
i did so because i believe that this partnership instrument aims to improve standards of management, sustainability and accountability in the forestry sector and because it is expected that the vpa will contribute positively to overall development and growth in the central african republic, including by safeguarding revenues generated by timber exports to the eu and other international markets.
in addition to being a partnership instrument to improve management standards, sustainability and accountability in the forestry sector, the vpa is expected to contribute positively to overall development and growth in the central african republic, inter alia, by safeguarding revenues generated by timber exports to the eu and other international markets.
− in addition to being a partnership instrument to improve management standards, sustainability and accountability in the forestry sector, the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the central african republic is expected to contribute positively to overall development and growth in the latter, in particular by safeguarding revenues generated by timber exports to the eu and other international markets.
− the exploitation and trade of illegal timber undermines the competitiveness of legitimate forest industries in both exporting and importing countries, limiting the ability of these industries to carry out operations that promote sustainable forest management and sustainable development.
it is noted that approximately 45% of the territory is covered by forests, allowing this voluntary partnership agreement with the eu to allow liberia to simultaneously address the problems associated with illegal logging and trade, improve forest sustainability and expand market opportunities with the union in the timber sector.
- given that about 45% of the republic of liberia is covered by forest and that the country is home to half of the remaining tropical forests in west africa, and given that much of these forests were cleared during the 14 years of civil war to finance the war itself, i can only welcome the efforts of the current president of liberia to structure the forestry sector and create a legal framework to allow the sustainable marketing of that country's timber.
i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider it essential that there should be legislation to promote the sustainability of the forestry sector and to prevent indiscriminate logging.
in addition, this vpa will contribute to the overall and sustainable development of liberia.
i did so because i believe that this partnership instrument will contribute positively to liberia's overall development and growth and because it is expected to enable liberia to put an end to illegal deforestation and forest degradation, which contribute to climate change.
in addition to creating a partnership instrument to enable liberia to end illegal deforestation and forest degradation, which contribute to climate change, the vpa should improve market opportunities for liberian timber products in european and other international markets.
the proposal for a directive, although not binding on member states, is a very important step towards creating a more favourable competitive environment for businesses and the revival of the economy.
another important item that was approved is that, in order to adapt to the new taxation of energy products, companies will have to implement the principles of this measure gradually, given the current economic and financial crisis in europe and the world.
- i voted in favour of the report on the directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity, as it proposes the gradual introduction of measures such as a co2 tax to adapt energy taxation systems to the eu's commitments to combat climate change, but provides for a transitional period for their introduction and incentives for businesses and households.
− finding the optimum balance between climate and environmental policy objectives and energy and industrial policy objectives is a complex exercise and, with rare exceptions, difficult to agree on.
if we add a third objective to these two, namely an internal market based on the free movement of goods and services, the exercise underlying the calculation of taxation - based on the principle of equal treatment for energy consumers irrespective of the source of energy used - becomes extremely complex.
this directive therefore aims to find a new method of calculation, with the final taxation being based on two components: co2 emissions and general energy consumption taxation.
an important point for portugal that this directive seeks to ensure is the safeguarding of the right of member states to apply a general level of taxation of energy consumption, which may go down to zero, to energy products and electricity used in agricultural, horticultural or poultry farming and forestry work.
the proposal is a council directive amending council directive 2003/96/ec, which aims to restructure the community framework for energy products and electricity.
over the last decade, european citizens have been confronted with continuous increases in the price of energy products, which have led to a substantial increase in the cost of factors of production and, consequently, to a rise in the cost of living.
while i understand the need to move to a low-carbon economy to avoid climate change, this process has to be gradual and not suffocating for the economy and, above all, for people.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the energy taxation adopted in 2003 is outdated in the face of the new co2 reduction rules in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, but i cannot help but draw attention to the social problems arising from penalties for consumers.
- this proposal for a directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity provides that the part of the tax relating to energy consumption and the part of the tax relating to co2 emissions together form the tax on a given product.
in addition, member states will be free to set their own rates, provided they are above the minimum rates set by the eu, and they will also be able to create their own tax structure, reproducing the relationship between the minimum levels of taxation for the different energy sources.
in view of the perennial upward trend in the price of the various final energy sources, the energy taxation framework now proposed, in the context of the persistence of neoliberal policies in this sector, will not fail to penalise consumers in general and the least competitive countries, which already have serious competitive difficulties due to the costs of the factors of production related to their particular contexts.
the environmental objectives must certainly be pursued and deepened, but in the context of a distinct economic and social formation, which puts the strategic sector under public control in the service of the general interest.
− the current energy taxation directive, adopted in 2003, aims to avoid distortions of competition in the energy sector in the internal market.
minimum rates are established, mainly on the basis of the amount of energy consumed, for fuels, fuels and electricity.
this new proposal for a directive adapts the structure of energy taxation to support the objective of a low-carbon economy that is equally energy efficient and to avoid problems in the internal market.
the proposal aims to make energy taxation consistent with the eu's commitments to combat climate change by introducing a co2 element.
i am in favour of this new form of taxation because it will help to reduce co2 emissions.
- i voted in favour of the lulling report on the taxation of energy and electricity for two fundamental reasons: a) because this legislation is going in the right direction towards fiscal harmonization in the union, which, as i have long argued, is a key element of the very idea of a single market without internal frontiers, which is not compatible with fiscal dumping to gain competitiveness.
(b) because taxation of fuels and electricity is a crucial part of the efficient use of resources in which the union is highly deficient, as well as of the european policy of reducing co2 emissions and combating climate warming.
− the current energy taxation directive, adopted in 2003, was mainly intended to avoid distortions of competition in the energy sector in the internal market.
the revised proposal for a directive adapts the structure of energy taxation to support the objective of a low-carbon economy that is equally energy efficient and to avoid problems in the internal market.
the proposal aims to make energy taxation consistent with the eu's commitments to combat climate change by introducing a co2 element.
i voted in favour of the report because i think that a balanced text has been achieved, taking account of the many variables in the energy sector and their impact on the economy.
− the current energy taxation directive, adopted in 2003, was mainly intended to avoid distortions of competition in the internal market in the energy sector by establishing common rules for the products subject to taxation, the timing of taxation and the exemptions allowed.
however, the revised proposal for a directive adapts the structure of energy taxation to support the objective of a low-carbon economy that is equally energy efficient and can avoid problems in the internal market.
the proposal aims to make energy taxation consistent with the eu's commitments to combat climate change by introducing a co2 element.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be of great importance for the implementation of the european 20-20-20 strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
− the european commission has put forward a proposal to restructure the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, with the aim of aligning the directive more closely with the european union's energy and climate change objectives.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the taxation of energy in the union must take account of environmental policy as well as the objectives of energy policy and industrial policy, in order to help create a common strategy that will enhance the internal market and make it more efficient.
it should be noted that the implementation of the new tax structure should not entail an increase in the tax rate on diesel in order to align the price with that of petrol, allowing the automotive industry to continue to focus on the production of cleaner, energy efficient and co2-reducing combustion engines.
finally, the primary objective of energy taxation is to encourage consumers to use energy more efficiently and from cleaner sources, and to ensure a natural process of adaptation of the industry that will be in place by 2025.
in writing.
− with this directive, the part of the tax relating to co2 emissions and the part of the tax relating to energy consumption will together form the tax on a given product.
in addition, member states will be free to set their own rates, provided they are above the minimum rates set by the eu, and may also create their own tax structure, reproducing the relationship between the minimum levels of taxation for different energy sources.
this voluntary narrowing of european policy on climate and environmental issues to the detriment of energy and industrial issues will have a very strong negative impact on consumers.
at a time when the prices of the various end-use energy sources have been showing a perennial upward trend and the introduction of renewable energy is not relevant, it is worrying that, in the context of climate concerns, it is proposed to introduce an energy tax framework which will continue to penalise consumers in general and countries with less competitive economies, which already have serious competitive difficulties due to the costs of production factors related to their particular contexts.
it is also important to focus on the objective of contributing to the necessary stabilisation of financial markets and the economy as a whole by significantly reducing the liquidity available for financial exchanges unrelated to economic activity, increasing public revenue to accelerate the necessary fiscal consolidation and, at the same time, reducing the climate of austerity that the right across europe has imposed on its citizens.
the flight of companies to tax havens, especially from countries involved in financial assistance programmes and which had to eliminate privileges in accordance with the troika proposals, the lack of cooperation and financial collaboration between member states and the gaps in the european union (eu) legislation on taxation contribute to the creation of a climate of lack of tax confidence that undermines economic development and, consequently, growth and job creation.
if we want to safeguard the ability of the member states to finance public tasks, including the welfare state, especially in a period of budgetary discipline and consolidation, we cannot afford such levels of fiscal waste.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agricultural sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
we want to preserve biodiversity, we want to prevent forest fires, we want better water management and better soil protection.
the criteria established should also consider the possibility of cumulative biophysical parameters, combining physical (soil, climate), geographical (isolation, distance), production, proportion of pastures, density of animals, etc.
these models are unsustainable and irrational, whether from an environmental, economic or social point of view.
the promotion of local production and consumption by encouraging short supply chains and reducing energy flows associated with food production and distribution is thus a pressing need.
the effects of climate change are not gender neutral.
climate change does not equally affect men and women, rich and poor, developed and developing countries.
the effects of climate change are greatest in the poorest regions and can exacerbate social inequalities.
70% of the poor are women and they are also more vulnerable to the impacts of climate change and natural disasters.
the elimination of inequalities and the fight against climate change are linked.
there will be no climate justice without true gender equality.
where more disasters occur, the schooling rate is lower, droughts and water shortages due to climate change force women to work harder to secure water, food and energy, and often girls drop out of school to help their mothers with these tasks.
on the other hand, women are accustomed to managing natural resources, which gives them a potential that should not be neglected in the upgrading of climate change mitigation and adaptation strategies.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his report, on the good work he has done, and to reiterate that only with ambition, political will and adequate funding can we meet the objectives of the biodiversity strategy 2020. the protection of biodiversity must be integrated into all eu policies, in particular in the context of the current reforms of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy.
this funding will be offset from an environmental and economic point of view, as the cost of biodiversity loss could reach 7% of gdp by 2050. the benefits associated with the natura 2000 network are estimated to be around eur 200-300 billion per year, in addition to creating millions of jobs.
the objectives of the biodiversity strategy require concrete, integrated and ambitious actions, and adequate funding is also needed.
it should be borne in mind that biodiversity encompasses all interactions of the living world, species and ecosystems, in direct connection with human activity, food, clothing, health care, heating of buildings depend on biodiversity.
biodiversity is the guarantee of life.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in 2001, the european commission set itself the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. ten years later, it recognized that this goal has not been achieved and that global biodiversity is also under serious threat.
the biodiversity strategy to 2020 is now being discussed.
on the other hand, some of the sectoral policies with the most relevant effects on biodiversity remain essentially unchanged.
the commission is enthusiastic about the business and biodiversity approach.
we are afraid that we are dealing with a business-as-usual strategy in biodiversity.
iter is a unique scientific programme in the world on fusion energy, also known as star energy, involving the world's leading nuclear experts, and which may be the future energy solution.
it was initiated in 1995 by a future energy commitment between the presidents of the united states of america and the soviet union, ronald reagan and gorbachev.
we reaffirm that, despite the controversy surrounding this project, we consider it important that energy research can continue to improve and overcome the risks and limitations of the forms of energy currently available, considering the multiplicity of options and giving priority to renewable sources.
this will provide the additional eur 1.3 billion needed for iter in 2012 and 2013. iter is a long-term investment in the energy security of europe and the world order.
− i voted in favour of this report on the council position on draft amending budget no 1/2012 of the european union for the financial year 2012, as the council's position follows the agreement reached between the three institutions (commission, council and parliament) to finance the additional cost of €1.3 billion (in commitment appropriations) of the iter - fusion for energy (f4e) project in 2012-13. iter is an international research project that has the particularity of breaking with tradition by bringing together geographically dispersed multicultural teams to coordinate a technically challenging fusion-for-energy project.
this is the case with this motion for a resolution which aims to enter in the 2012 budget an additional amount of eur 650 million to finance the iter fusion for energy (f4e) project.
i am voting in favour of this report which aims to increase the overall value of the iter project to eur 1.3 billion, giving it greater financial sustainability to invest in the area of energy production.
we consider it important that energy research can continue to improve and overcome the risks and limitations of the forms of energy currently available.
it should also facilitate the creation of synergies and the sharing of resources and skills between companies, thus enabling a more collaborative business environment for smes.
− the adoption of the eu 2020 strategy in 2010 sought to create smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by improving economic governance.
− the eu 2020 strategy was adopted with the aim of creating smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by improving economic governance.
− the european commission has defined the seven action lines of the europe 2020 strategy, one of which is the digital agenda for europe, which aims to extract sustainable economic and social benefits from a digital single market, based on fast and ultra-fast internet and interoperable applications.
however, i believe that special attention should be paid to the specific features of the outermost regions and that a programme should be set up in the area of transport, energy and telecommunications, similar to posei for agriculture and fisheries.
the occurrence of this coup d'état is in addition to other situations of great instability in the sahel and west africa, a region rich in natural resources, particularly energy, which is causing various greed.
the occurrence of this coup d'état is in addition to other situations of great instability in the sahel and west africa, a region immensely rich in natural resources, particularly energy, which has aroused the interest and the neocolonial attempts of the european powers, the usa and nato.
the resolution recognises all the efforts made by the burmese authorities to ensure that the process of democratic reforms is sustainable and irreversible.
myanmar's geostrategic location between china and india and its natural resources, including energy, can play an important role for the eu and its nato allies, including the us.
myanmar's geostrategic location between china and india and its natural resources, including energy, can play an important role for the eu and its nato allies, including the us.
this is an example that should be followed by eu countries, notably portugal, taking public control not only of the energy sector but of other strategic sectors of the economy.
what this resolution once again shows is that the majority of this parliament is not here to defend the sovereignty of the people, the rights, interests and needs of workers and the population in general, guaranteeing their access to energy and other natural resources, but rather to defend the profits of the shareholders of large companies such as repsol.
consideration should also be given to the use of local technicians and existing staff in eu delegations should endeavour to develop links with local societies in order to bridge their unpreparedness and ensure a full understanding of the local environment in which they operate.
but two questions arise the social and economic development of the peripheral countries will only be truly sustainable when they are no longer dependent on powers such as the eu, when they can exploit and develop their own capacities and do not have to watch their resources being continually plundered.
− i welcome this report as the inclusion of gender issues provides an opportunity to strengthen efforts to combat climate change.
this report should thus serve the purpose of addressing inequalities and addressing their root causes, to increase women's capacity for financial autonomy, not only by supporting women in critical situations, but also by harnessing their potential to fight climate change.
- i voted in favour of the report on women and climate change because the effects of climate change do not affect men and women, rich and poor, developed and developing countries equally.
women are more affected by poverty (70% of the poor are women) and are more vulnerable to the impacts of climate change.
− regardless of the gender perspective, any climate change policy, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis, must seek economic efficiency and sustainability, putting innovation and research at the service of new techniques and new solutions that are more environmentally friendly and equally efficient and competitive.
the focus should be on clean energy, more efficient use of natural resources and strong investment in research and more environmentally friendly technologies in order to maintain european competitiveness and enable job creation in a sustainable development framework.
the resolution under consideration, drawn up by mrs nicole kiil-nielsen, draws our attention to a new problem, namely the awareness of the influence that the gender dimension can (or does) have on climate change.
the role played by women in many societies gives them an importance in the management of some natural resources with a direct impact on environmental sustainability.
in fact, they are the largest users of water (cooking and cleaning) and of forest products as a source of energy on a daily basis.
this matter is of particular relevance when we consider that, in the event of environmental disasters, about 85% of the victims and 75% of the refugees are women.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i am confident that more responsible and conscious climate action can contribute to improving the quality of life of people in many parts of the world, and particularly in the most disadvantaged regions.
- this report addresses the issue of climate change from a gender perspective.
it is recalled that, as the report states, the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has confirmed that the impact of climate change varies according to gender, age and social class, with the poorest people being the most affected.
we agree with the integration of the gender dimension into all policies, including climate policies.
the report also highlights the positive aspects of the development of implementation plans and evaluation of policies and projects; the adaptation of evaluation and action development tools for environmental protection, with reference to local projects on specific issues and with a focus on women; and the gradual, new and additional increase in funding, calling for the integration of gender equality as a horizontal issue in all climate funds and instruments.
given the differentiated roles of men and women, the impact of women on the environment is not the same as that of men, and their access to resources and ways of positioning and adapting themselves can be affected by discrimination in terms of income, access to resources, political power, education and household responsibility.
climate change can increase inequalities, and there is a risk that climate change policies, if they do not address gender discrimination from the outset, could have a negative impact on gender balance and women's rights.
− this report focuses on the effects of climate change on increasing inequalities between women and men.
the rapporteur believes that climate change will have a disproportionate impact on women, as this gender inequality is present in all areas of society.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
however, i disagree with the need to introduce quotas in eu climate diplomacy, as they are an undervaluation of the genre itself.
- it is pertinent in this report to consider that dangerous climate change should be the eu's top priority.
we reaffirm, however, that more than climate change, it is the capitalist system and its mode of production that by its nature depletes natural resources, jeopardizes the survival of man, and deepens inequalities in access to the quality of life between the working class and the bourgeoisie.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) itself has confirmed that the impact of climate change varies according to gender, age and social class, with those most affected being mainly segments of the population living in poverty.
we welcome the recommendation to mainstream gender in all phases of climate policies and to set gender equality and equity targets in all policy areas, so that climate action does not exacerbate inequalities between men and women.
the pressures and needs at local and regional level, which require substantial economic development, are understandable, and so i think it is important to point out to local and regional authorities that they should be aware of the necessary balance between development and the need to protect biodiversity and natural habitats.
for example, the azores are at the forefront of biodiversity protection, seeking to implement energy plans, tourism activities, etc.
that value and protect their biodiversity.
as such, regional and local development policies should induce biodiversity benefits and halt further habitat loss.
− i voted in favour of the report on our life insurance and our natural capital - eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 because biodiversity is not incompatible with development.
biodiversity is a guarantee of life.
− within the framework of the eu biodiversity strategy, the union as a whole, and with particular attention to all areas covered by community policies, must find a sustainable strategy for the protection of biodiversity and the preservation of ecosystems.
i believe that this is particularly relevant in the area of agriculture and fisheries, which is why i am following the reforms of the cfp and the cap with particular attention, since the proper and sustainable preservation of biodiversity, while essential and desirable, cannot be a brake on the sustainability and development of agricultural and fisheries activities.
− the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 is part of the flagship initiative for a resource-efficient europe and aims to provide the opportunity to take the necessary measures to secure nature and ecosystem services for future generations.
this is the right time to mainstream biodiversity in all policy areas as major european policies are currently being reviewed.
the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy, common fisheries policy and the european roadmaps for energy, transport and resource efficiency will be transposed into legislation.
it is now time to show that the warm words about biodiversity also translate into concrete policy measures.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that political support for biodiversity must now be translated into effective and integrated policy measures in all policy areas.
we are pleased that several of the amendments we proposed in the committee on the environment have been adopted.
as a consequence, the report contains some serious omissions on the one hand and, on the other, views and guidelines that we do not share, such as those on the european commission's proposals for reforms of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy (which we welcome), or the whole of the so-called business and biodiversity aspect.
− the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 gives us the opportunity to take the necessary steps to secure nature and ecosystem services for future generations.
the main objective is to mainstream biodiversity in all policy fields.
the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy, common fisheries policy and the european roadmaps for energy, transport and resource efficiency will be transposed into legislation.
the objectives set out in the eu biodiversity strategy by 2020 can be achieved.
all we need is a transposition into policy measures of the political support for biodiversity expressed by many world leaders.
the objectives set out in the eu biodiversity strategy by 2020 can be achieved through the transposition of policy measures to support biodiversity.
− the safeguarding of biodiversity must be a cross-cutting element in the eu's sectoral policies.
in parallel, the eu diversity strategy to 2020 should be present in the eu's external policy as a way of calling on third countries to provide an appropriate and timely response to ensure the sustainability of natural ecosystems.
i regret that the objectives of the 2010 strategy have not been fully achieved, and therefore i consider it key to mainstream biodiversity in all eu sectoral policies in order to achieve one of the pillars of the eu 2020 strategy.
there are, however, some recommendations that we could never follow up, in particular those concerning the european commission's proposals for reforms of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy, and all the emphasis placed on the idea of business and biodiversity.
environmental concerns should never be seen as an 'opportunity' for business to be set up for profit.
− i approve this report, considering that the seventh environment action programme (eap) should provide the appropriate framework to ensure sufficient funding, in particular for innovation, research and development, and that the funding of environmental objectives, in synergy with the life programme, and that the full integration of environmental protection should be an important part of the next multiannual financial framework, the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap), the common fisheries policy (cfp), cohesion policy and the horizon 2020 programme.
i believe that the seventh eap should provide a comprehensive framework to enable us to address recurrent and emerging environmental and sustainability challenges, taking due account of existing and planned measures and taking into account the outermost regions, which are seen as an added value in terms of environmental value and can make this programme an opportunity to promote the sustainable development of these regions.
- i voted in favour of the report on the review of the sixth environment action programme and the setting of priorities for the seventh environment action programme, because i consider it essential to ensure a rapid transition to the next programme and to avoid any gaps.
the continuity of the environment action programmes should be ensured as a guiding framework for eu environmental policy and with a view to further integrating environmental objectives into all sectoral policies.
− the sixth environment action programme will end in july 2012 and the final evaluation, published on 31 august 2011, concluded that overall it has provided a comprehensive framework for environmental policy, during which environmental legislation has been consolidated and completed in a significant way, and that adoption through the co-decision process has increased its legitimacy and helped create a sense of ownership for subsequent policy proposals.
the priorities for the seventh programme must now be set, at a time when the environmental challenge is of the utmost importance and is far from being met.
by 2050, improving global environmental performance is urgently needed and this requires a commitment to a greener and more sustainable economy in a framework of competitiveness, employment and job creation.
− the sixth environment action programme has provided a comprehensive framework for environmental policy, during which environmental legislation has been consolidated and supplemented in a significant way.
the adoption of the environment action programme through the co-decision process has increased its legitimacy and helped to create a sense of ownership for subsequent policy proposals.
however, the present situation as regards the environment is far from satisfactory.
scientific data clearly show that we cannot maintain the current situation, as it puts too much pressure on the ability of the planet to support the demand for resources and services linked to ecosystems or to absorb pollution.
i therefore consider it important to adopt a seventh environmental action programme which ensures the strengthening of environmental legislation, which addresses environmental policies in a transversal and integrated manner and which has an international dimension in environmental protection.
− the sixth environment action programme ends on 22 july 2012, so this report takes stock and redefines priorities for the subsequent programme.
the report makes positive points, including the advocacy of an appropriate framework to ensure sufficient funding for innovation, research and development; the advocacy of funding for environmental objectives taking into account the protection of biodiversity and forests; efficient and sustainable use of resources, providing the necessary synergy with the life programme; the provision of sufficient resources for the conservation of the natura 2000 network; and the full integration of environmental protection as an important part of the next multiannual financial framework (mff).
it should be borne in mind that the future environment programme, in addition to a framework to ensure coherence between the various environmental policies and actions, lacks coherence between the objectives proclaimed in the field of the environment and the other sectoral policies, a coherence which does not exist today.
− a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are the conditions for ensuring the quality of life and preserving the stability of ecosystems.
environment action programmes have guided the development of eu environmental policy since the early 1970s.
they have been an important driving force for the adoption of strong community environmental legislation, particularly in areas such as air, water, waste and climate.
environmental protection enhances quality of life, including by protecting ecosystems and their services, halting biodiversity loss, ensuring better air quality, reducing noise, creating jobs and growth, and ensuring the well-being of current and future generations.
however, given that the environment is not in a satisfactory state, we must immediately start the seventh environmental action programme.
- i agree with the rapporteur when he says that the seventh environment action programme must provide a strong comprehensive framework to ensure coherence.
it should ensure that all current 2020 environmental objectives in the different policy areas are included and analysed together and should also provide a clear and ambitious vision for 2050 in order to offer a long-term perspective to all stakeholders.
− environment action programmes aim to define the environmental policy of the european union, playing a central role in the legislative guidance in the environmental areas of air, water, waste and climate.
the sixth environment action programme ends in july 2012 and a thorough evaluation and the definition of strategic priorities for the subsequent programme is needed.
i agree with the present report that it gives a positive assessment of the action of the sixth environmental programme, but it also considers that many of the objectives set have not been met and should therefore continue to be a priority in the future programme.
i believe that the seventh action programme should establish a rigorous environmental policy and be closely aligned with the economic development of nations, set concrete targets for 2020 and define an ambitious long-term vision that will make it possible to achieve a sustainable future and improve the quality of life of the people.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the european union's international role in the area of climate change, efficient and sustainable use of resources, biodiversity, forests and environmental quality needs to be strengthened.
− the report makes positive points: advocating an 'appropriate framework to ensure sufficient funding' for innovation, research and development; advocating that funding for environmental objectives take into account the protection of biodiversity and forests, an efficient and sustainable use of resources, providing the necessary synergy with the life programme; providing sufficient resources for the conservation of the natura 2000 network; and fully integrating environmental protection as an important part of the next multiannual financial framework (mff).
we reiterate, however, that there is an incompatibility between the economic policies of the european union in general and the stated objectives of environmental protection.
a europe based on common values and seeking to ensure peace, security, human dignity, democracy, justice, solidarity, sustainable development and quality of life for its 500 million citizens.
on the contrary, we must increasingly seek a genuine common voice, restore dignity to the principle of european solidarity, face the problem of population decline and, at the same time, the enormous growth of migratory pressures, combat the ongoing economic crisis, increase the levels of economic growth, ensure the sustainability of the european economy and strengthen the single currency by reducing the high levels of unemployment, with particular emphasis on the younger age group.
the free trade agreements have only proved to date that they have meant the loss of sovereignty of peoples, the appropriation by multinational companies of natural resources and biodiversity, the increase in external dependence on third countries and the disaster in productive sectors in some member states.
this requires a proper connection with other modes of transport, such as rail or maritime transport, ensuring conditions for the mobility of people and goods, which take into account essential environmental sustainability criteria.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− the transmission of data and the circulation of official information via the internet and the environmental awareness of the need to reduce the felling of trees for the paper industry have led many companies and public bodies to reduce their paper-based communications by opting for electronic means.
the proposal also has an undeniable environmental advantage.
this innovation also introduces significant savings and reduces the environmental impact of the activities of the european institutions.
in particular, in a time of economic crisis, if it is important to avoid a proliferation of regional airports that would not meet either efficiency or sustainability criteria, it is also essential to maintain and strengthen existing links with regions affected by less favourable geographical conditions and to promote better links between regional airports and neighbouring cities, which could bring clear benefits in terms of reducing congestion at central airports.
however, in addition to the economic hurdles, we also face obstacles related to the impact of aviation on the environment, congestion and safety itself.
the report stresses that the management of community funds - the european regional development fund, the cohesion fund, the european social fund, energy and transport - has been subject to an increase in the error rate, which is caused by the mismanagement of these funds by the member states.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
the committee of the regions, based in brussels, is an advisory body of the council, the commission and the european parliament representing local and regional authorities in the eu and is to be consulted on matters relating to local and regional government, such as employment, the environment, education and public health.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− as a native of a country with a history closely linked to the sea and hence to fishing, i understand the need for the european union to have a community fisheries control agency which, among other responsibilities, coordinates the fight against illegal fishing, which threatens the sustainability of this activity, the employment of fishermen who comply with the rules on catching, transporting and conditioning fish and the marine ecosystems themselves.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
in view of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i therefore vote in favour of this report to give the director of the eccdd discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
the safety of the public and the environment require such rigour and call for particular attention.
however, i agree with the rapporteur that echa should follow the recommendations made to it when the discharge was granted for 2009. in view of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i therefore vote in favour of this report to give the director of echa discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 2010 discharge: european environment agency, because i believe that this agency plays a key role in ensuring a high level of environmental protection in the eu.
- environmental protection is a contemporary protection which has long since ceased to be the exclusive domain of a particular ideology or political family.
today this concern for nature conservation is common to most developed societies and reflects the extent to which they are confronted with the need to adapt their growth to their sustainability.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
the european environment agency is charged with advising on the best decisions to be made and is charged with being able to carry out independent assessments and not being subject to any particular demanding agenda.
- the report under review, by monica luisa macovei, deals with the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency, eea, for the financial year 2010. the eea, which was set up in 1993, currently has 32 members: the 27 member states of the european union plus norway, switzerland, liechtenstein, iceland and turkey.
its aim is to help the eu and national governments make informed decisions on the environment.
i welcome the high levels of budget implementation in terms of committed appropriations (100%) and payment appropriations (90.75%) and, while i understand the need to improve its performance, in particular in the inclusion of measurable objectives and indicators, i am voting against this report, as i believe that, as with other agencies, the executive director of the eea should also be given a discharge for the implementation of its budget for the year 2010, in accordance with the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
− we support the rapporteur's position to postpone the discharge to the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2010. we believe that the conflicts of interest involving senior officials of the agency, as well as the uncertainties about the real value of the reports produced by the agency, should be clarified.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
in this particular case, the court of auditors has some doubts about the performance of the european environment agency.
on the basis of these assumptions, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of the european environment agency.
therefore, despite the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and taking into account the recommendations of the ombudsman, i am voting in favour of this report to postpone the discharge to the executive director of easa for the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
i therefore vote against this report, taking into account the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that, as with other agencies, the executive director of the ema should also be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
- i voted in favour of this report, which approves the discharge to be given to the director of the european maritime safety agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. the company has a number of tasks, including ensuring a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution caused by community vessels.
- the report under consideration, drawn up by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) for the financial year 2010. emsa, established in 2002 and based in lisbon, provides technical support and advice to the european union (eu) and its member states on the development and implementation of legislation in the following areas: maritime safety, maritime security and prevention and response to pollution from ships.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− i approve this report, taking into account that the court of auditors, in its report for the financial year 2010, highlighted the non-compliance of the agency's statute with article 54 of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community, that the agency did not receive any grant to finance its activities and that the commission bore all the costs incurred by the agency in implementing its budget.
− the european atomic energy community (euratom) is involved in the fields of atomic energy, including research, the development of safety standards and the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− i voted in favour of this report approving the discharge to be given to the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. this company was set up for efficient research performance, entitled 'research agenda', for the development of key technologies in the field of computer systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen europe's competitiveness and sustainability and enable the emergence of new markets.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
that is why i am voting in favour of the clean sky report - aeronautics and the environment.
- having called on clean sky - aeronautics and environment to implement the necessary measures to complete its internal controls and financial reporting system, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thus discharging clean sky's 2010 accounts.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− this joint undertaking contributes to the work of euratom, the international fusion energy organisation iter, with a view to the rapid realisation of fusion energy, and to the development and coordination of a programme of activities in preparation for the construction of a demonstration fusion reactor (demo) and associated facilities, notably the international fusion materials irradiation facility (ifmif).
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is appropriate.
− noting that the joint undertaking's internal control systems have not yet been fully developed and implemented as required by its financial regulation, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
the spectrum is being filled but the environmental and public health impact of this occupation is not properly assessed nor are rules imposed, despite the warnings made by many studies; the urgent need to increase the number of technical applications and their rapid commercialisation by the sector's monopolies overrides the need to safeguard public health, which could have disastrous consequences for people and for life on the planet.
- i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the eu should continue to be a leader in environmental legislation and i agree that derogations from the icp procedure should be limited, as it is the eu's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals it exports do not cause unnecessary harm to humans or the environment.
- i voted in favour of the report on exports and imports of dangerous chemicals because i believe that the agreement reached with the council introduces important provisions for the protection of human health and the environment by applying the prior information and consent procedure provided for in the rotterdam convention.
the main aim is to allow chemicals produced in the european union, which meet all eu environmental and health legislation standards, to be allowed to enter world markets, and to be replaced by chemicals with lower quality standards.
in doing so, the european union ensures not only the export of its chemicals, protecting the european chemical industry, but also a high degree of environmental protection.
the chemicals listed in parts 2 and 3 of annex i to the pic regulation are banned or severely restricted in the eu because they often pose risks to the environment and/or human health.
i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the derogations should be limited to the pic procedure, as it is the eu's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals we export do not cause unnecessary harm to humans or the environment.
therefore, care should be taken that manufacturers of chemicals banned or restricted in the eu, who normally choose to export, in particular to countries with more permeable legislation, can only do so by formally certifying that, when exporting these products, the third countries receiving them are not against their reception, given that certain chemicals entail a risk to public health and the environment, which is the central issue of this regulation.
- i voted in favour of the report because i think that, compared with the commission's proposal, it contains better provisions to protect public health, the environment and the economy itself.
the eu must be committed to safeguarding public health and the environment, not the profits of european manufacturers of chemicals banned in the eu.
- i voted in favour of this report on the regulation of trade in dangerous chemicals, because it is concerned with ensuring the safety of citizens and the protection of the environment.
− it is the eu's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals it exports do not cause unnecessary harm to humans or the environment.
for this reason, and because i believe that the eu should continue to be a leader in environmental legislation, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
it should be stressed that we must remain cautious about the possibility of applying derogations from the pic procedure with regard to exports of chemicals considered harmful or dangerous to third countries, as it is the eu's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals we export do not cause harm to humans or the environment.
the eu needs to fully coordinate its trade, investment and financing support activities in the region to ensure maximum positive impact, and it is of concern that the significant number of actors, both internally and within the eu, as well as in the partner countries themselves, and other external actors, could lead to waste or duplication of efforts due to lack of coordination.
this is where the eu will have an important role to play, provided that the appropriate political, social and environmental commitments are made and implemented by the countries of the southern mediterranean (sme).
it therefore advocates the use of the infamous free trade agreements, which have proved to this day that they only mean the loss of the sovereignty of peoples, the appropriation by multinationals of natural resources and biodiversity, the increase in external dependence on third countries and the disaster in productive sectors in some member states, particularly those like portugal which have a more fragile economic situation.
we need a climate of honesty, because life cannot be patented.
in order to treat differently what is different, i believe that patents can be granted in the field of genetic engineering, but that the prohibition of patents relating to plant varieties and animal breeds must be safeguarded, considering that the production of plants is essential to the security of food supply and, to some extent, to the supply of energy.
the policies of liberalization, privatisation and deregulation of the economy, have meant for the economically most vulnerable countries the destruction of their productive capacity, the decline of their exports, the increase of imports in sectors such as energy and food, which have left them in situations of extreme external dependence.
the increasing number of enterprises closing, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, the destruction of thousands of jobs, the increase in levels of poverty, exclusion and inequalities, the loss of workers' rights and the generalization of precariousness in labour relations, the privatization of energy, transport, postal, telecommunications, banking, insurance sectors, the liberalization of essential public services.
at present, eu criminal law includes a wide range of rules that are not just jha policy instruments, but that range from the financial sector to fraud, counterfeiting, serious breaches of eu data protection rules, customs offences, environmental offences and certain aspects of internal market policies.
the rapporteur proposes that the european commission and the member states develop strategies to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers (in areas such as telecommunications, access to justice, energy, transport, etc.).
the present report aims precisely to contribute to the creation of a strategy to strengthen the rights of the most vulnerable consumers, calling in this regard on the commission and the member states to adopt specific measures to ensure their adequate protection, especially in those sectors where the level of vulnerability has been shown to be highest (financial sector, food, transport, internet, access to justice, transport and energy) and specifically in the consumer agenda and the consumer programme for 2014-2020. i voted in favour.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the single market was described in the krakow declaration in 2011 as the most powerful tool to put europe back on the path to sustainable growth and job creation.
− i voted in favour of this report because i believe that turkey, as a candidate country for eu membership, should be invited to support the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and to allow women to participate more actively in the labour market, and should be urged to step up its efforts to implement comprehensive reforms to meet the copenhagen criteria, in favour of its own modernisation, and to create an environment of mutual understanding and respect among the 27 eu member states, thus enabling an exchange of good practices on gender equality among all, for the benefit of women in turkey.
similarly, a single desk under the responsibility of the vice-president, which in turn ensures a stable environment, to deal with citizens' initiatives, would be a step forward.
there were clean energy projects, transport, new technologies, innovation, and even then the role of the european investment bank and the structural funds were equalised.
good management of bluefin tuna, which can only be ensured by appropriate multiannual recovery plans, is imperative from an environmental as well as an economic and social perspective, ensuring that this valuable resource, which is a driving force behind an important fishing sector, is maintained in the future.
it is important that the european unit exercises real influence within icat in promoting and implementing sustainable and global conservation levels for all operators.
we trust this agreement will help our partner countries on their path to economic growth and development, contributing to fighting poverty, promoting social cohesion and sustainable development.
we also suggest that our partner countries should create a transparent and binding road map, possibly with the support of the commission, regarding human labour rights and sustainable development.
president santos will be remembered for what he is presently doing in colombia, be it in the fields of human rights, labour activists, sustainable development or indigenous peoples’ rights.
− sustainable management of fisheries resources is one of the european union's (eu) concerns, especially when it comes to endangered species.
- i approve of this report, considering the new requirements imposed on the need for double hulls for ships to be important, justified for environmental reasons, but at the same time i share the rapporteur's position, in that the scope of the delegation of powers in the commission is excessively wide, and the duration of the commission's powers to adopt delegated acts should be limited, with a report which will allow parliament and the council to assess future proposals.
the objective of this regulation is to reduce the risks of accidental pollution by hydrocarbons in european waters by introducing double-hulling.
this double hull design protects cargo tanks against breakdown and can prevent future tragedies such as the ecological catastrophes caused by the erika and prestige shipwrecks in 1999.
in writing.
- we all remember the ecological disasters caused by the breakdown of single-hull tankers, such as the famous prestige.
environmental safety requires it.
we all remember the ecological catastrophes caused by the black tides following the sinking of oil tankers such as the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002. since most tankers use the single hull system, which in the event of a spill immediately causes direct spillage into the water with serious consequences for marine flora and fauna, it is understandable that the most effective solution is to equip these vessels with a double hull.
− the introduction of double-hull construction requirements or equivalent design standards for single-hull oil tankers is a matter of great importance, particularly in view of the well-known cases of the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, which caused extremely serious ecological disasters.
the objective of this regulation is therefore to reduce the risks of accidental pollution by hydrocarbons in water.
the serious accidents of oil tankers and the resulting pollution of the coasts and the resulting damage to marine fauna, flora and other marine resources justify this position and therefore more stringent and effective measures should be taken at international and union level to significantly improve maritime safety.
black tides caused by oil tanker sinkings, such as those of the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, are extremely serious ecological disasters and tragedies for marine fauna and flora.
− the objective of this regulation is to reduce the risks of accidental pollution by hydrocarbons in european waters by accelerating the introduction of double-hulled vessels.
the accelerated introduction of double-hull construction requirements or equivalent design standards for single-hull oil tankers is a matter of great importance as it helps to prevent ecological disasters such as those experienced by the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002. i therefore voted in favour.
- the catastrophic oil spills caused by the sinking of the erika and prestige oil tankers, with the destruction of marine and coastal biodiversity, are imperative enough for accelerated action to be taken on the requirements for the construction of oil tankers.
− the objective of this regulation is to reduce the risks of accidental pollution by hydrocarbons in waters by introducing double-hull construction requirements or equivalent design standards for single-hull oil tankers.
to avoid ecological accidents such as those which have already occurred, these measures are absolutely necessary, and we have therefore supported the report.
the new protocol promotes responsible and sustainable fishing and allows the promotion of a cooperative relationship based on respect for the laws and regulations in force in the eu and mozambique in the field of fisheries.
- i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that sustainable fishing practices, greater transparency in identification procedures and improved monitoring and control infrastructures for fishing activities in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of mozambique should be promoted.
the new protocol, which will apply from 1 january 2012 to 31 december 2014, will allow european shipowners (43 fishing vessels and 32 longliners) to continue to benefit from fishing licences for mozambican waters, while promoting a policy of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
the agreement also emphasises sustainable fishing and control and obliges eu vessel owners to employ local seafarers.
− this report supports the continuation of the eu-mozambique agreement to enable the eu to exploit in a sustainable way the surplus fishery resources of mozambique, thus giving expression to one of the most important aspects of the common fisheries policy, namely its external dimension.
at the same time, the report echoes important general concerns that i too have expressed about sustainable fisheries agreements, in terms of the frequent decline in fishing opportunities and the increase in financial contributions, which should be taken into account by the european commission.
on the other hand, the serious financial difficulties faced by many member states prevent them from addressing future challenges, such as financing growth and sustainable development.
on the other hand, the serious financial difficulties faced by many member states prevent them from addressing future challenges, such as financing growth and sustainable development.
the application of a financial transaction tax has as its main objectives: to make the financial sector pay the costs of this crisis, as other sectors do; to discourage highly speculative and risky activities and to reorient the sector towards long-term productive investments; to implement a complementary measure to financial market regulation, avoiding future crises; and finally to generate additional revenue for eu own resources or associated with eu public policies and goods, in particular development aid, combating climate change.
the differences in access to their markets by external investors, as well as in workers' rights and levels of social and environmental responsibility and accountability, which have justified the relocation of formerly european-based industries, are also evident.
the rights of workers are not respected, nor are the rights of authors, and there are no concerns about the environment.
the european union must work with the major regional actors under the aegis of the un, ecowas, the african union and the cplp to implement a rescue operation for a country which is now on the edge of the list of failed states, plagued by extreme poverty, bad governance and the waste of its human and natural resources.
mr president, the industrial societies are built on the consumption of enormous amounts of energy and increasingly scarce mineral resources.
the sustainable and efficient use of resources requires a profound change in current production and consumption patterns.
for example, we must question free trade and the unsustainable flows of energy and materials associated with it, we must focus on local production and consumption, short supply chains, public transport.
the eu must make better use of resources for the sake of the environment and its future economic growth.
this would mean economic growth, job creation and environmental protection.
the member states should converge towards polluter-payer taxation, which would stimulate environmental protection and technological innovation and would allow for cuts in other taxes, such as labour taxes.
inefficient use and waste of resources should be more severely penalized in order to help boost competitiveness while preserving the environment.
it is recalled that ukraine is a pivotal point for the geostrategic interests of some eu powers, particularly in the energy field.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it should also be remembered that ukraine has a pivotal role for the interests of the us/main eu powers, notably in the energy field and in the geostrategic field for nato in its encirclement of russia.
− energy efficiency is one of the european union's flagships, the main lines of which have been detailed in the european commission's roadmap for a resource efficient europe.
i therefore support all measures that can put europe on the path to optimising its energy resources, and even more so to contributing to the creation of jobs and the subsequent well-being of europeans in this sector of economic activity which is really expanding.
against this background, the need for an innovative approach is evident, which, while promoting european competitiveness and economic growth, provides for a reduction of environmental impacts and implements a green economy where natural resources are managed in a sustainable way.
this requires close cooperation between the public and private sectors and better coordination with academic centres of excellence developing projects in the areas of food and energy efficiency.
but unfortunately, like others, this report is a paradigm of a markedly commercial approach to environmental problems.
for example, the creation of a common and solid agenda between the public and private sectors, which is aimed at opening the door to processes of liberalization of the waste market, with the privatization of waste management and collection.
the logic of making citizens responsible is emphasised at various levels, both by internalizing the external environmental costs, in accordance with the polluter-pays principle, and by choosing products that are more sustainable, reducing waste and its impacts, stressing that what is really needed is to change the current production and consumption models and the economic system underlying them - capitalism - which is intrinsically unsustainable and predatory on the environment and its resources.
the commission must therefore pay attention to this question, as well as to the energy question.
− while the stated objective of this report is positive, it approaches environmental problems in a mercantilist way.
we do not agree with the creation of a common and solid agenda between the public and private sectors, which is aimed at nothing more than opening the door to processes of liberalization of the waste market, with the privatization of waste management and collection.
what really needs to be taken into account and changed are the modes of production and consumption inherent in the capitalist system, which exploits the environment and its resources for the benefit of a few.
i fully support the priorities for external energy policy expressed in the report.
these are strengthening the external dimension of the internal energy market, strengthening partnerships for secure, sustainable and competitive energy, improving access to sustainable energy for developing countries and promoting eu policies beyond its borders.
europe's external dependence on energy supply will continue to grow over the next few years, despite the progressive integration of renewable energy sources and expected gains in energy efficiency.
a fragmented approach to external energy policy only makes each member state more vulnerable to an uncertain geopolitical context, weakening europe.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs, jean-paul gauzès and elisa ferreira, on the work they have done in this two-pack which, together with the six-pack, could form an eight-pack of solutions that the european parliament has helped to create for this crisis, a solution which is based on the following premise: there can be only sustainable growth with disciplined public finances, this is the starting point, the starting point for the challenges we have for the future, the challenge of growth, growth naturally needs political stability, social stability and european solutions.
the solidarity fund is mainly used in cases of major natural disasters with serious repercussions on the living conditions of citizens, the natural environment or the economy of one or more regions of a member state or of a country applying for accession to the european union (eu).
unfortunately, the eu and its member states are not immune to such disasters either, and given the increasing rate of climate change and the increased likelihood of more frequent and more intense natural disasters, maximum solidarity is needed, particularly in the area of assistance operations, as well as the rapid mobilisation of the instruments at the eu's disposal.
this should make us reflect on how we have been managing natural resources and how we have been taking care that the technique and technology we have today are designed to do without a good understanding of the environment in which we are placed.
the new icd programming should continue the fight against climate change through specific funds and programmes, especially with a view to adaptation in vulnerable countries in latin america.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider it necessary to strengthen coordination between the european union and latin america in the implementation of the millennium development goals (mdgs), especially actions aimed at combating poverty, creating jobs and social inclusion of marginalised groups, as well as mitigating the impact of climate change on sustainable development, the protection of biodiversity, deforestation and agricultural production in latin america.
we need to rethink and act more effectively in our policy of cooperation and development with latin america: to address the specificities of each country through a differentiated approach in line with our trade policy, making resources available through the icd for the improvement of living conditions and promoting equity, decent work, reform of judicial systems, the fight against violence and crime, the conservation of biodiversity and sustainable development of the region.
− the eu's development cooperation policy must be consistent with other union policies and together play a key role in achieving the millennium development goals and in fulfilling international commitments on human rights, food security and environmental sustainability.
it also states that the union should seek to develop relations and create partnerships with third countries, supporting sustainable development in the economic, social and environmental fields of developing countries, with the primary objective of poverty eradication.
it is essential that eu development cooperation policy and, in particular, coherence between union policies play a key role in achieving the millennium development goals and in fulfilling international commitments on human rights, food security and environmental sustainability.
the overall objective of this development cooperation is essentially to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable economic and social development.
progress is needed on the conclusion of a partnership agreement with central america, the creation of an investment facility for latin america and the establishment of dialogues on climate change, innovation, drugs or migration.
there is a growing number of citizens of all ages involved in a variety of fields such as education, culture, youth, sport, the environment and relations with third countries.
unfortunately, the need for budgetary consolidation threatens the financial sustainability of many ngos, so it is necessary to ensure adequate and stable funding and to simplify administrative procedures.
− volunteering plays a major role in the economic and social sustainability of europe.
in addition to increasing people's tolerance, it creates human and social capital and plays a very strong role in the fields of humanitarian aid and cooperation, whether in post-crisis or disaster situations or in the sustainable development process across borders.
− the initiatives organised last year under the european year of volunteering have demonstrated the growing importance of the volunteering phenomenon on the european continent in a range of areas, from education to culture, youth policies, sport, environmental protection and sustainable development, health, immigration, advocacy, corporate social responsibility and in the eu's relations with third countries, involving some 100 million of our fellow citizens and contributing to around 5% of european gdp.
unfortunately, the economic crisis and budgetary consolidation are threatening the financial sustainability of many ngos and volunteers who work daily to enhance active citizenship, solidarity and social inclusion across europe, as the economic crisis and political-economic constraints have an objective impact on sustainable funding and fundraising for these activities.
first of all, i would like to welcome the importance which the european institutions intend to attach to this solidarity work, with a view to recognising it and creating the conditions for more citizens to be able to devote themselves to this noble cause in any of the following areas: social, environmental and heritage.
the times we live in and the need for budgetary consolidation threaten the financial sustainability of many ngos, so it is necessary to ensure adequate and stable funding and to simplify administrative procedures.
− the role of technology has been expanding more and more in everyone's daily lives, from communication to finance and banking, from transport to energy, and from culture to entertainment and health.
- i support this report, considering that greater coordination between the member states and the european union is urgently needed in order to work together to increase europe's influence in the world in the field of energy and to ensure its supply.
it is necessary not only in the energy field, but also in all the other areas that we can call global, that the european union fulfils its duty to speak with one voice in the world, otherwise it will lose its negotiating power and its political credibility in the international arena.
− i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to ensure reliable and cost-competitive access to global energy supply in order to support europe's competitiveness and security in the light of the eu's current policy objectives set out in the 20-20-20 package and the long-term commitment to decarbonise our economy by 2050; because i believe that pooling of efforts in r & d and innovation (rdi) at eu level will allow for better quality and more efficient, economical and dynamic research than if it were undertaken by individual member states; and because i support our continued efforts to seek cooperation with third countries on r & d with a view to maximising mutual benefits at international level.
− the availability of secure, sustainable and competitive energy is of paramount importance to the eu economy, industry and citizens and is one of the central objectives of european policies.
it is worth noting that the eu imports more than 60% of its gas and more than 80% of its oil, facing increasing competition for fossil fuel resources, including from emerging countries and energy producers themselves.
in addition, dependence on energy imports will tend to increase over the next decade due to the depletion of domestic resources.
experience has shown that bilateral energy relations established individually between member states and third country or transit country suppliers may result in the fragmentation of the internal market rather than in the strengthening of the eu's energy supply and competitiveness.
i therefore believe that a fully integrated european energy market, which operates on the basis of solidarity and responds to the challenges of energy supply, is vital.
only a coherent and coordinated approach between the member states, the commission and the council will allow for a strong external position of the eu's energy objectives and guarantee a better negotiating position vis-à-vis third countries.
- i voted in favour of the report on cooperation on energy policy with partners beyond our borders, because i support the need for the eu to act in a coordinated way to define a common position in negotiations with third countries and thus guarantee the security of energy supply.
- the events of the so-called arab spring have made even more evident the energy dependence of which the european union is suffering today and the insecurity which some of its suppliers are experiencing.
the diversification of internal and external energy sources and the creation of national and european energy pools, which include energy from a sufficient number of sources to allow competition, should therefore be encouraged.
the importance of the energy question is such that it must increasingly be considered as one of the main european priorities and the pursuit of a common policy in this area must therefore be encouraged.
- the rapid technological evolution we have seen in recent years has led to a significant increase in global energy consumption.
despite the growing emphasis on the exploitation of renewable energy sources, the truth is that we remain very dependent on so-called fossil fuels.
the report by edit herczog deals with the issue of how to strengthen cooperation on energy policy with partners beyond our borders: a strategic approach to secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply.
while our energy partnerships to the east and south are important, the european union (eu) cannot fail to look for other markets, always demanding compliance with community criteria, especially with regard to the exploitation of raw materials and environmental protection.
these partnerships should take the broadest possible approach and ensure stable energy flows.
i am aware of the importance of energy in all areas and i voted in favour of this report.
i hope, however, that the eu will speak with one voice on energy and support the technological development of renewable energy and the installation of such equipment, thus contributing to the relaunch of economic growth and job creation.
− the whole of this report is based on the idea of implementing and strengthening the internal energy market, the undeniable negative consequences of which have been worsening, particularly since the creation of the energy community in 2006, which established the internal market for electricity and gas.
given the current energy dependence of the eu, and the trend towards an increasing population and consumption in the coming decades, this document does not hide concerns about future energy supply.
- the european union's energy dependence and the insecurity of some of its suppliers are increasingly worrying.
it is becoming increasingly clear that over-dependence is bad if not well used, and that it can only be well implemented if there is a coherent and common energy market approach strategy by all member states.
we must therefore commit ourselves to a genuine common policy on energy policy.
- i have approved this report which calls for closer cooperation on energy policy with partners beyond our borders.
europe is a major buyer of energy in world energy markets.
a common negotiating approach, extending our sphere of influence beyond the borders of europe, in particular in the field of energy market rules, can be a plus for all.
− in september 2011, the european commission presented a communication on security of energy supply and international cooperation entitled 'eu energy policy: closing the gap with partners beyond our borders'.
i support this report because i believe that the eu must have a strong and effective position on the international scene, ensuring the energy it needs for its economic activities.
in order to increase energy sustainability and reduce europe's dependence on certain international actors, i believe it is important to diversify the suppliers and sources of energy supply to the european union, and it will also be necessary to promote new forms of energy exploitation, with particular emphasis on renewable energies.
− the whole report is based on the idea of strengthening, analysing and implementing the internal energy market, the undeniable negative consequences of which have been worsening, particularly since the creation of the energy community in 2006, which established the internal market for electricity and gas.
in the face of the current energy dependence of the eu and the trend of increasing population and consumption for the next few decades, this document points to solutions based on more of the same, i.e.
more internal energy market, and its full implementation as the centre of all action.
the square of the circle is also defended, while ensuring and enhancing security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability in a cost-effective way, continuing a policy of exploiting the energy resources of the eu as well as of third countries, with which the european external action services will take care to ensure that all multilateral and bilateral agreements of the eu [...] fully comply with the rules of the eu internal market.
these solutions are being unmasked by those who suffer the disastrous consequences, such as the populations who see the price of energy bills constantly rising and, consequently, access to energy increasingly difficult.
our security, trade and development or energy policies must ensure concrete results and democratic reforms in third countries and, to this end, invest in the empowerment of civil society as a priority in our external action.
− i approve these recommendations, agreeing in substance on the eu's role in the un, in particular with regard to global governance, peace and security, security council reform, development issues including sustainable development, climate change, human rights, justice and support for democracy.
i hope that the eu's participation will make a decisive contribution to the preparation of a post-2015 development framework in the context of the millennium development goals (mdgs), global sustainable development and international humanitarian aid to populations whose survival is at risk for political or climatic reasons.
given the importance of a strong and stable eu-un relationship for un activities, the eu must be on all fronts to strengthen the international criminal justice system, ensure greater protection and recognition of human rights, promote a culture of democracy and the rule of law, and take a leading role on climate issues by supporting biodiversity and climate protection in developing countries.
finally, it calls for greater integration of eu development policies at all levels, with due regard for both human rights and environmental protection.
− in the document adopted today, the european parliament addresses a number of recommendations to the council on the european union's position in the united nations system, with particular attention to issues of global governance, peace and security, international justice, human rights, support for democracy, development and climate change, environmental protection and sustainability.
although its scope is now wider for tradable products, the new programme (spg+) contains more demanding requirements such as the 27 assumptions on respect for human rights and environmental protection.
the objective of this important trade instrument is to enable developing countries to participate more fully in international trade and thus generate additional export revenues to support income growth and the implementation of their own sustainable development and poverty reduction policy strategies.
i voted in favour of this report because it is a factor in strengthening stability and confidence in the euro area countries, which are key to a sustainable recovery and to laying the foundations for growth in europe.
more europe and greater integration, towards a common future and a path of economic and environmental growth and development, peace, prosperity and shared happiness, as it has been for the past 55 years.
it therefore stresses the need for sound public finances and financial stability as a means of strengthening price stability and sustainable and strong growth in order to achieve the union's objectives of sustainable growth and employment.
i therefore welcome the creation of eurobonds, the defence of an ambitious investment plan that is in line with eu 2020 and the strengthening of the community method that stimulates economic growth that is smart, sustainable and inclusive.
the latter, with this report, is once again making its usual attempt to put the word 'growth' on policies and strategies which are themselves the negation of growth, but above all the negation of any prospect of sovereign, just and sustainable development.
i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and i fully agree with his position on pursuing projects which are aimed at energy efficiency and which are socially inclusive, always having respect for human rights as a cornerstone.
the ebrd mainly supports the development of the local sector: small and medium-sized enterprises, private individuals, municipalities, regional cooperation, innovation, job creation, energy, green projects, etc.
the commission is also calling for greater action in the field of energy efficiency, the fight against poverty and the protection of human rights, so as to achieve greater social cohesion.
it is also essential to improve the use of community funds, so that they are managed more efficiently and waste less.
on 8 june 2011, the european parliament (ep), in pursuance of the europe 2020 strategy, adopted a resolution entitled 'investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe'.
the connecting europe facility (eur 50 billion) will be extremely important for financing crossborder projects in the energy, transport and information technology sectors, and the erasmus for all proposal (eur 19 billion) demonstrates that the european union is concerned about the future of the new generations.
it is essential that the european union, the united nations and the entire international community coordinate their efforts to bring normalcy and peace to guinea, so that constitutional order, the rule of law, the freedoms and fundamental rights of the guinean people and the democratic and sustainable development of the country can be restored.
we warned that support for the destruction of the unity of the country could lead to an escalation of confrontation and a climate of destabilization between the two sides, with potential effects for the entire region.
in this previous resolution, we acknowledge and support the enormous efforts of the colombian and peruvian governments in defending human rights, labour rights, indigenous peoples and the environment in recent years and call for greater involvement of civil society in the practical implementation of these fundamental values on which we do not compromise and in accelerating the reforms underway, which we believe will improve the applicability and transparency of this agreement.
however, the agreement does not provide for a dispute settlement mechanism and sanctions are excluded in the event of a breach of the terms relating to trade and sustainable development.
at the moment, the workers and peoples of peru and colombia are fighting a courageous struggle against the free trade agreement which, like the previous ones, will lead to the attack on the achievements of the workers and the sovereignty of the peoples, the appropriation by multinationals of natural resources and biodiversity, the increase in unemployment, the ruin of millions of small farmers with consequent threats to food sovereignty and security.
the mandate will be for two and a half years, renewable in order to ensure continuity, consistency and democratic accountability.
the eusr shall be a person of international standing and international renown in the field of human rights, and his or her mandate shall be for a period of 2 years, renewable after consultation of the ep.
as the eu crisis is demonstrating, big capital in the eu is trying to get out of its crisis by increasing the exploitation of workers and by dominating natural resources, energy, food and markets.
the eu must continue to support the drc, in particular the victims of armed groups whose disarmament is essential and urgent for the establishment of a climate of peace and the implementation of much needed reforms in the country.
the construction of a democratic society requires above all a strong political will and an ambitious vision of political leaders, governments and the opposition, aiming at the creation of political institutions that guarantee the human, civil and political, social, economic and environmental rights of the population.
we propose concrete demands and interventions to support job creation, such as hiring subsidies for newly created jobs, a budget-neutral tax shift from labour to environmental taxes and greater support for business start-ups, self-employment and last, but not least, the social economy.
eliminating stereotypes and myths, changing gender representations and values that have perpetuated the existence of unequal relationships in the family, school and social environment are the main challenges.
− the conservation of fisheries resources is a matter of concern to the european institutions, since they are aware of the role of these resources in maintaining biodiversity and their contribution to human food.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important to prevent and reduce the likelihood and consequences of serious industrial accidents, which kill people, destroy public and private property and damage the environment.
− serious industrial accidents, such as those in seveso (italy, 1976), enschede (netherlands, 2000), toulouse (france, 2001) and buncefield (uk, 2005), have not only claimed many lives, but have also destroyed property and damaged the environment, causing irreparable damage.
- industrial accidents usually have devastating consequences: human casualties, air pollution and groundwater pollution.
the report under review, by jános áder, looks at the dangers associated with serious accidents involving dangerous substances in europe we have 2000 companies dealing with these matters - and aims to protect people, the environment and avoid wasting resources.
i welcome the package of measures now approved, which will allow member states to improve safety conditions, thus contributing to a higher level of protection for people and the environment.
involving large quantities of dangerous substances (or mixtures) and to limit the consequences of these accidents for man and the environment.
- the serious industrial accidents which have occurred in the past almost all over europe and which have had serious repercussions, such as loss of life, destruction of public and private property, as well as severe environmental damage, have forced the eu to adopt the seveso i and ii directives.
i therefore voted in favour of this report, because i believe that it is an important step towards preventing accidents such as those which have occurred in italy, france and the netherlands, which have claimed a great number of lives, destroyed public and private property and damaged the environment, and caused billions of euros in damage.
finally, i am in favour of the application of access to information and public participation in decision-making processes and access to justice in environmental matters.
the new proposal for a directive repeals the existing directive 96/82/ec, known as the seveso ii directive, which aims to prevent major accidents (such as those at seveso, bhopal, schweizerhalle, among others) involving large quantities of dangerous substances and to limit the consequences of these accidents for man and the environment.
the right of the public to know the procedures for participating in the decision-making process, to be informed on how to use them, to have access to information and finally to have access to justice in environmental matters is also valued.
i believe that only the completion of the single market, which takes account of the balanced development of the economy and of the social, economic and environmental dimensions, can be an excellent engine for the growth strategy of the european union.
the overall objective is to allow for more effective competition between european companies and to achieve more ambitious targets in a highly competitive environment, while ensuring that the interests of creditors, shareholders, members and employees are adequately protected.
this is why we welcome the recent public consultation by the commission on the future of european company law, which should point the way forward with legislative initiatives to simplify the environment for companies in the area of company law.
the commission has therefore done well to sponsor a public consultation on the future of european company law, which should point the way forward with legislative initiatives that simplify the environment for companies in the area of company law.
− european company law is a key element in the completion of the internal market, and given the evolution of the dimension of cross-border trade and the integration of markets, business models and the current situation itself, a clear and transparent legal framework is needed for the natural development of the business climate.
i therefore congratulate the ec on the initiative launched on the future of european company law, which aims to simplify the business environment for companies by reducing unnecessary administrative obstacles and protecting the interests of creditors, entrepreneurs, member states, members and employees.
i am aware of the importance of this european framework for employment, but i believe it is pertinent that this plan will only be possible to achieve through the coordination of a european investment plan, a coherent european industrial strategy and investment in public services based on new revenues, including new financial transaction taxes and eurobonds, giving priority to investments that promote a sustainable economy, quality jobs and social justice in order to combat inequalities.
i support the idea of creating a european investment pact that can help to propel europe out of the crisis by ensuring a transition from the restrictive approach of budgetary austerity to a more balanced approach with concrete proposals at national and european level that prioritise investment in key areas, providing sustainable growth and job creation.
water scarcity is no longer limited to southern european countries and is likely to worsen as a result of climate change, threatening important sectors of the economy such as energy and agriculture.
climate change is expected to have a negative impact on precipitation patterns and hydrological cycles with very significant effects on water quantity and quality.
to make europe a more attractive place to invest and work, it is essential to create the conditions for businesses to enjoy a climate of fair competition.
the development of the internal market must be one of the eu's main priorities for the development of a favourable and motivating climate for businesses and consumers.
in line with what the commission already included in its 2008 communication, it is important to make the most of the strengths of these regions, taking advantage of high value-added sectors such as agri-food, biodiversity, renewable energy, astrophysics, aerospace, oceanography, volcanology or seismology, or the important role of the ors as eu outposts in the world.
more recently, the council identified the sectors where the contribution of the ors could have the greatest added value: research and innovation, renewable energy, biodiversity, agriculture, maritime wealth, health, ict, cultural heritage, territorial cooperation and neighbourhood policy.
in the specific case of the mediterranean, as the rapporteur points out, the fact that several states and regions share the same basin, natural environment and historical linkage along the coast could bring great benefits not only in the synergies to be created between the member states of the european union, but also with neighbouring states.
- support the implementation of a macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean basin in order to provide an action plan for addressing the common and problematic challenges facing the mediterranean countries and regions; the main areas of intervention for a mediterranean macro-region should also include energy networks, scientific cooperation and innovation, cultural, education and training networks, environmental protection, sustainable maritime transport, maritime protection and safety and protection of the marine environment against pollution, overfishing and illegal fishing, through the creation of an integrated network of information and surveillance systems for maritime activities, the strengthening of good governance and effective public administration, in order to foster job creation.
it is therefore clear - especially after the so-called 'arab spring' - that it is in the best interests of the union to maintain good relations with the peoples of the southern mediterranean and to promote trade and tourism development by exploiting existing resources, in particular maritime traffic and sustainable energy.
the promotion of cohesion can and should involve cooperation between countries and regions with different affinities, which provides for interventions in the territory aimed at preserving the ecological balance and promoting fair, balanced and sustainable development.
this approach makes perfect sense to me, since the mediterranean area is a coherent whole, forming a single cultural and environmental basin, sharing several common characteristics and priorities: the same agricultural production, the abundance of renewable energy resources, in particular solar energy, the importance of tourism, the same risks in the face of natural disasters (fires, floods, earthquakes, scarcity of water resources) and the same risks in the face of human activities, in particular marine pollution.
it can also be an excellent alternative to road traffic with enormous energy and environmental benefits.
- i voted in favour of the serracchiani report on the recasting of the union's rail transport legislation because it consolidates two fundamental objectives: (i) to make progress in creating a cross-border european rail market, without which there is no real internal market; (ii) to strengthen the conditions for rail transport's efficiency and enable it to compete with road and air transport (which, moreover, do not internalise their environmental over-cost).
− the creation of a single railway area depends on coherent, transparent and simplified legislation, which fosters a competitive business environment.
- the transport of goods by road without well-defined rules and without strict control of the drivers' rest periods increases the risk of accidents with sometimes very serious consequences, both in terms of personal injury and material and environmental damage.
− intellectual property rights (ipr) are central to innovation, a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
and meet the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
− i voted in favour of this report because i consider intellectual property rights (ipr) to be fundamental to innovation and a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
as i consider intellectual property rights to be fundamental to innovation and a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, i voted in favour.
the protection of water resources, in particular drinking water, should be considered in a global perspective, taking into account all the ecosystem services supported by water.
controlling pollution at source is of key importance to prevent the entry of hazardous substances into the environment and to reduce the pressure placed on wastewater treatment.
climate change adaptation and mitigation policies should systematically take into account the impact on water resources and the eu should take a comprehensive approach to the problem of water scarcity and droughts.
with the adoption of the water framework directive (wfd) in 2000, the european union has a solid framework for sustainable and efficient management of water resources.
sustainable water use is an environmental and health necessity and plays a central role in the climate regulation cycle.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that special attention should be paid to the specific activities and objectives of the horizon 2020 framework programme on better sustainable management of water resources and aquatic environments in the eu and its neighbouring countries.
− sustainable management of water resources is vital to ensure that all ecosystems receive sufficient quantities of good quality water for their proper functioning and to be able to provide essential services in terms of food safety and quality, health and the economy.
the 2000 water framework directive sets the objective of achieving 'good ecological, chemical and quantitative status' of european water bodies by 2015. however, the pace of implementation of the directive in the countries and regions of europe has been slow and uneven.
while the main concern should be the implementation of current legislation in the water sector, there are specific gaps that need to be filled, either by adapting existing legislation to water priorities or by developing new legislation to address the impact of specific activities or sectors, and the importance of cooperation between different economic operators and other stakeholders for the sustainable management of water resources should be taken into account at this level.
for these reasons, this report analyses and identifies the challenges and obstacles to the correct implementation of the 2000 water directive in the member states, in particular the objective of 'good ecological, chemical and quantitative status' of european water bodies by 2015. i support this report which sets out a number of ideas to be included in the 'plan to preserve europe's water resources', to be published later this year.
i would like to highlight a few key ideas: the importance of effective participation of the regions in policy-making, there is no single policy; water should be a cross-cutting issue in all eu policies, with a holistic approach to all water resources; there must be an eu policy on water reuse and recycling; enhanced research and innovation, particularly in regions with water scarcity; and international cooperation for sustainable water development.
− active and passive safety for motorists has improved significantly over the last few decades: seat belts, airbags, energy absorption zones, sensors, lighting, etc.
to make europe a more attractive place to invest and work, it is essential to create the conditions for businesses to enjoy a climate of fair competition.
the development of the internal market must be one of the eu's main priorities for the development of a favourable and motivating climate for businesses and consumers.
the regulatory environment will need to be improved to enable businesses in europe to improve their competitiveness and their capacity for growth and job creation.
it should include recommendations to member states and be one of the foundations for creating a more investment-friendly environment in the eu.
on the other hand, the high quality and diversity of our human capital, the predictability of the business environment and the high potential of the research and innovation sectors play in favour of our market and are factors that should be strengthened and enhanced.
to make europe a more attractive place to invest and work, it is essential to create the conditions for businesses to enjoy an open and fair competition climate.
the internal market is one of the eu's main priorities for developing a favourable and motivating climate for businesses and consumers.
it is essential to promote both ways of attracting investment: (a) making europe an attractive destination for foreign investors and (b) making the business climate attractive for national entrepreneurs.
with the lisbon treaty conferring exclusive competence on foreign direct investment, the eu will be responsible for defining an international investment policy that enhances competitiveness and contributes to achieving the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it is important to make europe a more attractive place to invest and work by creating the conditions for businesses to enjoy an open competition environment, which will generate important productivity gains with a positive impact on growth and employment.
- this report focuses on what it considers to be the need for the development of the internal market, for the development of a favourable and motivating climate for businesses and consumers, capable of attracting both international and domestic investment.
but on the other hand, the high quality and diversity of our human capital, the predictability of the business environment and the high potential of the research and innovation sectors play in favour of our market and are factors that must be strengthened and enhanced.
it should include recommendations to member states and be one of the foundations for creating a more investment-friendly environment in the eu.
it should include recommendations to member states and be one of the foundations for creating a more investment-friendly environment in the eu.
on the other hand, the high quality and diversity of our human capital, the predictability of the business environment and the high potential of the research and innovation sectors play in favour of our market and are factors that should be strengthened and enhanced.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
finally, i would also like to stress the importance of investments in transport, energy and ict infrastructure for increasing europe's long-term competitiveness.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'trade aspects of the eastern partnership' because i considered positive the general and country-specific recommendations on the negotiation of comprehensive and in-depth agreements, the importance of technical assistance, the harmonisation of legislation, environmental standards and the involvement of civil society.
it would be essential to solve the problem of the gas pipeline with moldova, by opening up energy corridors, and to overcome the visa issues with ukraine.
the success of the cftas will, however, depend to a large extent on institutional strengthening and the proper implementation of commitments, which can only be ensured in an open, transparent and corruption-free negotiating environment.
finally, like the rapporteur, i welcome and congratulate him on the excellent work he has done, advocating the promotion of growth and employment, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and youth, and the focus on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as priorities for this 2013 budget.
i must tell you that it is very gratifying to work towards a goal which can move and unite us all and that when we all concentrate on a common objective it is possible to move mountains, even in a very short time, and indeed it was a time-consuming task, but we were all aware of the need to achieve it and to solve at the same time various problems which were arising in several member states and i am pleased to note the existence of this constructive spirit, not only within our working party in the committee on agriculture of the european parliament but also on the part of the commission and the council, and i hope that this good working climate which is being created can be a good stimulus for the difficult and difficult work ahead of us, but i am sure that if we maintain this spirit we will also achieve positive results and when i speak of positive results i am certainly speaking of those results which are the ones we all want to serve as european farmers.
- i voted in favour of and support this action because i believe it is consistent with the overall strategy for developing a sector which remains in difficulty, a sector dominated by high volatility in markets, environmental challenges and a need for environmental safety.
considering that the commission's proposals were balanced, and taking into account the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development which calls for delegated acts in direct payments to farmers and that the current proposal provides for a simplification of regulation (ec) no 73/2009, in particular as regards the legislative environment and the reduction of the administrative burden on member states, i voted in favour of this report.
the proposal also includes a number of provisions designed to simplify the current legislative environment and to reduce the administrative burden on member states.
i support this report because i believe that the set of provisions which lead to the simplification of the current legislative environment and the reduction of the administrative burden for the member states is positive.
− the european agricultural fund for rural development aims to improve the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sectors, the environment, the landscape, the quality of life in rural areas and the promotion of the diversification of the rural economy.
despite its invaluable contribution to creating and maintaining a healthy environment, preserving ecosystems, the truth is that it is a very unprofitable and unattractive activity.
it is now clear not only that part of europe is heavily dependent on russian energy but also that european service companies have a chance of success in russia.
the eu is therefore expected to make a firm commitment to the reforms required immediately by wto accession, as well as to reciprocate and engage in negotiations for a new mutually beneficial agreement, particularly in the fields of energy, trade and investment.
they include agricultural products and seeds, numerous chemical, ferrous and energy products, minerals, cotton derivatives and animal products, among others.
however, acta raised some doubts as to its scope, in particular with regard to infringements in the digital environment and the role of internet service providers in identifying such infringements.
i voted against this agreement (and therefore in favour of the report), but i think it is absolutely necessary to start a broad discussion now with a view to a new agreement involving so-called 'civil society' which should use this text of acta as a basis, obviously revising the part on 'protection of intellectual property rights in the digital environment' as the only way to protect our most innovative industrial sector.
why not split acta in two and start the legal procedures now for the discussion and approval of the chapters that do not include the 'digital environment'?
i believe that the eu should have first revised the ipr directive and adapted eu law to the internet environment before negotiating this agreement.
finally, i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done and, like him, i support the promotion of growth and jobs, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and youth, and the focus on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as priorities for the 2013 budget.
− i voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on agriculture and rural development on the eu strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015. i believe that animal welfare is a fundamental pillar of sustainable development and is essential to protecting animal health as well as human health.
− this report calls for a new european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015 as a high level of animal welfare is an integral part of sustainable development and is important to protect animal and public health, as well as the productivity and competitiveness of the livestock sector in europe.
a 2­018/86) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work (com (86) 0403 final - syn 184); the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of animals in the event of a serious accident or serious injury.
i would like to highlight a number of measures which i consider to be positively positive, such as the pact for growth and jobs, which should serve the strategy to promote jobs and sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, with actions at national and european level, and a package of eur 120 billion has been made available to promote investment and growth in europe.
it sought to adopt and combine a whole range of short, medium and long-term measures to stabilise financial markets, stimulate employment and sustainable growth and strengthen emu.
i would like to highlight a number of measures which i consider to be positively positive, such as the pact for growth and jobs, which should serve the strategy to promote jobs and sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, with actions at national and european level, and a package of eur 120 billion has been made available to promote investment and growth in europe.
as i have always said, i do not believe in economic growth without proper accounts and that is why it is so important that portugal continues its enormous effort of fiscal consolidation so that we can experience times of sustainable growth as soon as possible.
i also welcome the adoption of the growth pact, which sets out a roadmap for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, comprising actions to be developed at national and european level in the context of the europe 2020 strategy.
the vagueness and ambiguity of the concept has served all opportunism, even that of those who say they want to save the environment without interfering with the system that degrades and threatens it, who say they want to combat hunger and other social ills without going to their root causes, a genuinely sustainable development based on a sustainable relationship between man and nature will not be possible without questioning the laws and dogmas of capitalism, however much they want to paint it green.
we must break with a growth which sacrifices natural resources and labour, the creative and transformative energy of the human being, to the growing accumulation of profit, to the private appropriation of the social wealth produced.
we must safeguard natural resources, but also their democratic use, defend local production by reducing the breadth of production and consumption cycles, stop the liberalisation of world trade, which is an incentive to increase energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, despite their serious economic and social consequences, protect natural terrestrial and marine ecosystems, recover degraded ecosystems by enhancing their role in regulating the carbon cycle, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but through a regulatory approach and not through mechanisms that leave these objectives to the taste of market sentiment.
worse than that, the solutions that have come out of it are going to overcome the ecological crisis through financialization of the environment, more carbon trading, free emission bonuses and now also green property assets.
but how is this possible when this transition would require an investment of 2% of world gdp in 10 key sectors and we know that the un environment programme proposes the financial sector as a solution to this?
in response to the ecological crisis caused by the greed of the market, which turns resources into profit for the few and scarcity for the many, more market is invented.
there is no climate, environmental and social solution without attacking the root of the problem, this economic system that condemns millions to poverty and that is ravaging the planet.
the adoption of a framework programme for the next ten years means that the current problems will be postponed for another decade, that global warming, desertification and the destruction of some ecosystems will not be tackled.
i think that this measure complements the efficiency of this institution and at the same time guarantees the rights of its workers, since the temporary judges are appointed for a renewable term of four years.
these temporary judges shall be appointed for a term of four years (renewable) and shall exercise the prerogatives of the permanent judges in dealing with the cases for which they have been appointed, that is to say, they shall have strictly judicial functions but shall not be able to take part in decisions concerning the administration of the court or in the election of the president or presidents of the chambers.
to remedy this situation, it is proposed that temporary judges be appointed from among former judges of the court of justice of the european union for a renewable term of four years.
− i support this report because the development of modern infrastructure is crucial to achieving the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and reducing unemployment.
investment needs in transport, energy and information and communication technology (ict) infrastructure are estimated at eur 1.5 billion for the period 2010-2020. while the private sector should finance most of these investments - the vast majority of which are profitable - the role of the public sector in europe will be crucial to achieving these objectives.
the eu commission has proposed the connecting europe facility (cef) for the next financial framework to accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of transport, energy and ict networks, with particular emphasis on their strategic cross-border aspects.
- i welcome the fact that this text establishes a new financial instrument to support development in the context of the transeuropean transport and energy networks.
- i voted in favour of the report on community financial support for the transeuropean transport and energy networks, because it includes measures to stimulate private investment, in particular in the energy, transport and information sectors, through project bonds.
− the existence of modern and efficient infrastructure is important to achieve the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as well as to reduce unemployment through the completion of the internal market.
investment needs in transport, energy and information and communication technology (ict) infrastructure are estimated at eur 1.5 billion for the period 2010-2020. although much of this investment is private, the truth is that a public component is still needed, here in the form of project bonds.
the report by göran färm deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 1639/2006/ec establishing a framework programme for competitiveness and innovation (2007-2013) and regulation (ec) no 680/2007 laying down general rules for the granting of community financial support in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks.
i voted in favour of this report and hope that the symbolic amount of eur 230 million made available for this pilot phase can be significantly increased in the next budgets in order to stimulate the economy and job creation in such an important area as transport and energy networks, where innovation and digital technologies are key.
in fact, the only concern of this proposal is with the large projects, those involving mainly large german or french capital, which dominate these sectors - transport, energy, telecommunications.
- i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 1639/2006/ec establishing a framework programme for competitiveness and innovation (2007-2013) and regulation (ec) no 680/2007 laying down general rules for the granting of community financial support in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks, by agreeing to it.
the ec has presented the connecting europe facility (cef), a financing instrument for transport, energy and ict infrastructure, as vital for the development of the european economy, with particular attention to cross-border links.
i support this initiative and hope that at the end of the pilot phase in 2013, this instrument will be implemented as another opportunity for states to finance themselves, for the development of energy, transport and ict infrastructure.
we have long been pointing out the limitations of instruments that can create jobs with rights, promote fair development, support environmental protection and productive activity - industry, agriculture and fisheries.
political changes in the arab world are a boost to middle east peace, but the latest rocket attacks on gaza, the demolition of homes, the persecution of the poor bedouin community and the demolition of two schools by israel are clouding relations between the two states, undermining the climate of trust and making a peaceful solution more difficult.
a system that ensures the proper functioning of the internal market, that improves the protection of consumers and their lives, but also protects the environment is essential.
accelerating the transition to a low-carbon economy is an environmental imperative.
the eu must maintain ambition and propose concrete measures by strengthening support for renewable energy and energy efficiency, promoting less polluting means of transport and offering consumers the choice of products with a smaller environmental footprint.
it is well known, for example, that climate change does not affect men and women equally, rich and poor, developed and developing countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
- mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the femm committee, i consider it essential to ensure women's access to specialised training and to promote female employment in sectors related to energy efficiency, and it is also necessary to create measures for vulnerable social groups so that they can increase energy efficiency in their homes and reduce the costs of energy consumption.
these measures should be designed with a gender dimension in mind, as the risk of poverty for women is higher than for men in almost all the countries of the european union and as regards the agreement at first reading, although it is better than the european commission's estimates, i believe that 15 or 17% energy efficiency by 2020 is too little, we have to be more ambitious!
we know that energy efficiency is indeed one of the most powerful anti-crisis measures we can have at the moment in the context of the european union.
we are tired of austerity and sanctions policies without a penny of investment in european economies and energy efficiency could be one of those areas of investment.
we see the waste we have in terms of consumption, we see what is the stranglehold of many european companies, especially because they cannot pay their energy bills and we also see that we have an extreme dependence on fossil fuels and the oligarchies that produce these fossil fuels.
so it's obvious that this investment has to be taken seriously and we can't continue to treat energy efficiency like a lape flower that governments can then use as they please or if they don't want to use they don't use.
the european union has a key role to play here and if we want growth and jobs, energy efficiency is a way to do that.
it is clear that energy efficiency can and should contribute to achieving the objectives of better environmental sustainability and economic independence.
energy must be regarded as a basic and basic commodity and many consumption behaviours can only be analysed from this point of view, which means that many people only consume the essentials and this does not depend on a lack of consumer information.
in this sense, rather than subsidising industries and companies with lower energy costs with state aid, it is essential to regulate the energy prices charged by companies providing these services.
− i welcome this report, considering that investment in innovative energy technologies, capable of providing jobs, wealth, sustainability and independence from fossil fuel imports, is an important strategy in the recovery of the european economy.
although the right has stood firm in its defence of reduced investment, my group has been able to carry out work whose outcome is reflected in this report: a strong directive to help reduce 20% of energy consumption by 2020, as outlined by the european commission in its 2020 strategy towards green, smart and sustainable growth, to address energy scarcity, to create jobs and to support economic growth in the european union.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that ambitious policies are needed to combat climate change and resource scarcity.
energy efficiency has proven to be the cheapest and fastest way of reducing co2 emissions.
i also believe that it is essential to take measures to reduce the eu's external energy debt and to increase the geopolitical independence and energy security of the european union, as well as to keep energy costs under control and to achieve sustainable growth in the european union.
− this directive is an opportunity for europe to deliver on the commitments made by heads of state on energy and climate in march 2007 and february 2011. the aim is to achieve a 20% increase in eu energy efficiency, which will lead to a reduction of 368 million tonnes of oil equivalent (toe) by 2020 compared to the current trend.
i believe that the european union cannot fail to achieve the energy efficiency objective; if it does not, it will also fail in relation to climate change, energy security, environmentally friendly growth and social protection.
the renewal, every year, of 3% of the total surface area of 'heated and/or cooled buildings' owned by the state or occupied by the central government, as well as the installation of smart meters that help consumers to improve their energy efficiency behaviour are some examples of what this directive aims to introduce towards greater energy efficiency.
i would stress that this directive encourages member states and regions to use the structural funds and the cohesion funds to invest in energy efficiency measures.
- we believe that it is imperative to take significant steps to increase energy efficiency and, in general, to rationalise energy consumption.
continuing the principles that have guided energy policies in the eu, such as the liberalisation of energy markets, will not achieve this.
in the so-called market economy the aim is to produce and sell, increasing supply, inducing demand, which underlies unsustainable energy consumption.
this will partly explain why efficiency is the poor relation of european energy policy.
the report highlights several positive aspects, including the fact that energy efficiency is an essential element in achieving the sustainability of the use of energy resources, the issue of smart meters, the energy efficiency of buildings and concern for smes.
but what is missing is the essential thing: the break with neoliberal policy to allow energy efficiency that does not come under the influence of the crisis and the increasing energy poverty in europe.
− it is widely accepted that policies are needed to combat climate change and resource scarcity.
in agreeing with the objective of keeping energy costs under control and achieving sustainable growth in the european union, i voted in favour of this report.
in fact, experts consider energy efficiency to be one of the most efficient and least costly ways of reducing co2 emissions.
in this respect, i consider this policy to be important, as do the adoption of measures leading to increased energy independence for the union and making it possible to reduce the union's external debt in the field of energy.
− the european commission has presented the 'energy 2020' initiative, putting energy at the heart of the union's energy strategy for 2020. the communication also stresses the need for a new energy efficiency strategy that would enable all member states to decouple energy consumption from economic growth.
the european union has been leading the global negotiations on how to achieve greater energy efficiency, as all actions and measures taken will have an impact on climate change, energy security, environmentally friendly growth and social protection.
i agree with this report because i believe that the eu must take a common approach to strengthening energy saving and energy efficiency by focusing on new innovative products and services, economies of scale between companies and reducing the bureaucratic burdens that exist in all member states.
- we agree with the general objective of increasing energy efficiency.
it is not surprising that, based on the continuity of the principles that have guided energy policies in the eu - such as energy market liberalisation and private and subsidised production from renewable sources - this objective will be difficult to achieve, as the so-called market rules have little effect on energy efficiency.
the report points to several positive aspects - the issue of smart meters, energy efficiency in buildings and concern for smes.
however, if the aim is to help consumers in a time of crisis, then regulation of energy prices by energy service companies, which make huge profits, would be necessary.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is essential that there is a climate of mutual trust, which is why it is important to change the governance of schengen in order to ensure the correct application of the schengen acquis and to increase confidence in the union's ability to deal jointly and in a spirit of solidarity with problems related to border controls, which will make a decisive contribution to facilitating the participation of member states in solidarity initiatives on asylum.
i am voting in favour of the european standardisation process because i believe it will benefit european competitiveness, defend consumer rights, respond to climate change and ensure a growing openness to new markets.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the adoption of stricter standards for sulphur would allow considerable health and environmental benefits to be obtained in a cost-effective manner.
these changes would bring significant health and environmental benefits and would also create a level playing field in terms of the impact of retirement costs.
- it is estimated that air pollution from ships is responsible for some 50 000 premature deaths in europe each year.
reducing emissions from ships will make it easier to meet air quality standards in several member states.
the adoption of higher sulphur standards will allow considerable health and environmental benefits to be obtained in a cost-effective way from the application of the 0,1% standard at a more general level than only in the current sox emission control areas.
- i voted in favour of the report on the sulphur content of marine fuels because i believe that the setting of limits for sulphur emissions in a balanced and progressive manner and the consequent improvement in air quality will bring clear benefits for public health and the environment.
monitoring these values is important as it is currently estimated that air pollution from ships is responsible for some 50 000 premature deaths in europe.
reducing emissions from ships will make it easier to meet air quality standards in several member states.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
more funding, including from the community budget, is needed for investment in technology that is beneficial to the environment and to people's health.
without prejudice to the objectives of this proposal, we in the committee on the environment supported a proposal which sought to safeguard the specific features of certain regions, such as the autonomous region of madeira, by ensuring the necessary adaptations to the rapporteur's proposal.
the european commission is also urged to define a minimum value for the fees paid by companies within the european union, taking into account factors such as tax competitiveness between certain countries and in a way that does not prejudice the sustainable consolidation of member states' national budgets.
my group has proposed introducing important priorities to get us out of the crisis, towards smart, inclusive, sustainable and green growth.
in this way, our emphasis is placed on the social economic market, ensuring sustainable growth so as to provide the next generation of europeans with jobs, as well as preparing the union to integrate all its financial and economic policies, and on the multiannual financial plan, as essential elements to revitalise the future of the european union.
− i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which is shared by the main political forces in parliament and sets out the guidelines for the commission's programme for 2013. i share the wish that the future common agricultural policy should be more in line with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy in order to encourage innovation in agricultural practices and to ensure the sustainability, equity and competitiveness of european agriculture at local and regional level.
i also share the desire for a new and ambitious common fisheries policy, designed to ensure sustainable and healthy stocks in the long term.
portugal was considered the third country in the european union with the highest incorporation of renewable energies in 2009. as in other sectors, gender equality in the labour market and the full participation of women in policy-making, decision-making and the implementation of the green economy need to be ensured.
a new social and ecological indicator of growth is needed, which includes non-economic aspects of well-being and focuses on issues related to sustainable development, such as gender equality, poverty reduction and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
research funding is an indispensable lever for the development of society, which should be concentrated on projects for the development of innovative and sustainable transport solutions.
- climate change and the depletion of biodiversity are a threat to which we must find urgent responses.
the preservation of our ecosystem is without doubt the cornerstone of a green economy, which should imply ecological and social sustainability.
they are the most deprived people, estimated to be 70% women, the most severely affected by the effects of climate change and ecosystem destruction.
we urgently need to move towards a green economy in which environmental requirements are inextricably linked to social sustainability, including the strengthening of social justice, with an equitable distribution of resources between individuals, men and women, and between generations.
i call on the member states to adopt fiscal measures that will help to promote the implementation of a green economy by quantifying the environmental impact on the one hand and investing funds in the promotion of eco-innovation and sustainable infrastructure on the other, which should be seen as a means of stimulating economic development and job creation.
− the urgent need for an international agreement on the common definition of a green economy based on the pillars of social and ecological sustainability is agreed, highlighting the significant role of civil society, where women have often taken the lead in defining the goals and objectives of the green economy.
i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i believe that the commission and, more generally, the european institutions as a whole can play an important role in this respect by designing their development policy in a coherent and balanced way, thus enabling the desired objectives of social and ecological sustainability to be achieved.
we believe that sustainable development, based on a sustainable relationship between man and nature, is not possible without breaking, that is, without challenging the capitalist system.
with a special focus on gender inequality, the environment and sustainable development and the green economy, it looks at ways to facilitate women's access to the green economy market.
we believe that sustainable development, based on a sustainable relationship between man and nature, and here we are advocating it, is not possible without breaking down, that is, without challenging the capitalist system which exploits nature for profit.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in particular, there is a need to strengthen the teaching of other languages in schools, to invest in education even in an unstable economic climate, to reinforce the importance of adult education and informal learning, to increase investment in pre-school education and the possibility of granting scholarships for pre-university education is also suggested.
we must not forget that young people, who are being hit hard by the effects of the crisis, have a key role to play in achieving the key 2020 targets for employment, research and innovation, climate and energy, education and the fight against poverty.
i believe that the union should aim to create an environment which encourages the development of legal provision accessible to all, innovation and creativity.
the council’s position on the common market organisation enlarges the role and responsibility of producer organisations towards promoting more sustainable fishing activities, taking on tasks related to fisheries management and on handling unwanted catches that fishermen will have to land after the implementation of the discard ban.
on the reform in general, the council’s position can be summarised as follows: management of fish stocks needs to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015, where possible, and by 2020 at the latest.
new multiannual plans should better reflect the interdependence of fish stocks and fisheries and apply the maximum sustainable yield policy to all stocks which are significant in the area of the multiannual plan.
with the new council conclusions on the external dimension, the council has set a more detailed framework for bilateral fisheries agreements, based on sustainability, and has given policy directions for the union’s work in regional and multilateral fisheries organisations.
this is a far-reaching piece of legislation which will enable the european union to adopt effective measures against third countries allowing non-sustainable fishing.
thanks to this legislation we now have an additional instrument to use against such non-sustainable management practices.
it means more sustainable fishing inside and outside the eu.
i would like to welcome the call from this house to restore and maintain stocks above the maximum sustainable yield.
we would like to have the maximum sustainable yield introduced in our final text.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- mr president, commissioner, the future common fisheries policy must give priority to its environmental, economic and social sectors, in a synergistic and non-hierarchical way, for the sake of sustainable development and in line with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the eu 2020 strategy.
we all know that reform must be deep and that resource sustainability is our lowest common denominator.
it is up to all of us to work towards ensuring that fisheries and their fish stocks are maintained by promoting the sustainability of resources.
the need and urgency to achieve sustainable rebalances in our fisheries resources, but also in the revitalization of our coastal fishing communities and the promotion of their socioeconomic level, in the modernisation of the sector and in the supply of quality food, require courage and bold action as never before.
such a set of rules should be able to increase confidence in the criminal and justice systems of all the member states of the european union and at the same time ensure greater judicial cooperation in a climate of mutual understanding and promotion of fundamental european values.
it thus establishes minimum standards applicable to cases where crimes have been committed in the eu and to criminal proceedings pending in the eu, thus strengthening trust in the criminal justice systems of all member states, which should contribute to more effective judicial cooperation in a climate of mutual trust and should also promote a culture of fundamental rights in the eu.
the report thus proposes that the arm should seek to remove technical barriers to trade while safeguarding the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties.
it aims to remove technical barriers to trade while safeguarding health, safety and environmental objectives.
given that australia is governed by principles and standards similar to those of the european union in terms of health, safety and the environment and that trade between the two parties should be encouraged and free from unnecessary restrictions, the existence of a mutual recognition agreement on a number of issues is welcomed.
in addition, the restriction on rules of origin for industrial products, which was considered unnecessary, will be removed, and the text will be updated with regard to institutional and procedural changes, the withdrawal of recognition and suspension of conformity assessment bodies, etc., without neglecting matters relating to health, safety and the environment.
it is essential to remove technical barriers to trade while safeguarding the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties.
its aim is to remove technical barriers to trade while safeguarding health, safety and environmental objectives.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider that it simplifies the operation of the mutual recognition agreement with new zealand, removes technical barriers to trade while safeguarding the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties , allows for increased flexibility in the structure of the sectoral annexes to the mutual recognition agreement, eliminates unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, reduces the administrative burden related to the management of the agreement and facilitates and clarifies the operation of the arm.
these arms are of substantial importance for the framework and stability of eu-new zealand trade relations as they seek to remove technical barriers to trade while safeguarding the public health, safety and environmental protection objectives of both parties.
in addition, the restriction on rules of origin for industrial products, which was considered unnecessary, will be removed, and the text will be updated with regard to institutional and procedural changes, the withdrawal of recognition and suspension of conformity assessment bodies, etc., without neglecting matters relating to health, safety and the environment.
- i support this report, firstly for reasons of fairness, because i do not consider it fair that while there are regions like mine that practice sustainable fishing, at the same time other member states do not meet the same requirements and may even put the stocks of different european marine regions at risk.
as a lucrative destination market for fishery products, the eu has a special responsibility to safeguard the sustainability of the sector and to respect the shared management of straddling and highly migratory fish stocks.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu has a special responsibility to safeguard the sustainability of the fisheries sector and to respect the shared management of highly migratory and straddling fish stocks.
− the organisation and functioning of fisheries and aquaculture product markets have implications for the sustainability of fisheries resources and marine ecosystems, as well as for public health and food security.
the report by pat the cope gallagher, an expert on responsibility, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of certain measures to states which engage in (or permit) fishing which is not environmentally sustainable and which jeopardises the maintenance of fish stocks.
the absence of a sustainable fisheries policy, particularly as regards the capture of carp, is at issue.
i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposals because i agree that fishing, both within and outside the european union, must be sustainable.
− the united nations convention on the law of the sea and the united nations fish stocks agreement require coastal states and states whose fleets fish in adjacent high seas fish stocks to cooperate in managing, in a responsible manner, highly migratory and transboundary fish stocks and stocks in adjacent eezs in order to ensure their long-term sustainability, either through direct mutual consultation or through the regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos).
− responsible management and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources should be a priority for the eu and all member states.
the european union has a special responsibility to safeguard the sustainability of the sector and to observe the shared management of highly migratory and transboundary fish stocks and should therefore be provided with effective means to act.
as a personal note on this reform, and although i am not a member of the committee on fisheries, i would just like to highlight: the absolute importance of pursuing the objective of 'balancing the three dimensions of the cfp' - social, environmental and economic; the maintenance of support for fleet renewal and the search for a more regionalised model for the management of the cfp.
- for the european union, and especially for a country like portugal, with a maritime and fishing vocation, with a strong fishing and canning industry, it is essential to maintain fishing as a viable and sustainable economic activity.
− the european citizen, as a result of his environmental awareness, is a demanding consumer who is aware of his rights.
the citizen must know the origin of the product, the date of catch, thawing, supply chains and that its catch respects sustainable fishing practices; secondly, fishermen's organisations should be supported and sustainable fishing practices rewarded; in addition, it is necessary to promote sustainable management of fisheries resources by avoiding the capture of juvenile species and their subsequent return to the marine environment.
- in a period of deepening crisis of capitalism, here is another demonstration of how militarism, meddling and disregard for national sovereignty are the option for conquering markets and dominating natural and energy resources that are fundamental to the great powers of the eu.
the current management system for stocks has not resulted in healthier stocks, thus hindering the overall objective of finding an appropriate balance between ecological and economic aspects.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy' for advocating the need for an effective eu-wide non-refoulement policy, strengthening the powers of the community fisheries control agency (cfp) to ensure a fair system of rules and penalties.
− the report that the ec is required to submit to the european parliament and the council on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and member states' measures to adjust fishing capacity before the end of 2012 indicates that the efforts of member states to improve conservation and to restore stocks have not been sufficient.
− the report by carl haglund focuses on the report that the commission is required to submit before the end of 2012 to the european parliament (ep) and the council under regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy (cfp) and on the measures implemented by the member states with regard to adjustment of fishing capacity.
although the data available are insufficient for the preparation of long-term management plans, further studies are essential , they nevertheless allow us to conclude that in many cases there is overfishing, with discards and by-catches being factors detrimental to the sustainability of the sector.
in addition, the european union should not enter into cooperation agreements with countries that do not respect sustainable fishing practices.
i hope that the management plans will be implemented as soon as possible so that we can have a sustainable fisheries regime.
the proposal is to impose sanctions, such as the freezing of funds from the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), on member states which do not meet the objectives of reducing the level of sustainable capacity for each fishery.
− the report on reporting obligations for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources has identified important issues on issues such as the adjustment of the fishing capacity of the european fleet, as well as on the conservation and sustainability of fisheries resources.
the report focused on very relevant issues such as the need to strike a balance between ecological and economic aspects, the need to adopt an ecosystem approach to find appropriate solutions for the management of mixed fisheries, the need to promote a gradual reduction in unwanted by-catches and discards, and the need to improve the quality and reliability of the data needed to support sound scientific advice.
because of the importance of these issues, and because i consider the document to be fairly balanced, i voted in favour of this report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
− this document refers to the report to be submitted by the european commission to the european parliament and the council on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and member states' measures to adjust fishing capacity before the end of 2012. in addition, it was also required to submit a report on the fishing restrictions in the 12 nautical mile zone by 31 december 2011. the commission considers that the efforts made by member states to improve conservation and restore stocks have been insufficient and that little progress has been made in reducing fleet capacity.
− i voted in favour of this report because i consider that an ambitious and rigorous reform of the cfp (wild fisheries and aquaculture) is necessary if the eu is to ensure long-term environmental sustainability, which is a prerequisite for ensuring the economic and social viability of the eu fisheries sector.
- i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the common fisheries policy because it includes measures to ensure the public supply of fish but also the development of coastal communities, helping to promote employment and the improvement of the living conditions of fishermen, while seeking to establish resources on a sustainable basis for their own conservation.
i believe that any fisheries policy must take account of a multiplicity of social, environmental and economic dimensions which require an integrated and balanced approach.
the cfp, when revised, should not be removed from its socioeconomic and environmental context and should help to improve the living standards of communities dependent on fishing and to promote better working conditions for fishermen.
however, this reform cannot be carried out without involving the sector or against it, since we must promote the sustainability of resources but also guarantee jobs and the survival of small fishing communities, which are often responsible for maintaining the biodiversity of the planet.
the existence of medium and long-term management plans, the prohibition of juvenile catches and the consequent return of fish to the aquatic environment, the prohibition of flag changes to countries that allow non-sustainable fishing, international cooperation, especially in the field of surveillance, the involvement of fishermen's organisations and the existence of scientific studies on stocks, promote a sustainable fisheries regime and should be taken into account in the next cfp.
i voted in favour of this report because we need a cfp that preserves fisheries resources but also promotes social sustainability, especially at a time of crisis when job creation is not abundant.
− this general communication on the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) was structured around a number of themes relating to the objectives of the reform, namely environmental sustainability (measures for the conservation of marine biological resources, monitoring and collection of quality data), socioeconomic sustainability (future of jobs in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors) and regionalisation.
i voted in favour of two amendments to this report which i consider to be important, namely the possibility of renewing the fleet (under certain specific conditions and corresponding to an adaptation of vessels to the available resources, ensuring the sustainability of their exploitation) and the possibility of co-financing up to 75% in support of the collection and processing of scientific data (which could contribute significantly to a more robust and efficient fisheries management).
- i believe that the future common fisheries policy must give priority to its environmental, economic, social and cultural pillars, in a non-hierarchical and synergistic way, in the interests of sustainable development.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate mr kariņš on the negotiating work which has resulted in a compromise text which, although less ambitious than parliament's initial position, represents a step forward in creating legislation in the area of external energy policy.
i agree with the key points in the compromise text that strengthen cooperation between member states on intergovernmental agreements in the energy sector.
i believe that the agreement reached contributes to greater transparency in intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy and is a step forward in strengthening the external dimension of the internal energy market in europe.
farmers will certainly continue to focus on quality, but they expect us to create the conditions necessary for them to get a fair return on their investment, bearing in mind that imposing such high production standards in terms of food safety, animal welfare and environmental sustainability has the effect of raising the final price of the product.
european agriculture offers a wide variety of food, with production methods that respect the environment and rural communities.
the regional diversity of food, traditional production methods, the emphasis on safety and good environmental conditions mean that the quality of european food is one of the highest in the world, which we must reciprocally demand from third-country products entering the eu.
- i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0268/2012) to renew the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the federative republic of brazil.
the atlantic ocean can be a huge potential for scientific and technological cooperation in the fields of the environment and natural resources.
- i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0267/2012) to renew the agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria on scientific and technological cooperation.
in addition, with the southern european member states sharing the mediterranean sea with the northern african countries, there is a huge potential for scientific and technological cooperation in the fields of the environment and natural resources, maritime transport, security, information technology, cultural projects, etc.
the atlantic area is a space with immense potential and where the most diverse activities are developed: tourism, fishing, renewable energies, transport, etc.
as a maritime space, it is obviously a fragile environment that needs to be protected; as peripheral space, it requires special attention; and as the western gateway to europe, it has a strategic position.
these two pillars should facilitate synergies between sectoral policies involved in economic, social, environmental and territorial development.
i am voting in favour of this report because i find it extremely positive that there is a strong focus on economic activities related to the sea, renewable energy and tourism.
− i approve this report, considering that in order to comply with european energy market legislation, member states should communicate and negotiate with the commission all energy agreements with third countries, in order to check potential incompatibility with european legislation.
this system would be innovative and effective, as it would allow the european union to harmonize its energy market once and for all, not only internally but also externally, with a single voice.
intergovernmental agreements (igas) concluded between member states and third countries, in particular for the development of gas transport infrastructure requiring major investments, can contribute to the proper functioning of the energy market.
in order to avoid a breach of the internal market rules in the field of energy, there is a need for enhanced cooperation between member states as regards gis in the energy sector.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to facilitate compliance with the eu internal market rules and to encourage member states to take the necessary measures to eliminate incompatibilities that may arise in energy gpas concluded with third countries in order to safeguard the proper functioning and security of the internal energy market in the eu.
− stability and security of energy supply are fundamental to the competitiveness, growth and sustainability of european businesses and to the reduction of the bill paid by citizens.
the best way to ensure the reliability of energy supply is through the proper functioning of the internal energy market but also through reduced external dependence, as the president of the commission rightly said in his state of the union address.
so, in addition to reducing energy dependence, it is also important to diversify sources of supply.
− the countries of the european union (eu) are among the most dependent on the outside world for their energy needs.
in fact, we import about 60% of the gas and 80% of the oil we consume, and there is a growing trend due to the increase in the level of comfort of citizens - despite the bet being made on renewable energy.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we cannot waste this golden opportunity to move forward into the future, or else we will be accused of not knowing how to manage eu resources.
- i voted in favour of this report because i fully agree with the idea that the stability and security of energy supply is important to promote a predictable economic environment for citizens and for the industrial sector in the european union.
- energy is becoming increasingly important in the daily expenditure of citizens and businesses, affecting not only the quality of life of the population but also european competitiveness.
the eu imports more than 60% of its gas and more than 80% of its oil and mechanisms must be in place to ensure the stability and security of energy supply.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the internal energy market must function properly, that the security of energy supply must be guaranteed and that a new mechanism for the exchange of information must be established.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'quality systems for agricultural products', which contains proposals to improve european union legislation on quality and to simplify certification systems in order to promote regional diversity of food products, traditional production methods, food safety and environmental protection.
- the common agricultural policy will necessarily have to rely on the high quality of its agricultural products, an undeniable added value for european competitiveness in a global market environment.
quality policy cannot be separated from the rest of the common agricultural policy, nor can it ignore new challenges such as the fight against climate change, the conservation of biodiversity, energy supply and the development of bioenergy, animal welfare and water management in agriculture.
− european agriculture offers a wide variety of food, with production methods that respect the environment and rural communities.
the regional diversity of food, traditional production methods and concern for safety and good environmental conditions make european food quality one of the highest in the world.
privatizations, which have placed in the hands of large economic groups, energy, banking, telecommunications or transport companies, suppliers of essential goods and services at monopoly prices, are one of the causes of the economic strangulation of smes.
technical because we need to protect european producers from unfair competition and make the safeguard clauses work; philosophical because, in addition to trade policy, we must include obligations relating to human rights, working conditions, the environment, etc.
technical, because we need to protect european producers from unfair competition and make the safeguard clauses work; philosophical, because in addition to trade policy we must include obligations relating to human rights, working conditions, the environment, etc.
for these reasons, numerous organizations have denounced the social, labour and environmental dumping resulting from this agreement, and more generally from free trade and the subjection of agriculture to the rules of the world trade organization.
if action by the eu and the international community fails in syria, stability in the middle east will be compromised and security in europe, in all its aspects, from terrorism to arms proliferation, illegal immigration and energy security, will be seriously threatened.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
finally, i support the existing proposals on capital requirements for the banking sector, deposit guarantee and bank resolution which aim to ensure greater sustainability of banking in the medium and long term.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is true that parliament is trying to reverse some of the most serious cuts made by governments, particularly in the 7th framework programme, erasmus mundus, smart energy and even beyond the commission's proposal.
more money to support productive activity, especially in the countries facing the most difficulties, the creation of jobs with rights, the fight against poverty and exclusion, research and development, environmental protection, less resources for external interventionism, the repression of emigration, militarism and institutional propaganda.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
there are deep-rooted cultural differences such as the one between the european precautionary approach to food and environmental safety and the american risk-based approach.
the arguments which have been advanced over the years in favour of a single european sky are subsidiary to this objective and are without foundation, whether in terms of safety, employment or environmental issues.
- mr president, i have been asked to work with my colleagues on the proposals on the environment and public health.
we ask that in the multiannual financial framework, public health and the environment are not forgotten in a crisis context, because unfortunately that is what seems to be happening.
we are asking for a 25% increase in the climate policy budget, which is so important.
we are asking for a step forward from the european commission's proposal on nature conservation and biodiversity conservation in the life programme.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
madam president, we do not understand how the council can say that the superiority is still strong, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth if it then goes on to say that the presidency recognises that it is inevitable that the overall level of expenditure will have to be corrected downwards and that the presidency believes that all headings have to be subjected to a reduction effort.
i am in favour of the rapid implementation of the new growth and employment package worth eur 120 billion, the capital increase of the european investment bank by eur 10 billion, the adoption of the transeuropean networks in the field of energy and transport, the deepening of the internal market or the strengthening of the amounts for research and innovation or industrial competitiveness.
therefore, the priorities for the 2013 budget should be to support sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment, in particular for smes and young people.
i therefore support the ep's strategy of providing sufficient funds for payment expenditure, particularly in the area of sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment, smes and youth.
− the eu's general budget for 2013 should have as priorities, as detailed in its abovementioned resolution of 4 july 2012 on the mandate for the trilogue, support for sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment, especially for smes and young people.
the money you waste could be used instead to fight smoking and the evils of tobacco.
− this interim report aims to facilitate and accelerate the adoption of the mff for the period 2014-2020. european citizens place great hope in the achievement of the priorities set out in the europe 2020 strategy: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
cohesion policy is the only policy that can simultaneously contribute to the 5 eu 2020 objectives in the areas of education, research and innovation, climate change, employment and the fight against poverty.
− i am aware that the negotiations on the mff for the period 2014-2020 are taking place in a very adverse social, economic and financial context, in which member states are making considerable efforts to adjust their national budgets with a view to the sustainability of public finances and the stability of the banking sector and the single currency.
we therefore need to present a mff 2014-2020 that upholds the objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, namely promoting employment, improving conditions and increasing public spending in the fields of innovation and research and development, meeting our climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through poverty reduction.
in these terms, and taking into account the report of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on regional development, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial provisions applicable to the annual budget of the european union.
- having regard to the report of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on regional development, and having no objections, i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial provisions applicable to the annual budget of the union.
taking into account the clarifications provided by the authority and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am voting in favour of this report to give discharge to the easa budget for the year 2010.
in writing.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
i therefore vote in favour of this report, taking into account the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, whose recommendations i wholeheartedly support, and in favour of the discharge for the 2010 budget of the eea.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
this update aims to liberalize the marketing of these forestry materials, particularly in the case of plantations of fast-growing trees for energy/biomass production - the aspect that gives rise to our greatest reservations.
- in this report, parliament endorses the european commission's proposal to amend the council decision on the inclusion of forest reproductive material in the category 'qualified material', with the aim of liberalizing the marketing of such forest material, particularly in the case of plantations of fast-growing trees for energy/biomass production.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the full and timely deployment of the ees will bring significant benefits to the member states, as all indications are that it should have positive effects on the economy, employment and the environment.
in the face of the continuing increase in air traffic, it is essential to complete the single european sky legislation as soon as possible in order to avoid congestion of european airspace and to ensure a high quality of air services for european citizens, while also enabling significant savings in economic, environmental and safety terms, creating a more sustainable aviation sector and a more effective air traffic management system at european level.
timely implementation should also allow the eu to maintain its competitiveness, foster new momentum in this area, foster growth and jobs, especially in the aeronautics and aviation sectors, and contribute significantly to the reduction of co2 emissions.
the european technological and economic development is at stake (job creation, reduction of co2 emissions, greater security, increased tourism, more competitive industry, etc.).
the single european sky will contribute to the creation of a more sustainable aviation sector and a more effective air traffic management system at european level.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
− i voted against this report because i think that the director of the european environment agency should be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing.
− i voted against the report on 'receipt 2010: european environment agency' because i believe that, contrary to the rapporteur's position, the agency has taken important steps to respond effectively to potential conflicts of interest and thus continue to fulfil its mission of providing coherent and independent information on the environment in the eu in a transparent manner.
− the report under review, by monica luisa macovei, deals with the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2010, following the decision of the european parliament of 10 may 2012 to postpone the decision in view of the issues raised by the court of auditors.
its aim is to help the eu and national governments make informed decisions on the environment.
− in may 2012, parliament postponed the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2010 and refused to give discharge.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
that is why i voted in favour of the report by the european environment agency.
- without prejudice to the reasons for refusing the director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010, i voted in favour of this report.
- this report, at second reading, raises issues of conflict of interest between the executive director of the european environment agency and the management of the agency itself.
− in may 2012, parliament postponed the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2010 and refused to give discharge.
− the globalisation of markets on the one hand, and the expiry of patents and the growing market share of generic medicines on the other, have brought about major changes in the pharmaceutical industry, forcing it to make adjustments in an already difficult environment in order to remain competitive.
it also notes that investment and biotechnology research are becoming increasingly important worldwide and that the situation of r & d in the eu is a cause for concern in the face of the austerity climate in europe.
ironically, one of europe's largest renewable energy groups is laying off hundreds of workers when the eu says this is a priority area under its eu 2020 strategy.
we must look very closely at all these problems and carefully at every euro that is spent, because the scarcity of resources requires us all to pay greater attention to avoid waste and to maximise investment.
finally, the need for a commitment by the commission and the member states to the need for coherence, efficiency and sustainability of this agenda for change.
this report, which i support, advocates strengthening and increasing the competitiveness of industry and smes, which requires an environment that encourages new ideas and enterprises.
i therefore support this initiative which proposes to invest in programmes aimed at the entrepreneurial potential of citizens, increasing the competitiveness of smes and micro-enterprises, creating a favourable environment for businesses to flourish and consequently increasing employment.
smes are the backbone of our economy and the drivers of sustainable economic growth.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider it of the utmost importance to encourage negotiations between the eu, the us and other partners with a view to developing joint action to deal with the environmental crisis and climate change.
i support the moreira report because i believe that there is enormous potential for the two economies to deepen trade relations: the two countries share common values, similar legal systems and very similar labour, energy and market standards, from which fruitful agreements and synergies can emerge.
while the interests and specificities of both parties should be safeguarded (such as european guidelines and policies in the fields of environment, animal health and welfare, food safety, cultural diversity, social rights, etc.
we are faced with the usual parade of arguments about the wonders of free trade, which they insist on and insist on, as reality keeps on contradicting the miraculous promises and making more visible the real consequences of this path: unemployment, closure of companies (especially smes), monopolistic concentration, pressure on the workforce to devalue it, greater pressure on the environment and natural resources.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider it of the utmost importance to encourage action between the eu, the us and other partners, joint action to tackle the environmental crisis and climate change.
− this report attempts to lay the foundations for deepening trade relations between the us and the eu, insisting on the failed theses of free trade which have led to unemployment, closure of businesses (especially smes), monopolistic concentration, pressure on the labour force to devalue itself, increased pressure on the environment and natural resources.
in certain areas of citizens' daily lives, things as simple as reimbursing medical expenses after a temporary stay in another eu country, opening a bank account for an erasmus student, changing energy supplier, transferring retirement pensions, recognising qualifications and registering a vehicle in another member state are still very complex, difficult or costly.
a common policy for producing and distributing energy at affordable prices to consumers, with a high level of energy efficiency through the european energy market, served by cross-border infrastructure with the possibility of community leverage of the investment representing european added value, is essential.
the common market will also be played out in the energy sector, madam president.
the digital single market, the mobility of citizens, the reform of the eures portal, the european energy market are all eloquent examples of the fact that we still have an important way to go in the future and that this way is very important and vital to respond to the crisis we are living in.
− council decision 2003/17/ec establishes a list of countries to be recognised for the application of the principle of equivalence for the import of fodder plant seed, cereal seed, beet seed and oil and fibre plant seed originating in third countries, lays down the requirements to be fulfilled and provides in particular for the limitation of the period of recognition of equivalence to five years, renewable if all the requirements are fulfilled.
the issue of conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources is a matter of the utmost importance and should be treated with the priority it deserves, and i stress its importance for the viability of the islands' fishing communities.
- i voted in favour of the report on 'conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources', taking into account the need to extend the period of application of the current 12-mile zone access regime, which has been managed by the member states, and thus avoid a legal vacuum, until a wider reform of the cfp is completed.
- the fisheries sector is vital to the european union (eu), not only for food but also for the environment.
sustainable management of fisheries resources is therefore a concern of the eu, especially for endangered species.
- i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
i agree with the reasons given and the urgency of this extension, and therefore i voted in favour of this report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
− i welcome this report, recalling that the european union and the republic of moldova aim to protect geographical indications (gi) in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and enhance sustainable rural development.
- i voted in favour of the report on the protection of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs, as it aims at the mutual protection of geographical indications of the european union and the republic of moldova and thus contributes to the strengthening of bilateral trade, the promotion of food quality and sustainable rural development.
− in order to maintain and even strengthen trade relations between the european union and moldova, with the aim of promoting product quality in the food chain and enhancing sustainable rural development, it is important that the geographical indications (gi) of the respective regions are mutually protected.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the eu and the republic of moldova also want to protect geographical indications in order to 'improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and enhance sustainable rural development'.
− this eu-moldova agreement aims to protect geographical indications on a reciprocal basis 'in order to promote quality in the food chain, enhance rural and sustainable development and improve the conditions of bilateral trade'.
− i voted in favour of this legislative resolution which gives the green light to the agreement whereby the european union and the republic of moldova aim to protect mutually geographical indications (gi) in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and increase sustainable rural development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this difference results from shortcomings such as lack of information, gaps in applications and legislative vacuum the commission has also been active in the area of the protection of the environment.
it also calls for the completion of the internal energy market and a competitive digital single market, the liberalisation of public procurement and the railway sector, the implementation of the cross-border healthcare directive and the coordination of education systems with labour market needs.
− the single market is a key element in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and in achieving the objectives of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
it also calls for the completion of the internal energy market and a competitive digital single market, the liberalisation of public procurement and the railway sector, the implementation of the cross-border healthcare directive and the coordination of education systems with labour market needs.
the policies of liberalization, privatization and deregulation of the economy, have meant for the economically most vulnerable countries the destruction of their productive capacity, the decrease in their exports, the increase in imports in sectors such as energy and food, which have left them in situations of extreme external dependence, as is the case in portugal.
we all know that there are countries which do not respect the most basic environmental, social and human rules, and then put their products on the market at prices which are impossible for eu producers to fight.
there should be a linkage review clause within one year of the launch of the negotiations to assess the climate of eu-japan relations and to assess whether it has brought clear results.
synergies between eu policies are thus essential, and the cfp is an opportunity for the eu to establish equal and sustainable partnerships with developing countries that go beyond development cooperation.
finally, i fully agree with the report's approach to include specific recommendations in the five areas of focus: trade, agricultural and fisheries policy, climate change, energy security and migration.
- i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the various points in it, particularly those relating to climate change and energy.
it is therefore urgent to continue along this path by creating the conditions for the implementation of a more comprehensive approach to poverty eradication and sustainable development and to promote policy coherence for development.
this report draws attention to several important aspects, which we value, such as: the lack of funding in the area of health; the failure of a substantial part of the fisheries agreements, in particular the weak results achieved in the fields of scientific and technical cooperation and sustainable development of the sector (an aspect which we pointed out in the opinion of the committee on fisheries, for which we were rapporteurs); the importance of policies to promote equality between men and women; the recognition of the right of each country to define its own policies, priorities and strategies in a democratic way.
- i voted in favour of this report because: it recognises the inconsistencies that have existed in the policies between the eu and developing countries (dcs) on trade, fisheries, agriculture, energy, migration and climate change, and that have affected the development objectives; it calls for the eu to respect the economic, social and cultural rights of peoples; calls on the commission to include in all eu trade agreements provisions on social matters, full employment, decent work, respect for workers' rights and gender equality, and the promotion of collective bargaining.
the eu's efforts in policy coherence for development (pcd) insist that pcd is not just a legal obligation, but responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive policy-making; providing an opportunity for the eu to establish sustainable and equitable partnerships with developing countries, going beyond mere development cooperation.
− policy coherence for development is not just a legal obligation, but the design of responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive policies that provide an opportunity for the eu to establish sustainable and equitable partnerships with developing countries, while also giving governments and societies in developing countries the opportunity and responsibility to generate success for themselves.
- i voted in favour of this report because it recognises the policy inconsistencies that have existed between the eu and developing countries (dcs) in trade, fisheries, agriculture, energy, migration and climate change, and which have affected development objectives; calls on the eu to respect the economic, social and cultural rights of peoples; calls on the commission to include in all eu trade agreements provisions on social matters, full employment, decent work, respect for workers' rights and gender equality and the promotion of collective bargaining.
welcoming the european union's efforts in the field of development, parliament insisted that this should not be a mere legal obligation but should be a responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive policy approach and provide an opportunity for the eu to establish sustainable and equitable partnerships with developing countries, going beyond mere cooperation.
− we agree with some of the 'calls for attention' in the report: the lack of funding in the area of health; the failure of a substantial part of the fisheries agreements, in particular the weak results achieved in the fields of scientific and technical cooperation and sustainable development of the sector; the importance of policies to promote equality between men and women; the recognition of the right of each country to define its own policies, priorities and strategies in a democratic way.
we should not waste time inventing apparently innovative instruments which only increase differences, inflate financial markets and hide the real ways in which the necessary increase in the community budget could and should have been implemented long ago.
this policy, which was not properly addressed in the last review of the land concession law, prevents national reconciliation and lasting stability, increases inequality, harms sustainable development and calls into question the legitimacy of the government.
− i welcome the successful conclusion of the negotiations for a new agreement extending the energy star programme, as the programme has been extremely effective in driving the office equipment market towards greater energy efficiency.
− the energy star programme was set up by the united states environmental protection agency (epa) to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment.
in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
- the recommendation under consideration, by béla kovács, concerns the proposal for a council decision on the signing and conclusion of the agreement between the government of the united states of america (usa) and the european union (eu) on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
the existing agreement between the eu and the us expired on 31 december 2011. however, the previous month, bilateral negotiations to continue the energy star programme for another five years had been concluded.
this programme, created by the us environmental protection agency, aims to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment and was applied to the eu in 2006 when the eu/us agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment was renewed.
given the extreme importance of environmental issues, particularly in terms of energy saving, and given that the energy star programme has proven to be very effective in making changes to office equipment to increase its energy efficiency, i am voting in favour of this recommendation.
the report approves the conclusion of an agreement to extend the energy star programme, set up by the us environmental protection agency (epa) to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment.
− the energy star programme was set up by the united states environmental protection agency (epa) to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment.
in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
the agreement, which was renewed in 2006 for a second five-year period, provides for the implementation of the energy star programme in the eu.
- i voted in favour of this report giving a favourable opinion to the council on the conclusion of the eu-us agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
− the european parliament welcomes the successful conclusion of the negotiations for a new agreement extending the energy star programme, as the programme has been extremely effective in driving the office equipment market towards greater energy efficiency.
− this report supports the agreement to extend the energy star programme, set up by the us environmental protection agency (epa), its owner, to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment.
food and energy goods), which could facilitate price formation and the efficient hedging of price risks to which producers and consumers are exposed and thus prevent and correct asset bubbles and other distortions.
− after 18 years of negotiations, russia was officially accepted as a wto member in december 2011. the eu and russia have a relationship of interdependent trading partners, notably in raw materials and energy sources.
including the creation by russia of an energy market, the liberalisation of public procurement and the privatisation of the service sector.
− the last elections in georgia, held on 1 october 2012, were a historic milestone, as for the first time they were held in a completely fair and free environment.
the majority of meps are willing to do anything to dominate the country geostrategically, seizing important resources from the whole region and the guarantees of energy supply on which the eu depends.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the crisis and austerity, as well as the international climate and the geostrategic situation in europe, force us to take precautionary measures aimed at the welfare of the general population.
the commission has taken steps, in particular, to improve safety levels for workers and to protect the environment.
− in a context where the private monopoly of their production persists, it is difficult, if not impossible, to improve the free movement of chemicals and mixtures in the internal market and to correct distortions of competition while ensuring high levels of worker safety and environmental protection.
- i approve this report, considering that the exploration protocol is an important document of the 'barcelona convention' for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean.
in view of these facts, we must still have on the horizon the 2010 gulf of mexico oil spill and other accidents which prove the importance of the adoption of this report in order to promote not only safety but also sustainable governance of exploitation activities, coupled with appropriate international cooperation.
− on 27 october 2011, the european commission published a proposal for a council decision on the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the sea-bed and its subsoil, referred to as the offshore protocol.
recent accidents, in particular the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010, have highlighted the need to increase the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration activities, highlighting the need for a policy of sustainable governance of oil and gas exploration activities, and promoting international cooperation to improve offshore safety and the response capacity of all parties involved.
− the european union has sought, in its internal and external action, to be a force for good quality of life for its citizens and for the protection of the environment and nature.
the mediterranean sea is not exempt from this concern and the need to take measures to protect it from pollution.
although the european union is a party to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, it has not yet signed or ratified the said protocol.
i believe that the union must do everything in its power to combat offshore pollution and must seek the best technical solutions to the problems it and the member states are facing in this respect.
− the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil (offshore protocol), adopted on 14 october 1994, is one of the protocols to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean.
a policy of sustainable governance of these oil and gas exploration activities is therefore imperative to prevent an accident of this kind from happening.
an accident would have immediate and large-scale effects in a semi-open sea such as the mediterranean, causing tragic consequences for its fragile economy and ecosystems and undermining the efforts of the eu mediterranean member states to achieve and maintain good environmental status of their marine waters in the mediterranean as required by the marine strategy framework directive.
- this report approves the eu's accession to the protocol on the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil.
the protocol commits the acceding states to take, individually or through bilateral/multilateral cooperation, all appropriate measures to prevent, reduce, control and control pollution in the mediterranean sea area, including the waters, the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil, resulting from exploration and exploitation activities (oil and gas), ensuring that the best available techniques, environmentally effective and economically appropriate are used for this purpose.
− the need to increase the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration activities has been dramatically enhanced by recent accidents, most notably the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010. offshore exploration activities in the mediterranean are expected to increase due to the discovery of new fossil fuel reserves and such an accident could have immediate large-scale effects on a semi-open sea such as the mediterranean, causing tragic consequences for its economy and fragile ecosystems and undermining the efforts of the eu mediterranean member states to achieve and maintain good environmental status of their marine waters in the mediterranean.
− in october 2011, the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil.
i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the protocol is essential to increase the sustainability and safety of offshore activities and, consequently, to safeguard the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from the exploration and exploitation of fossil fuels.
− the european union and all its mediterranean member states, together with 14 other mediterranean third countries, are contracting parties to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, also known as the 'barcelona convention'.
one of the protocols to the barcelona convention, known as the 'offshore protocol', deals with the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from the exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil.
with a view to promoting international cooperation to improve offshore safety, the ratification of this protocol by the eu represents an important step, especially in view of the need to respond to the expected increase in offshore exploration activities in the mediterranean as a result of the discovery of new fossil fuel reserves, and to ensure a sustainable governance policy for offshore oil and gas exploration, exploitation and production.
− the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and the subsoil, signed in october 1994, is part of the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, signed in 1976, to which the eu and all its mediterranean member states are parties.
the opportunities offered by the sea, in particular the commitment to blue growth, merit our attention in relation to certain activities that can cause the destruction of the marine environment.
we must not shrink from our responsibility to preserve the marine ecosystem.
- this report, which we voted for, approves the eu's accession to the protocol on the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil.
at the end of these negotiations, a new protocol was initialled on 3 february 2012 covering a three-year period starting on 1 january 2013. the current fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries and is a source of mutual benefit to both parties.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries and is a source of mutual benefit for both parties.
- i voted in favour of this report because it advocates a responsible and sustainable fisheries agreement, based on exhaustive assessments of available resources, between the european union, the government of denmark and the local government of greenland.
by extending the scope beyond the acquisition of fishing rights for eu vessels, these agreements oblige contracting parties to promote responsible and sustainable fisheries policies, based on exhaustive assessments of available resources.
in this context, i therefore agree that the current fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries and is a source of mutual benefit to both parties.
i voted in favour of this recommendation as it not only allows the eu fishing fleet to continue to fish in waters under the sovereignty of denmark and the local government of greenland from 1 january 2013, but also ensures the protection of fisheries resources by promoting a responsible and sustainable fisheries policy.
i therefore consider the current fisheries partnership agreement with greenland to be consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries, and to be a source of mutual benefit to both parties.
the establishment of fishing opportunities under this app is based on scientific advice and the protocol is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and the fundamental principle of sustainable fisheries.
the fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries and is a source of mutual benefit to both parties.
the fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) commit the contracting parties to promote responsible and sustainable fisheries policies based on comprehensive assessments of available resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
− most of the responses to the crisis so far have been short-term, aiming mainly at restoring sustainability to public finances, which is crucial for the eu economy.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that if we are to return to sustainable growth in europe, it is imperative to make well-targeted social investments to prepare citizens, families and societies to adapt to changing economic conditions and new labour market requirements; to promote the reintegration of the unemployed, especially the long-term unemployed, into the labour market; to create sustainable and quality jobs; to invest in education and training, promoting improved educational outcomes and a better match of academic and vocational qualifications to labour market requirements.
− unemployment is one of the main problems facing the eu at the moment and it is urgent to find strategies for creating jobs in a sustainable way and without this being done on the basis of new indebtedness of the states.
the rapporteur insists on the current version of those responsible for this crisis as to the solution to get out of it: combining the so-called austerity and budgetary consolidation measures with an investment strategy for sustainable growth and employment.
− most of the recent responses to the economic and financial crisis are based on short-term objectives, mainly aimed at restoring sustainability to public finances, which is crucial for the eu economy.
in order to restore sustainable growth, it is essential that well-targeted investments are made in line with the objectives set out in the report on the social investment pact.
in addition to sustainable public finances, member states should focus on helping the unemployed, creating jobs and improving productivity at work.
these are some of the measures that will make it possible to create new jobs with sustainable characteristics, thus resisting the constant changes in economic cycles.
the rapporteur proposes a false solution to the problem of the economic crisis: combining so-called austerity and fiscal consolidation measures with an investment strategy for sustainable growth and employment, without taking into account that both are simply contradictory.
the next step will now be to define more clearly a promotion policy that serves to stimulate and reward: the production of specific products, included in quality schemes and agricultural practices that produce less co2 emissions, protect biodiversity and are better suited to preserve the quality of the soils and water available.
- i voted in favour of this report because i consider that a policy is needed to stimulate and reward the production of specific products, which are included in quality schemes and agricultural practices that produce less co2 emissions, protect biodiversity and are better suited to preserving the quality of the soil and water available.
- i can only welcome the european commission's communication on the information and promotion of european agricultural products and support its main aspects: the creation of more european added value in the food sector, a more attractive and secure policy in terms of its impact on the environment, more synergies between the different promotion instruments and a simpler management of the promotion itself.
this is a key strategy for the profitability and sustainability of the agricultural sector and the income of all european farmers.
in this connection, i particularly support the action to be taken in the context of the school milk and fruit distribution programmes and the creation of a sustainable agricultural model for the eu, thus benefiting our farmers and helping to overcome the current economic and financial crisis.
this new policy should focus on two aspects: - the production of specific products, which are included in quality schemes; - agricultural practices that produce less co2 emissions, protect biodiversity and are better suited to preserving the quality of the soils and the water available.
the adoption of these proposals heralds a policy for promoting european tastes which the european parliament has now clearly and unequivocally stated should be as comprehensive as possible and which should have among its main objectives the recognition that european agri-food products comply with the most stringent production standards in the world in terms of hygiene and safety; environmental and animal welfare measures; obtaining a fair price for producers; and full and objective information for the consumer.
the promotion instruments should focus more on the aspects that make the european agricultural market safer from the point of view of food safety and hygiene, animal welfare and environmental protection, compared to its competitors.
in view of the economic crisis and given that most member states and the eu in general are suffering from high costs arising from the implementation of measures for the necessary consolidation of their public accounts and sustainable balance of their budgets, it is important that the brussels bureaucratic machine also offers solutions for a more rigorous management of resources, without compromising the effectiveness of its services and preserving the rights of workers.
in the context of the current economic climate, and taking into account the commitments made by parliament in the 2012 budgetary procedure, the proposed restrictions are understandable.
i think the efforts to be highlighted are those which respect safety parameters for road users and the lowest carbon emissions from these vehicles, thus achieving a broader objective of environmental protection while ensuring the best functioning of the internal market.
the aim of the proposal is to simplify the current legal framework and to lay down new administrative and technical requirements, in particular as regards environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance.
some amendments are advocated, such as a simpler and more transparent implementation timetable; the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of emission limits for motorcycles, which would be more effective in reducing emissions and would also make it possible to reduce emissions from road transport.
- i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the objectives of simplifying the current legal framework and establishing new administrative and technical requirements, including respect for environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance.
the rapporteur believes that with the present proposal the commission intends to simplify the current legal framework and to establish new administrative and technical requirements, for example with regard to environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance.'
we value the introduction of environmental requirements for l-category vehicles and support the introduction of stricter emission limits as well as the introduction of safety measures associated with the technical characteristics of vehicles such as the mandatory introduction of anti-lock braking systems (abs) on all new motorcycles.
- i support the adoption of new rules to strengthen safety and environmental requirements for motorcycles, mopeds, scooters, four-wheelers and all-terrain vehicles, as these, although representing only 2% of the total number of kilometres travelled, are responsible for 16% of deaths on european roads.
this range of vehicles, estimated at over 30 million units in circulation, is covered by category l. the aim of the proposal is to simplify the current legal framework and to lay down new administrative and technical requirements, in particular as regards environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance.
− this proposal for a regulation aims to simplify the current legal framework by incorporating framework directive 2002/24/ec and 14 other related directives into a single proposal for a regulation, and to establish new administrative and technical requirements in the area of safety and the environment.
the rapporteur believes that the commission's current proposal aims to simplify the current legal framework and to introduce new administrative and technical requirements, for example with regard to environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance.
however, we would like to point out that the rapporteur is introducing, in a positive way, environmental requirements for l-category vehicles, is supporting the introduction of stricter emission limits and is introducing safety measures associated with the technical characteristics of vehicles, such as the mandatory introduction of anti-lock braking systems (abs) on all new motorcycles.
- i approve this report, since it proposes the harmonisation at european union level of the technical requirements for the approval of agricultural tractors with regard to numerous environmental and safety elements, in order to ensure a high level of road and occupational safety for this type of transport, as well as high standards of environmental protection.
the committee also stresses the need for a balance in the provision of vehicle repair and maintenance information, ensuring that access to technical information is provided in a comprehensive manner and that it takes account of consumer protection and fair competition, as well as concerns relating to safety, environmental protection and intellectual property.
- i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the aim of simplifying considerably the existing legislation while maintaining harmonised standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment), with a view to ensuring the functioning of the internal market and, at the same time, providing for a high level of road safety and safety at work and environmental protection.
− unfortunately, accidents involving agricultural and forestry vehicles are not uncommon in the news, and particular attention should be paid to their safety and their environmental impact.
the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the typeapproval of agricultural and forestry tractors, drawn up by mr pier antonio panzeri, is of great importance not only because the new regulation will simplify the existing legislative framework by replacing 24 directives, but also because it will help to improve environmental quality and reduce the so-called greenhouse effect.
the european commission's proposal aims to establish harmonised standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) with a view to achieving a high level of road safety and occupational safety and ensuring environmental protection.
we value the steps taken both in the field of road safety and in environmental protection.
− the purpose of this proposal is to establish harmonised standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) with a view to ensuring the functioning of the internal market and, at the same time, providing for a high level of road safety and occupational safety, without forgetting environmental protection.
the rapporteur welcomes the commission proposal as it contributes to the competitiveness of the sector by simplifying existing type-approval legislation, advocating some additional measures aimed, for example, at strengthening the requirements for bodies and organisations to which member states may delegate some assessment functions, ensuring that access to technical information is provided in a comprehensive manner and taking into account consumer protection and fair competition, and addressing concerns about safety, environmental protection and intellectual property.
a proposal that aims at the competitiveness of the sector, without reducing the level of road and occupational safety, environmental performance and attention to the transformation of the industry itself, which is mainly composed of smes.
− the purpose of this european commission proposal is to establish harmonised standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market and, at the same time, to provide for a high level of road safety and occupational safety and to ensure environmental protection.
however, the rapporteur does introduce the issue of road safety and environmental protection in a positive way, which we would like to stress.
− since the financial crisis began in 2007, the g20 has decided to take a number of regulatory measures to make the financial system safer and more sustainable.
− since the financial crisis began in 2007, the g20 has decided to take a number of regulatory measures to make the financial system safer and more sustainable.
− with the onset of the financial crisis in 2007, the g20 decided to take a series of regulatory measures to make the financial system safer and more sustainable.
− since the financial crisis began in 2007, the g20 has decided to take a number of regulatory measures to make the financial system safer and more sustainable.
- i approve this report, expressing my support for the development of social entrepreneurship in a time of economic and financial crisis, as this type of activity is a source of sustainable employment, social innovation and inclusion of vulnerable groups.
given that gradual and sustainable economic growth, increased and quality jobs and the fight against poverty are among the priorities of the single market and the europe 2020 strategy, it is advantageous to maximise the contribution of social enterprises.
a favourable and simplified regulatory framework should therefore be in place to promote the structural diversity of social enterprises, to respond to the specific nature of their activities and to provide more appropriate financial support for social entrepreneurship and social enterprises, in particular smes, promoting their growth and sustainability.
− heinz k. becker gives us a report on the social entrepreneurship initiative building an ecosystem to promote social enterprises at the heart of the economy and social innovation.
− the objectives of the social entrepreneurship initiative proposed by the ec in 2011 are to build an ecosystem to promote social enterprises at the heart of the economy and social innovation.
− the public consultation on the single market act launched by the commission revealed high levels of interest in social enterprises and the social economy in general and in their capacity to provide innovative responses to economic, social and, in some cases, environmental challenges through the development of sustainable jobs, the promotion of social inclusion and the improvement of local social services and territorial cohesion.
i believe that this report, which sets out new incentives for the creation of social enterprises, can create job opportunities for thousands of europeans, especially in the health, social care and environmental sectors, because they are growing fast in the economy as a whole.
- in view of the serious economic and financial crisis facing the european union, and taking into account the objectives of promoting stability, consolidating public accounts, sustainable and balanced growth and deepening the internal market advocated by emu, this proposal is intended to be a response by the european union to restore confidence in its currency and economy.
the sustainability of public finances in the long term also requires fair taxation, progressive taxation, good organization of tax collection and greater effectiveness in the fight against all forms of tax fraud and evasion.
- in view of the serious economic and financial crisis facing the european union, and taking into account the objectives of promoting stability, consolidating public accounts, sustainable and balanced growth and deepening the internal market advocated by emu, this proposal is intended to be a response by the european union to restore confidence in its currency and economy.
in view of the serious economic and financial crisis facing the european union, and taking into account the objectives of promoting stability, consolidating public accounts, sustainable and balanced growth and deepening the internal market advocated by emu, this proposal is intended to be a response by the european union to restore confidence in its currency and economy.
the proposals contained in the report, to be implemented in an articulated manner, will ensure a coherent and comprehensive framework capable of ensuring the eu's long-term stability and sustainable economic growth.
we also know that every shale gas extraction releases radioactive elements and heavy metals into the ground which, together with the evaporation of the toxic waste resulting from the process, constitute a real threat to public health.
we know that shale gas extraction is also a seemingly easy answer, which only thinks about the immediate, industry and profit, ignoring the people, the future and the environment.
but this is also a europe which knows, in this house, that water is an essential, vital and important resource, which knows how to protect the health of its citizens and which must protect it, which seeks to make agreements to avoid emissions and to propose energy efficiency, because we know that environmental standards are important - environmental and health standards.
so i can't even compare the nuclear industry and shale gas extraction, because, if you want my opinion on both, i think it's a total waste of water, when we can use it for much more useful purposes for humanity.
with regard to the examples given by mr goebbels, it is not by chance that he only mentions two examples, one concerning the recycling of water and the other concerning the non-addition of chemicals, because in the overwhelming majority of farms that exist, in the overwhelming majority, what we are seeing is a total waste of drinking water and the addition of chemicals that remain on the land.
our obligation, and the minimum, is to respond to what the needs of the people and the environment are, and this is a care we must take, on our behalf and on behalf of those we represent.
the environmental impacts associated with the exploitation of these deposits are significant and very negative.
it would be interesting to know if they exist, and if they do not, it would be interesting to know if this assessment, the results and the methodology of an energy return on investment assessment were made.
an energy return on invested energy assessment covering the life cycle of each of these projects in order to verify the economic balance of this technique.
we also demand that our farmers do their part to protect the environment and biodiversity, the quality of water and soil, and to fix carbon and combat climate change.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
- i approve this report, considering that although the extraction of shale gas and shale oil is highly profitable and is already common practice in the united states, canada and europe, it is still at an experimental stage, which makes it essential to take preventive measures, given the high environmental impact of this activity.
since many studies and even european public opinion associate this activity with water and soil contamination, i believe that the measures outlined in this report are appropriate, insofar as they present a demanding environmental package, which respects the essential environmental concerns.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the environmental impacts of shale gas and shale oil extraction should be taken into account and that public participation should be ensured by means of appropriate public information campaigns before the exploration phase and by means of a public consultation in the pre-exploration phases.
− gas is expected to play a key role in the transformation of the global energy system, as it contributes to reducing emissions.
i believe that this extraction of fuels, provided it respects environmental standards, is a great opportunity to strengthen the economy and increase employment and development in certain regions of the eu.
− the report is concerned with the prevention of environmental impacts associated with the exploration and extraction of unconventional shale gas and oil, through planning, testing, use of new technologies and best practices, data collection and monitoring.
in our view, at the very least, a moratorium should be imposed on the exploitation of shale gas and oil fields, given that these are techniques with large environmental impacts and quite controversial, involving drilling at high depth, bursting the shale layer and injecting water, chemicals and sand at high pressure to obtain the extraction of gas and oil.
the environmental impacts of this process are significant and very negative, in terms of groundwater contamination or water courses draining from existing masses, due to the leakage of chemicals resulting from the injection.
the amendment tabled calling on the member states to adopt this moratorium on hydraulic fracturing operations, which we support, taking into account the principles of precaution and preventive action, as well as the risks to the environment and public health, has unfortunately been rejected.
− given the rising price of oil and the need to reduce emissions of other greenhouse gases, the use of renewable energy and other non-conventional energy sources is becoming inevitable.
given that conventional gas production is declining and that this will make the eu even more dependent on energy imports from third countries, the focus on extracting unconventional gas and oil, in particular shale gas and oil, is important.
the diversification of energy sources will contribute to greater security of supply and lower energy prices.
i therefore voted in favour of the report, since it proposes to the commission that the rules on the liability of transnational companies, in particular hydrocarbon extracting companies, for environmental and social rights should be strengthened, as well as possible means of enforcement.
− this report says it wants to mitigate the environmental impacts associated with the exploration and extraction of unconventional shale gas and oil, through planning, testing, use of new technologies and best practices, data collection and monitoring.
at a minimum, a moratorium should be imposed on the exploitation of shale gas and oil fields, given that these are techniques with large environmental impacts and highly controversial, involving drilling at high depth, blasting the shale layer and injection of water, chemicals and sand at high pressure to obtain the extraction of gas and oil.
we support an amendment tabled calling on member states not to authorize any hydraulic fracturing operations, taking into account the principles of precaution and preventive action, as well as the risks to the environment and public health, which was rejected by the majority of the ep.
- i approve of this report because it not only points to the positive aspects of this type of activity, but also considers an environmental package, voted in parallel, which provides for preventive approaches in industrial and energy exploration and others linked to shale gas and oil.
i should also like to stress that we must take account of the benefits of this new type of activity, which is still under-explored in the european union, while taking into account that the environmental aspects have been well safeguarded.
− i believe that shale gas production has a role to play in the eu in the medium to long term, contributing to the eu's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, in the context of reductions by the developed countries group, while ensuring security of energy supply and competitiveness, which is the basis of the energy roadmap 2050. i urge the commission to come forward with recommendations for all shale gas wells in the eu to reduce evasive methane emissions.
i believe that the 'polluter pays' principle should be applied rigorously to shale gas and oil exploration activities, particularly in relation to waste water treatment, and that companies should be fully liable for any direct or indirect damage they may cause.
- with the increase in world energy demands, oil, which for decades was the main source of energy, began to show signs that its reserves were running low.
at the moment, attention has been focused on the exploitation of so-called shale gas and oil, a fuel that is widely exploited in the united states and whose stocks on american soil guarantee the energy supply of that country for the next 45 years.
at eu level, although its existence is confirmed in several countries in central and eastern europe, there are still many reservations about the value added of this type of fuel, mainly due to fears of the side effects of its exploitation in the areas of health and the environment.
i do not think, however, that the eu can afford to miss the train of new energy resources.
it should therefore look at all the positive factors, such as the impact on the economy, but also the negative ones, especially in the areas of health and the environment, and look for ways to eliminate or substantially reduce them.
the report aims to promote the exploration and extraction of unconventional shale gas and oil, citing industrial policy and energy market objectives put forward by the european commission in the context of the desired transition of the energy system to the so-called decarbonised economy.
the development of the sector's infrastructure and industry is advocated, and concern is expressed that this should be financially sustainable, aspects which not only give rise to reservations but also exclude the necessary environmental concerns.
the capture of shale gas is now a highly controversial technique, which poses major environmental risks, including contamination of ground and surface water, as well as the inherent risks of rock instability.
moreover, the return on energy consumed by this extraction method has not been proven to be positive.
it would be important to carry out life-cycle energy return on invested energy (eroi) assessments of each of these projects in order to check their economic balance sheet.
- i voted in favour of this report on industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil.
this document considers a stable regulatory framework to be essential both for creating the right environment for gas companies to invest in areas with shortcomings such as infrastructure and research and development, and for avoiding market distortions.
− this report analyses a wide range of issues relating to the development of shale gas and oil in the european union, including the following: potential reserves in some member states; the impact of shale gas development on the eu market and decreasing dependence on russia; the role of shale gas in energy security; shale gas development in the context of the transactional back-up plan for a decarbonised economy; the licensing framework; public opinion; and, finally, the importance of using best available practices and technologies.
i voted in favour of the report because it proposes that safety and environmental standards be respected, taking as a reference matrix the good practices and legislation already in place in the united states of america and canada (in particular those in the province of british columbia and the province of alberta), countries where shale gas extraction has been taking place for a longer time.
in addition to the above, i also consider it important that the commission and the public authorities of the member states review and improve the regulatory frameworks in order to ensure that the exploitation, extraction and marketing of this energy source is done in an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable way in the long term.
− the report aims to promote the exploration and extraction of unconventional shale gas and oil, taking into account industrial and energy market aspects, in line with the european commission's objective of placing gas as a substantial element in the transformation of the energy system towards the so-called decarbonised economy.
the development of the sector's infrastructure and industry is advocated here, and concern is expressed that this is financially sustainable, aspects which not only give us reservations but also exclude the necessary environmental concerns.
shale gas capture is today a highly controversial technique due to the environmental impact and complexity of the operation, involving drilling to high depth, bursting the shale layer and injecting water, chemicals and sand at high pressure to provide extraction of the gas and oil.
this process poses major environmental risks, including contamination of groundwater or watercourses draining from existing landfills, due to the chemicals resulting from the injection.
- gas will play a key role in reducing emissions.
in this context, shale gas and other unconventional gas sources are becoming potential and important sources of supply in europe, and could bring about radical changes in global energy markets.
− in 2011, the work of the committee on petitions focused mainly on environmental and fundamental rights issues, whether in the discussion of petitions in the committee, new petitions received, reports and hearings, and fact-finding visits.
given that the environment is the area with the highest number of petitions and infringements, representing almost 20% of the total number, the committee on petitions invited commissioner potočnik to its meeting.
in 2011, the work of the committee on petitions focused mainly on environmental issues and fundamental rights/justice, whether in the discussion of petitions in the committee, new petitions received, reports and hearings and fact-finding visits.
the most common subjects covered in the petitions were: 1. violation of fundamental rights; 2. the functioning of the internal market and 3. attacks on the environment.
the report covers the most common topics in petitions by citizens or groups of citizens, such as breaches of eu law in the fields of the environment, justice and the internal market, with a significant number of cases concerned with complaints about decisions taken by national authorities or judgments of national courts.
in 2011, the work of the committee on petitions focused mainly on environmental and fundamental rights issues, whether in the discussion of petitions in the committee, new petitions received, reports and hearings, or in fact-finding visits.
given that the environment is the area with the highest number of petitions and infringements, representing almost 20% of the total number, the committee on petitions invited commissioner potočnik to its meeting.
it also covers the most frequently discussed topics in these documents, such as alleged breaches of eu law in the fields of the environment, justice and the internal market, with a significant number of cases going to the committee on petitions complaining about decisions taken by national authorities or judgments of national courts.
mr president, commissioner, two issues that would be worth discussing in depth as we prepare for another climate change conference: the first is the carbon market.
the same european union that is very concerned about climate change is pursuing trade liberalization and deregulation in the rest of the world, which significantly increases the flows of energy and materials and, consequently, the co2 emissions associated with the satisfaction of the most basic human needs.
bridging the gap between the available scientific data and the current commitments of the parties to the framework convention on climate change is urgently needed.
according to a united nations study published this week, greenhouse gas emissions levels continue to rise and are 14% above 2020 targets, with a temperature increase of 3 to 5°c predicted this century in the absence of rapid action.
all governments meeting in doha need to raise the bar by ensuring that a legally binding global agreement is finalised to limit global warming to 2°c.
the costs of inaction are documented and will be higher if emissions reductions are delayed for decades.
the eu must give a new impetus to international climate negotiations and invest in the transition to a green economy, showing that it is possible to reduce emissions without losing competitiveness and jobs.
the recommendations of this parliament in the reports here - the operationalization of the solidarity clause, cyber defence, the security implications of climate change - are essential for the european union to have strategic autonomy and also serve europeans in this way to assume the commitments they have within nato, the un and other strategic partnerships as security providers on a global scale.
so it reduces shore visits, thereby saving fuel and reducing pollutant emissions, it prevents the shark from partially thawing on land to separate fins and bodies, which have distinct markets, and then later being refrozen.
the commission is deluding itself into thinking that it can reform the sector, which sees it as a second environment commissioner and sees itself as an orphan, rebelling in the future with the means at its disposal.
the promotion of positive discrimination against segments and operators using more selective gear and equipment, with less impact on marine resources and the marine environment, and with greater benefits for the communities in which they operate in terms of job creation and the quality of that employment.
actions in the following areas: improving safety and working conditions on board, fish conservation conditions and energy efficiency of vessels; promoting the rejuvenation of the sector, with the entry and retention of young people in the activity; supporting the construction of infrastructure such as fishing ports and facilities for the landing, storage and sale of fishery products; supporting forms of organisation, association and cooperation of professionals in the sector; promoting the role of women in fishing and enhancing activities carried out on land.
their economic and social sustainability should be an objective, ensuring that they are subject to a differentiated fishing regime that gives priority to access to resources, allows for proximity management and protects the fishing rights enjoyed by the fishermen of those communities against transferable fishing rights.
it is also important for their sustainability to take account of the regime of access to waters, especially in regions with marine biogeographical basins, with a small continental shelf and scarce resources, concentrated in seamounts and fisheries that must have protected access.
sometimes so unusually low that they cannot be explained by china's equally low wages and equally low environmental standards alone.
on the contrary, the devastating chinese competition also affects some of the most innovative industries in the european union, including the solar panel industry, which has been seeing a huge increase in imports of chinese products, raising serious concerns about the economic sustainability of that european industry.
third, the european union and the united states are the main markets for pv applications due to public support schemes for renewable energy.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, and the establishment of a european energy charter.
the plan, through the proposed measures, ensures the conservation status of the entire baltic salmon stock, making sustainable exploitation possible.
the specific objectives therefore focus on the need to ensure that baltic salmon fisheries are exploited in a sustainable manner and to safeguard the genetic integrity and diversity of baltic salmon.
i could not therefore fail to support these measures which are intended to protect the sustainable fishery of baltic salmon.
− the sustainable management of fisheries resources is a matter of concern to responsible citizens, environmental organisations and all those responsible for this sector.
the salmon stock is in significant decline, due to the absence of a multiannual sustainable management plan and to unregulated catches which increase recreational fishing, which often takes on a commercial character.
- the report is based on the commission proposal to establish a multiannual plan for the management of salmon stocks in the baltic sea to ensure that the conservation status of baltic stocks, including river salmon stocks, is favourable and allows for sustainable exploitation.
the main objectives of the proposal are to ensure that salmon is farmed in accordance with msy (maximum sustainable yield) and that the genetic integrity and diversity of salmon stocks in the baltic are safeguarded.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be an important element in improving the regulation, management, conservation and sustainable exploitation of this fishery resource, which are absolutely necessary conditions for the recovery of the baltic salmon stock.
in order to ensure that this status is favourable, it is necessary to approve the proposal for a regulation which guides member states towards sustainable exploitation, defined by obligations to implement and define conservation measures, ensuring that: (a) the exploitation of salmon stocks is based on the principle of maximum sustainable catches, and (b) that the integrity and genetic diversity of the stocks are safeguarded.
− the objective of this proposal is to implement a multiannual management plan for fisheries exploiting salmon stocks in the baltic sea, in order to ensure the conservation status of the stock and the sustainable exploitation of the sector.
these measures are aimed at maintaining sustainable fisheries, and this is important for fishermen and the environment.
− technical conservation measures are guidelines that fishermen across the european union must follow on a daily basis when fishing to ensure that the way and place of fishing complies with sustainability criteria.
the measures concern minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh size, fishing defence zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, the criterion for using more selective fishing gear and measures to protect the marine environment and therefore have a considerable impact on the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp).
- for the european union, and especially for a country like portugal, with a maritime vocation and a strong fishing and canning industry, it is essential to maintain fishing as a viable and sustainable economic activity.
overall, these measures are very important for achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp), covering parameters such as fishing defence zones and periods, minimum mesh size of fishing nets, limitation of by-catches, minimum landing sizes, as well as criteria for the use of more selective fishing gear and the adoption of measures aimed at protecting the marine environment.
technical conservation measures shall ensure that the fishing form and place comply with the sustainability criteria.
those measures concern minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh size, fishing defence zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, the criterion for the use of the most selective fishing gear and other regulatory standards aimed at protecting the marine environment and therefore have a considerable impact on the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp).
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the measures proposed in the report contribute to the sustainability of fisheries policy and the preservation of ecosystems.
these measures are guidelines that fishermen must follow when fishing to ensure that the way and place of fishing complies with sustainability criteria.
i believe that the practice of fining is unacceptable from an environmental point of view because it threatens the sustainability of some of the shark species targeted by this practice, from a social and economic point of view because it involves the waste of a food commodity with commercial value, and also from a moral point of view because it is an act of total disregard for animal life.
- i welcome this report, considering that the fight against climate change must remain a priority, both at european and international level.
i believe that the fight against climate change, in addition to its objective in itself, also contributes to sustainable growth, more employment and less dependence on imported energy sources.
− with just a few days to go until the cop 18 climate change conference in doha, 26 november to 7 december, it is relevant to know what steps the council is taking to ensure that the un framework conference on climate change produces concrete progress and results, especially with regard to the necessary modifications to the kyoto protocol, before the second commitment period which will start on 1 january 2013. equally important is to set an example by respecting your commitments in terms of funding and meeting the objectives you set.
- the motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, following a number of questions for oral answer, concerns the conference on climate change to be held in doha, qatar, from 26 november to 7 december 2012. the recent natural disasters that have affected several countries, including italy, the united states of america (hurricane sandy) and portugal, and caused not only dozens of victims but millions of euros in damage, should lead governments to take the necessary environmental measures to prevent the average temperature of the globe from continuing to rise with the consequences we all know.
although the cost of reducing greenhouse gas emissions may be high, it will always be far less than the consequences of not taking these measures.
i therefore hope not only that the kyoto protocol will be extended, but that its objectives will be increased, that it will be extended to include developing countries and that it will be ratified by the largest emitters of greenhouse gases: the united states of america, china and india.
the aim is to introduce robust accounting rules for 'land use', land use change and forestry, as well as for the reduction of emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, in particular with regard to the technical assessment of forest reference levels.
while we agree on some points, we strongly disagree on others: the advocacy of creating a global carbon market, with "links between the eu emissions trading scheme and other emissions trading schemes", at a time when the ineffectiveness and perversity of this market approach is clearly visible; the advocacy of assigning a bargaining value by assigning a price to the "goods and services" provided by biodiversity; the halfway point towards the commodification and private appropriation of nature and its resources; the removal, as a result of the plenary vote, of the reference to patents (saying that developing countries will not be obliged to purchase them).
- the ep is calling for the adoption of a new directive on the protection of the environment and for the protection of the environment from harmful substances and their by-products.
− the doha conference (cop 18) should build on the momentum achieved in durban to ensure that a legally binding global agreement is finalised in 2015. this agreement should be consistent with the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities' and should recognise the need for all major emitters to adopt ambitious and sufficient targets and corresponding policy measures for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
greater economic, monetary, fiscal, social and political harmonization we have a critical mass of 500 million citizens, a trade surplus that overshadows the united states and china, a currency that in a decade has become the second largest in the world (hence much of the reason for the attacks of the commonly called "markets"), and a social model that is the envy of all other continents (which we will have to reform, however, because its sustainability is compromised).
these developments are inseparable from the needs for access to and control of natural and energy resources on which the eu monopolies depend.
− the geostrategic environment in which the european union (eu) finds itself and the challenges it faces are forcing the institutions, in particular the council, to rethink the common security and defence policy.
in short, it is putting at risk the free and peaceful coexistence of citizens and the survival and balance of their communities and the environment around them.
- i support this report because i believe there is a clear need for stronger multilateral cooperation and better global governance on climate security.
in my view, the european union, as a major global player in the environment, should start thinking about mitigating the main effects of climate change in its most important security strategies.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that climate change and natural disasters have an impact on the security and stability of societies, both economically and politically, and that the eu should take these factors into account in its foreign policy.
- several observers point to the climate issue as one of the main likely causes of future conflicts.
the question of the union's energy dependence is particularly important and cannot be left out of this reflection and our future action.
- recent natural disasters, which are occurring more or less everywhere, such as the recent hurricane sandy in the united states of america (usa), emphasise the growing need to equalise climate change mitigation measures.
this report, by indrek tarand, focuses on the role of the common security and defence policy (csdp) in climate-related crises and natural disasters.
we might be tempted to think that climate change doesn't affect us because we live far from the coastline and sea level rise won't hit us, nor do we build on water lines or inconsistent soils, etc.
the consequences of climate change affect all people, directly or indirectly.
it is therefore urgent to improve preventive measures and our climate security, especially in the most vulnerable areas.
we must not forget that climate change has a direct impact on security and the economy, and can lead people to emigrate to other parts of the globe.
finally, a word to stress the need for cooperation at international level, particularly with the usa and emerging countries responsible for high greenhouse gas emissions.
the real aim is to respond to the intensifying global struggle for access to and domination of the regions from which the eu monopolies depend on the energy resources and key raw materials.
the emergence or threat of conflicts in third countries due to climate phenomena will only be effectively resolved if their causes are properly identified and addressed.
i believe that this approach can have a positive effect on combating climate-related crises and natural disasters, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
− climate change and its socioeconomic consequences pose challenges to the common security and defence policy.
the conflicts that have emerged in the horn of africa and the sahel have been triggered by climate change in these regions.
the high representative should therefore take climate change into account by placing it at the heart of risk analyses for civilian and military missions.
the need to take account of climate change should be a cross-cutting issue for the entire external action service of the european union.
i think this approach is deeply wrong and i believe that from the point of view of cooperation, security and defence and access to energy sources and raw materials, these states now have a relevant position vis-à-vis the european union.
the real objectives are the liberalization of trade relations, invoking the wto agreements, and access to the energy resources of which this country is fertile.
it is important that this eu-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement takes the form of a comprehensive framework for the development of relations, addressing all the priority areas that allow for a closer and more cooperative relationship between the two parties, including human rights, the rule of law, good governance, youth and education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, environmental sustainability and water, as well as the fight against common threats and challenges.
the current regime for access to waters should therefore be adjusted, with particular attention to regions with a sea basin with few fisheries resources in the interests of their sustainability.
- the creation of mechanisms to ensure that the so-called positive externalities generated by small-scale fishing and not remunerated by the market are recognised, both at the environmental level and at the level of economic and social cohesion of coastal communities; - the creation of specific support mechanisms to be used in emergency situations such as natural disasters, stoppages of activity caused by stock replenishment plans or sudden increases in fuel prices.
it is therefore essential that the new cfp exploits the potential of small fishing communities, not only in tackling the social and financial crisis by fixing families who are in danger of leaving their villages, but also by contributing in a sustainable way to the conservation of resources and the conservation of the marine ecosystem.
however, regardless of its geographical location, small-scale fishing activity has a certain set of common characteristics, including close links with local communities, the prevalence of family units, micro and small enterprises, fishing relatively close to the coast and with short stay at sea, the use of more selective fishing gear with less impact on marine resources and the marine environment, among others.
the reform of the cfp should also encourage improvements in the environmental, economic and social sustainability of the fleet and encourage developments that will bring greater benefits to communities, in particular in terms of job creation.
to achieve improvements in international fisheries, the eu must lead in environmental and management terms through a plan that is consensual for long-distance fishing and for which it must obtain the agreement of third countries.
because we are faced with a good report which can change the behaviour of this sector at global level and which will ensure sustainability in all international waters, i voted in favour.
the fisheries agreements, hitherto known as 'partnerships', which the commission now wants to designate as 'sustainable fisheries' (sfa), are still in need of major changes.
it is therefore important that these diverse activities are properly regulated so that the eu's fishing interests are pursued in a framework of full legality and sustainability at environmental, economic and social levels.
on the other hand, it is also necessary to ensure that the eu fleet maintains its strategic and competitive presence in third country waters, while strictly complying with the requirements of environmental sustainability, social responsibility, respect for fundamental human rights principles and operating in accordance with the standards applied to operators in the eu fishing sector.
the reform of the common fisheries policy thus aims to contribute to the promotion of the long-term sustainable development of the sector, to obtain high-quality scientific advice and to contribute to better governance and management of financial assistance to the sector.
many of the foreseeable catastrophic social, economic and environmental consequences of these agreements are already known.
we know that one of its main objectives is to increase european imports of raw materials for the production of agrofuels, which will put enormous pressure on resources such as land and water, with the establishment of monocultures that will have devastating effects in terms of creating a foreseeable economic, food and energy crisis, in addition to significant environmental impacts.
it also enshrines a chapter on sustainable development and labour rights, and the creation of domestic mechanisms and dialogue with civil society which will involve citizens, whether individually or in an organised, collective manner, such as trade unions, employee representatives or other relevant stakeholders such as ngos.
here are a few examples: - the dialogue with civil society; the dialogue with the unions; the peace talks with farc; the reduction of poverty; water preservation; indigenous peoples’ rights; strengthening of fundamental labour rights shown, for example, by the ratification of the eight ilo fundamental conventions and three of the four governance conventions;- in colombia: the comprehensive and ambitious action plan on human, environmental and labour rights up to 2014, with clear and verifiable targets; the high-level dialogue on human rights between colombia and the eu; the fight against impunity; the witness protection programme; the creation of the ministry of labour; the regulation of the actions of worker cooperatives; the new restitution and victims’ law.
- in peru: the national strategy for the prevention and the eradication of child labour; the national plan on environmental action; the act and regulation on prior consultation; and the new high-level institutions where civil society is now participating.
last june, in a resolution that we passed in this house, we requested a roadmap for the improvement of human and labour rights, better environmental protection and a more efficient monitoring and scrutiny by civil society of the implementation of the pre-established goals.
first, there is the chapter on sustainable development with an advanced definition of the core label standards, which have to be defended.
the need for a transparent, functioning and regulated digital single market to enable smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to boost economic development and job creation in the eu was highlighted in this report.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources.
this report aims to improve the energy environmental quality of most businesses and public and regional administrations, so as to reduce energy expenditure in offices, which i welcome.
- i voted in favour of this report on the community energy efficiency labelling programme for office equipment.
this report extends an existing agreement between the european union and the united states which will enable both parties to continue their efforts to save energy in the tertiary sector, particularly in offices, by providing information and raising awareness among end users of office equipment and supplies.
office equipment accounts for a considerable part of the electricity consumption in the tertiary sector, and therefore it is of no small importance to introduce energy efficiency mechanisms which allow cost savings but above all savings in environmental resources.
i would also stress that the only substantial change in this agreement compared with the previous one relates to the product and equipment approval system which is different in the eu and the united states: the eu maintains its system of self-certification by manufacturers, while the united states switches to a system of energy efficiency certification awarded by independent bodies.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 'energy efficiency labelling programme for office equipment', as it will allow the application of the rules resulting from the agreement with the united states of america on the coordination of programmes in this field and thus contribute to the achievement of the energy efficiency targets in the european union.
i believe that member states should encourage authorities at regional and local level to use energy efficiency requirements in public procurement for the supply of such equipment.
− the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european community on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment expired on 28 december 2011. a new five-year agreement with the united states is therefore necessary.
it is also necessary to update the references to the union quality labelling or certification schemes concerning the establishment of a framework to define ecodesign requirements for energy-related products.
- the report by mr kovács on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european union (eu) programme for energy-efficiency labelling of office equipment and amending regulation (ec) no 106/2008 on this subject.
the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european community on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment expired on 28 december 2011. the council has, however, adopted a decision authorising the commission to negotiate a new agreement for a period of five years.
between 2009 and 2010, the ep and the council adopted several legal instruments (directives 2009/125/ec and 2010/30/eu and regulation (ec) no 66/2010) on the ecodesign of energy-related products and the adoption of an eu eco-label scheme.
in times of crisis and in the fight against climate change, improving the energy efficiency of equipment should be a concern for all citizens.
this report now legislates on the regulation on the eu programme for energy-efficiency labelling of office equipment, based on the same energy star programme created by the us epa.
− the present draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european union programme for energy-efficiency labelling of office equipment amends the previous regulation to define that energy efficiency improvement objectives take into account the need to ensure a high level of environmental and consumer protection.
− this report aims to continue the energy star programme, as defined in the agreement between the united states and the european union.
the agreement to extend the energy star programme, set up by the us environmental protection agency, aimed at improving the energy efficiency of office equipment, was approved in parliament's plenary session about a month ago.
this report now legislates on the regulation on the eu programme for energy-efficiency labelling of office equipment, based on the same energy star programme brought in by the us epa.
this is a proposal that has the merit of helping businesses in the member states (ms) more directly to achieve more sustainable growth towards a more inclusive europe.
i support this report because i believe that the deepening of the digital single market will benefit both individual citizens and businesses through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
member states should be more committed than ever to supporting smes as a way to leverage sustainable growth, create jobs and generate wealth.
finally, i would stress the financial vulnerability of the georgian economy and the need for reforms to help ensure a more sustainable balance of payments and budgetary situation in the medium term.
- i welcome this report, considering that with this report the directive will extend the powers of the agency to prevent environmental disasters such as oil spills, combat piracy at sea and give it a stronger role in improving the training of professionals in the sectors associated with the sea.
i would also stress the importance of the contribution that this agency can make to other policy objectives, such as reducing emissions of polluting gases from shipping and improving the environmental status of european waters.
− the european maritime safety agency (emsa) was set up in response to the pollution caused by the sinking of the oil tanker erika and started its work in march 2003. the agency shall contribute to ensuring maritime safety and preventing marine pollution caused by ships, including by monitoring and evaluating the implementation of relevant eu legislation.
established in 2003 in response to pollution caused by the sinking of the oil tanker erika, the emsa is now helping to ensure maritime safety and prevent pollution of european waters by monitoring and assessing the implementation of relevant european legislation.
- i voted in favour of the report on the european maritime safety agency because it gives the agency new powers, in particular the prevention of environmental disasters, and promotes synergies with other policy priorities, such as the reduction of greenhouse gases from ships and the maintenance of the good ecological status of marine waters.
− the emsa was set up in 2003 in response to the erika oil tanker disaster and the environmental contingencies it created.
the emsa was established as a means of responding to the problems of marine pollution following the sinking of the oil tanker erika.
the european environment agency has a major responsibility in preventing pollution caused by offshore oil and gas installations and the transport of these fuels, and can also help to combat piracy, which in recent years has caused panic in some regions, such as the horn of africa.'
this position is aimed at increasing the capacity of the european maritime safety agency to prevent and combat environmental disasters such as oil spills.
we recognize the validity of the environmental concerns mentioned in the report.
a coordinated response to pollution by harmful and dangerous substances such as hydrocarbons is needed.
the revised regulation of the european maritime safety agency will increase the agency's capacity to prevent and combat environmental disasters such as oil spills and will also contribute, at the request of the european parliament, to the fight against maritime piracy.
− the european maritime safety agency (emsa) contributes to ensuring safety and preventing marine pollution caused by ships, in particular by monitoring and assessing the implementation of relevant european union legislation.
i am voting in favour of the recommendation to strengthen the agency's powers, in particular to prevent and combat environmental disasters, to combat maritime piracy and to improve training for maritime and inland waterway transport jobs.
the report endorses the council's first reading position to increase the capacity of the european maritime safety agency, with the express aim of preventing and combating environmental disasters such as oil spills.
we recognize the validity of the environmental concerns mentioned in the report.
a coordinated response to pollution by harmful and dangerous substances such as hydrocarbons is needed.
furthermore, i argue that patent holders should pay a renewable annual fee so that the patent unit is successful.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
there will be accelerated destruction of natural resources (particularly land and water) and the environment, the establishment of monocultures that will destroy the food production capacity of those countries, making them more dependent.
- i voted in favour of the report on the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the eu-central america association agreement, as it includes provisions to ensure that the liberalisation process is carried out in a transparent manner, in accordance with the most important international labour and environmental conventions, so as to avoid penalising the most vulnerable sectors and regions.
it must be an effective safeguard clause which requires respect for human rights, social rights such as compliance with ilo recommendations, environmental rights, etc.
for these reasons, numerous organizations have denounced the social, labour and environmental dumping resulting from this agreement, and more generally from free trade and the subjection of agriculture to the rules of the world trade organization.
for these reasons, numerous organizations have denounced the social, labour and environmental dumping resulting from this agreement, and more generally from free trade and the subjection of agriculture to the rules of the world trade organization.
in this area it is important to monitor the sustainability of european sectors affected by agreements with central america.
i hope that the conclusion and ratification of the association agreement, which provides for tariff reductions with the aim of creating a bi-regional free trade area, will be facilitated in order to encourage profitable investment with greater prominence for central america in world trade in the context of sustainable development, social cohesion and regional integration.
as in the agreement with colombia and peru, this agreement also contains clauses on development cooperation and political dialogue with a view to promoting sustainable development, reducing poverty and consolidating stability in the region.
- i voted in favour of this agreement because i consider that, in addition to the economic benefits related to trade liberalisation, the text contains important clauses on development cooperation and political dialogue, with a view to helping to promote sustainable development, reduce poverty and consolidate stability in the central american region.
the intention is to open the doors of these countries to european investment, to open the door to the major european economic groups, especially industry and services, to colonize promising markets, to gain access to cheap and unprotected labour and to abundant natural resources, promoting intensive production models, export-oriented, which exhaust natural resources and degrade the environment.
there will be accelerated destruction of natural resources (particularly land and water) and the environment.
there will be an accelerated depletion and degradation of natural resources (particularly land and water) and the environment.
there will be accelerated destruction of natural resources (particularly land and water) and the environment, the establishment of monocultures that will destroy the food production capacity of those countries, making them more dependent.
- i approve this report which includes a safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism for bananas in the trade agreement with these countries, considering that for the first time it includes an obligation on the part of the commission to monitor the sustainability of the sector in the european market and to report regularly to the european parliament.
in this respect, it is important to monitor the sustainability of the european banana sector affected by this agreement.
this text was agreed in a trilogue, and it is the most clear compromise text, not only in terms of safeguards but also in terms of fulfilling socioeconomic and environmental criteria, as was the case in the text of the main agreement.
- i voted in favour of the report on the 'application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement', as it includes provisions to ensure that the liberalisation process is carried out in a transparent manner, in accordance with the most important international labour and environmental conventions, so as to avoid penalising the most vulnerable sectors and regions.
- i approve this report, considering that with this new agreement the european union will have gained a great deal of influence in both countries which have already brought hopes of improvements in society as a whole through economic growth and better human, labour and environmental standards.
i think it is essential that guidelines be developed for countries to comply with with human rights, labour rights and environmental rights and i think that both governments should be expected to come forward with clear reforms to be introduced in a transparent manner before the entry into force of the agreement.
in this area it is important to monitor the sustainability of the european sectors affected by these agreements.
following the failed attempt to conclude an interregional association agreement in 2007, new negotiations were launched in january 2009, this time with colombia and peru only, and were successfully concluded in may 2010. although the agreement has an economic impact, resulting in significant economic benefits for both parties, it contains an implementing clause on human rights (article 1) and a title on sustainable development, which comprises the ilo's core labour standards, including freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining and multilateral environmental agreements.
− i consider it essential to eliminate high customs duties, tackle technical barriers to trade, liberalise services markets, protect valuable eu geographical indications (gis), open public procurement markets, include commitments to effectively enforce labour and environmental standards, and establish effective and rapid dispute resolution procedures, thus ensuring a level playing field with competitors in the region concerned, such as the united states.
this agreement, which is not only economic, also covers human rights, a title on sustainable development covering basic labour standards and bilateral environmental agreements.
due to this fact, i have presented, together with the rapporteur on the safeguards, bernd lange (s&d, de), a previous report to this consent recommendation, where we asked our partner countries for a road map on human and labour rights and environmental protection.
- i voted in favour of this trade agreement for the gradual elimination of customs duties, without forgetting the binding obligations of colombia and peru for the implementation of labour and environmental clauses.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
− the european commission has achieved the objectives of eliminating high customs duties, tackling technical barriers to trade, liberalising services markets, protecting valuable eu geographical indications (gis), opening public procurement markets, including commitments to effectively enforce labour and environmental standards, and providing effective and rapid dispute resolution procedures, thereby ensuring a level playing field with competitors in the region, such as the united states.
it also contains an enforcement clause on human rights and a title on sustainable development, which comprises the core labour standards of the international labour organisation (ilo) and multilateral environmental agreements.
− given the increasingly pressing challenges to citizens' health and well-being, a new long-term strategic approach is needed that promotes health, protects citizens and contributes to sustainability.
it is essential to promote solidarity and to combat health inequalities associated with socioeconomic and environmental factors.
promoting prosperity in order to ensure a competitive and sustainable future for europe, in particular with regard to the development of new ways of promoting health and predicting, preventing and treating disease.
the fundamental importance of primary health care, prevention and early diagnosis is underlined as they lead to improved physical and mental health, which allows to increase the average healthy life expectancy and to reduce the costs of health care, ensuring its long-term sustainability.
we stress the fundamental importance of primary health care, prevention and early diagnosis as we believe that they lead to improved physical and mental health of men and women, which allows to increase the average healthy life expectancy and reduce the costs of health care, ensuring its long-term sustainability.
we denounce here this fundamental contradiction of the ep: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment as a whole.
it called for increased support for countries, particularly those already facing economic recession, to invest in domestic production and its diversification, in maintaining and creating jobs (with rights), in infrastructure (in particular in the productive sector), in social facilities, in research, in the environment, in innovation and in development.
it called for increased support for countries, particularly those already facing economic recession, to invest in domestic production and its diversification, in maintaining and creating jobs (with rights), in infrastructure (in particular in the productive sector), in social facilities, in research, in the environment, in innovation and in development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- i approve this report, since it has been shown that there is a link between redundancies and the world economic and financial crisis, and since the two-wheeler industry in europe is facing an unfavourable environment also due to the growth in exports of bicycles and motorcycles by producers in asia, currently the world's largest producer.
i would like to highlight the additional measures taken by the swedish authorities to ensure that the training programmes, which are targeting over 3,000 workers, meet the future needs of the region in terms of skills and qualifications and by focusing on growing sectors such as the renewable energy sector.
reiterates that egf assistance cannot be used to relieve undertakings of obligations under the law and collective agreements, or to finance restructuring measures in undertakings or sectors; reiterates that the egf cannot be used to encourage the substitution of precarious work for permanent employment contracts, that egf assistance can only co-finance active labour market measures leading to sustainable and long-term employment.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that existing noise measures at airports in the union should be updated so that local authorities can improve the noise environment around airports, within the international framework of the icao's balanced approach to noise management.
− the proposal aims to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around union airports, within the framework of the icao's international balanced approach to noise management.
the proposal covers both the operating restrictions on noise emissions and the requirements inherent in the process (mapping, cost-effectiveness assessment and consultation) and transposes international commitments into european law.
the aim of this regulation is to update the existing measures in order to improve the noise environment of those living near an airport.
there are people complaining about chemical and noise pollution, especially from night flights.
the report also mentions cost-effectiveness as an aspect to be taken into account in the assessment of noise pollution at airports, weighing the economic benefits and the impact on people's health and quality of life, including a new concept of the overall efficiency of operating restrictions.
− the purpose of this proposal is to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around union airports, within the framework of the icao's international balanced approach to noise management.
the economic benefits and the impact on the health and quality of life of people living in the vicinity of airports should also be considered when assessing noise pollution at eu airports.
the commission proposal aims to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around eu airports, within the framework of the icao international civil aviation organisation's international balanced approach to noise management.
i voted in favour of this report, which covers both the operating restrictions on noise emissions and the requirements inherent in the process (map making, cost-effectiveness assessment and consultation) and transposes international commitments into european law.
in the european union's development policies, as in trade, energy or global security policies, it is imperative that the european union's action be intelligently shaped by the fine lens of human rights and the promotion of democracy.
i would like to thank my colleagues from the various political groups who have been rapporteurs in the shadow of this report, and i would also like to thank in particular mychelle rieu and levente csaszi, as advisers on behalf of the green group and the secretariat, and the rapporteur, mrs cresson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the eu monopolies covet wealth and the status of energy supplier of russia, which is also a strategic opponent of the eu in the (re) division of spheres of influence.
today, russia's energy advantage is a source of pride in relation to its european neighbour, and the eu's democratic demands often do not seem to be a priority.
the eu monopolies covet the wealth and status of russia as an energy supplier, which is also a strategic opponent of the eu in the (re) division of spheres of influence.
the importance of the steel industry to the european economy requires the commission to take measures to ensure the security of energy supply and to avoid relocation outside the territory of the union.
- i approve this motion for a resolution, considering that the petitioners have strongly expressed their concerns regarding the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel plant in taranto, which have had and continue to have a significant, harmful and lasting impact on the health of the local population.
as regards the petition which gives rise to this proposal, its authors have strongly expressed their concern at the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel plant in taranto, italy, which have had and continue to have a significant, harmful and lasting impact on the health of the local population.
i believe that the ep should take a position urging the italian authorities to ensure, as a matter of urgency, the environmental rehabilitation of the polluted site of the steelworks for the sake of the environment, but also for the jobs involved.
the resolution under discussion, tabled by erminia mazzoni on behalf of the committee on petitions following a petition by an italian citizen, deals with the need for the european union to work towards developing a new steel industry which is sustainable and competitive.
from the 1980s to the 1990s, due to the increase in energy and raw material costs, this industry entered a crisis.
many companies have relocated to other regions, notably to the asian continent, and those that remain are struggling with financial problems that prevent them from modernising and being environmentally and financially sustainable.
the case reported in the report of the ilva steel plant in taranto, italy, perfectly reflects the problems mentioned above: decapitalization, privatization, environmental pollution, closure and unemployment.
- this resolution is based on a petition received expressing concern about the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel plant in taranto, italy.
the resolution states that the precarious and dangerous condition of the factory has caused "critical environmental degradation and damage" as well as serious economic and social problems in southern italy.
it also stressed that the privatisation of the steelworks had not led to any improvement in environmental or worker safety and that it was essential to prevent further relocations of steelworks and steel production units, ensuring 'the safety of the workforce'.
the resolution calls on the italian authorities to ensure the environmental rehabilitation of the site polluted by the plant, which we believe is the right thing to do.
the commission and the council should seek to work together with all stakeholders to ensure that this policy achieves a coherent link between economic objectives and social and environmental priorities in order to build a modern, competitive and sustainable european steel industry in full compliance with eu environmental legislation.
− in this resolution, which i vote for, the european parliament calls on the commission and the council to work together with all the parties concerned to ensure that the union's industrial policy achieves a coherent link between economic objectives and social and environmental priorities, in order to build a modern, competitive and sustainable european steel industry, in full compliance with eu environmental legislation.
- this resolution follows a petition received expressing concern about the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel plant in taranto, italy.
the resolution condemns the precarious and dangerous condition of the factory as having caused "critical environmental degradation and damage" as well as serious economic and social problems in southern italy.
it added that the privatisation of the steelworks had not led to any improvement in environmental or worker safety and that it was essential to prevent further relocations of steelworks and steel production units, ensuring 'the safety of the workforce'.
the resolution calls on the italian authorities to ensure the environmental rehabilitation of the site polluted by the plant, which we believe is the right thing to do.