madam prime minister, all your ambitious and courageous goals, which i applaud, will remain waste and irrelevant if we do not punish the undemocratic excesses in hungary, bulgaria and romania.
i appreciate that the issues addressed by the danish presidency are vital for the future of the union as a whole: economic recovery and budgetary discipline, energy efficiency and job creation in a competitive economy, a secure and strong europe are all topics that can revitalise the european project.
progress in european integration cannot be halted by the problems that remain, and the ambitious programme of the danish presidency is a strong signal in this respect: europe must continue to focus on expanding the single market and promoting sustainable growth.
i call on the danish eu presidency to defend the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers and to give due consideration to the development needs of the new member states in the negotiations for the adoption of the multiannual financial framework and the rules on the trans-european transport, energy and communications networks.
i would remind you that measures to ensure growth and competitiveness are indispensable to ensure a genuine and sustainable economic recovery.
at the durban conference, the union presented a clear agenda for reducing emissions, and this was on the table throughout the conference.
no post-kyoto agreement was signed, the kyoto protocol was extended and a roadmap was set for 2015. the objectives of the 'durban platform', such as climate-friendly growth and poverty reduction, are however rather ambiguous.
how will the industry be treated in the fight against climate change?
unfortunately, there is still no common analytical formula for determining emissions and the amount of emissions from air transport is not included.
energy efficiency was also discussed in durban.
this allows us to make similar estimates for energy efficiency.
by cop xviii, the itre and envi committees, together with the commission, must make concrete proposals for reducing emissions.
waste electrical and electronic equipment is one of the fastest growing sources of household waste and also one of the most hazardous.
most of this waste is not properly managed and ends up in landfills, releasing toxic chemicals into the environment.
waste electrical and electronic equipment is the waste with the fastest growing potential in the union, with estimates for 2020 reaching 12,3 million tonnes.
i welcome the reform of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive and stress the need for investment in the recycling of raw materials and rare earths, as mining, refining and recycling of rare earths have serious environmental consequences if not properly managed.
the treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment without proper procedures causes environmental damage, in particular by the release of heavy metals such as mercury from compact fluorescent lamps and flat screens and lead from televisions.
according to the commission, only 33% of waste electrical and electronic equipment is officially separately collected, and it is possible that a large part of this waste, collected and undeclared, is treated in the union without adequate environmental protection or illegally shipped to developing countries, where certain valuable materials are recycled in a way that is hazardous to health and the environment or thrown away.
i support two important elements of the directive: extending the responsibility of the producer for the management of weee that protects the environment, with a view to increasing resource efficiency and creating green jobs;providing for the creation of reception areas for small appliances in large shops, without the obligation to buy new ones in return, in order to support citizens and local authorities and encourage them to participate actively in collecting the necessary quantities required by the directive.
the new european rules on biocides aim to tighten controls on their impact on health and the environment, while simplifying the product authorisation procedure.
the annual production of food waste in the 27 member states is estimated at about 179 kilograms per capita.
the issue of food waste should be addressed from a resource efficiency perspective and we call on the commission to launch specific initiatives addressing food waste within the framework of the 'a resource efficient europe' initiative to give it the same attention and awareness as energy efficiency, both being equally important for the environment and for ... (the president withdrew the speaker).
saving food also means saving water, energy, labor costs; not least, it is a good answer to the problem of land scarcity, which has been so much discussed lately.
i would like to welcome mr caronna's report, in a context where there is an increasingly heated debate on food security and sustainable agriculture.
worldwide, enough food is produced to satisfy all the world's food needs, but the problem is unequal distribution and waste.
while people in africa are starving, according to a fao study in europe, european and north american citizens waste between 95 and 115 kilograms of food per capita each year.
i therefore ask the commission to promote public awareness campaigns on food waste and to encourage farmers and economic operators to take action against the waste of agricultural products both on the field and in the food chain.
this ensures the success of waste management programmes.
the national campaign 'the great clearing' was also launched in 2007. it has collected several thousand tons of waste every year.
i believe that we need to promote quality agriculture, coupled with rational consumption, and avoid waste.
i also support the designation of 2013 as the european year against food waste, in order to raise public awareness.
eu accession to this unece regulation makes it possible to apply the same standards in many countries, eliminating red tape, improving road safety, environmental protection and trade, and helping to maintain the international competitiveness of european industry.
cooperation in areas such as aviation safety, aviation security, air traffic management and environmental protection should be further developed.
the international civil aviation organization regulates policies in the areas of safety, security, environment and air traffic management.
subsequently, provisions in the field of aviation security, air traffic management and environmental protection previously adopted by the council will be included in the annexes to the memorandum.
− i voted for parliament's position on the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee) as the directive supports the efficient use of resources and the recovery of valuable secondary raw materials.
for weee from private households, member states shall ensure that systems are in place to allow for the free handing over of such waste.
− i supported the agreement at second reading on the regulation setting the conditions under which biocidal products may be placed on the market because, despite rather difficult negotiations, a satisfactory result was reached in terms of both the competitiveness of the industry and the protection of the users of these products and the environment.
this will also encourage innovation in the field, encouraging the introduction of new products that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment and users.
farmers need support to improve agronomic and environmental performance to meet new climate, ecological and economic challenges.
i believe that the new cap policy should include specific support measures to encourage the streamlining of agronomic practices and the improved and sustainable management of agricultural resources in order to produce stable and productive agriculture, reduce production costs and nutrient losses and increase innovation, resource efficiency and efficiency and sustainability in agricultural production systems.
the commission should inform farmers and consumers of the need for more efficient management of energy, water and natural resources throughout the food chain in order to significantly reduce resource and food waste.
− i believe that food waste has become a widespread phenomenon in the eu, but has not received the attention it deserves.
in the medium term, however, i believe that 2014 should be designated as the 'european year against food waste'.
in order to stimulate sustainable production systems, farmers need to be compensated for the investments and commitments they make in these areas.
the institutions and companies involved in the project benefit from the advantages of the european space infrastructure, contributing to increased safety and comfort in traffic with a reduced impact on the environment.
esa's space systems enable the development of space applications for agriculture, the environment, transport, disaster measurement and telemedicine.
space solutions relying on cutting-edge technologies and a competitive european industrial base are indispensable for addressing current societal challenges such as natural disasters, monitoring of resources and climate, developing the telecommunications sector and promoting relevant applications in the fields of climate change policy, urban planning, environmental management, agriculture, maritime safety, fisheries and transport.
as gmes is a key tool in combating climate change and environmental degradation, we recommend funding gmes under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework.
− food waste has become so widespread in recent years that it can be considered a global problem, which unfortunately has serious repercussions on the food supply chain.
the causes of food waste are diverse, ranging from losses during harvesting and storage, to unsafe transport, to labelling errors and poor habits of the final consumer when buying and using food.
i believe it is essential to reduce food waste throughout the food chain by adopting a coordinated strategy followed by concrete actions.
the exchange of good practices is also needed at both european and national level in order to improve coordination between member states to avoid food waste and to increase the efficiency of the food supply chain.
combating food waste must become a priority on the european political agenda.
− with almost 80 million people in the eu living below the poverty line and more than half of the food waste in european households and along the food supply chain could be avoided, i believe that the adoption of this report is an important step towards increasing access to food for the poorest of europeans.
i also supported this report because it addresses the environmental and ethical issues, but also the economic and social costs of food waste.
− i voted for the report on avoiding food waste: strategies to make the eu food chain more efficient, as each year in europe around 50% of the amount of healthy and edible food is lost along the food chain, becoming waste.
we call on the council, the commission, the member states and the actors in the food supply chain to address food waste throughout the supply and consumption chain as soon as possible and to develop guidelines and support to increase the efficiency of the food supply chain in each sector.
food waste has various causes: overproduction, misdirection of products (inappropriate size or shape), damage to products or packaging, marketing rules (looking problems or packaging defects) or improper stock management and marketing strategies.
we invite the commission to assess the impact of a coercive food waste policy targeting all parties involved in the food chain, by applying the 'polluter pays' principle.
we ask the commission to set specific food waste prevention targets for member states, as part of the waste prevention targets to be met by member states by 2014, as recommended by the 2008 waste framework directive.
we need discipline, structural change, employment and sustainable growth.
the political developments at the european council in december 2011 reconfirmed the priorities in the process of consolidating the eu, namely the resumption of sustainable economic growth and job creation.
a number of colleagues also raised the issue of the third energy package.
i believe that the european union and brazil can and should work together much more intensively, inter alia, in increasing trade, especially following the joint action plan until 2014, and in particular in taking a leading role in international forums on issues such as climate change, economic governance and, not least, human rights.
i appreciate the role of the european investment bank, which has allocated 1 billion euros through the renewable energy and energy security facility to the implementation of energy projects in india.
the partnership with the brics economies is the basis for sustainable development for the union.
at the same time, dialogue fora should include issues such as combating climate change or access to rare earths.
my fellow commissioners also spend a great deal of energy on developing those strong links on some of the issues that honourable members have raised, whether it is climate change or development, education or other areas of work.
so, although the engagement may change and may not be in the way that it used to be, it is about engaging with them to provide support, for example with climate change, energy and some of the key areas of work where the commission has played such a vital role and will continue to do in the future.
transnational challenges such as climate change, global regulatory issues, access to raw materials and rare earth elements, terrorism, sustainable development, political stability and global security will require an approach based on shared values, consensus, consultation and close cooperation with the new emerging powers.
sport can make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives set out in the european commission's europe 2020 strategy for rapid, sustainable and constant development.
this resolution lists 115 cases of citizens from 14 member states complaining of violations of the waste management directive.
this situation is a grave sign of the failure of many national governments to enforce this vital legislation to protect the environment and the health of our citizens.
but the situation of waste from mining activities is also of concern.
the commission assures us that the mining waste directive contains sufficient environmental protection provisions, including those concerning cyanide mining.
but i would ask the commission to answer the following question: what will happen if the mining waste directive is to have the same scope as the waste management directive?
petitions to the european parliament point to cases of non-compliance with union legislation on environmental impact assessment and public consultation, as well as citizens' concerns about the risk of pollution in the waste management process.
in most member states, major investments are required to put in place waste management strategies, infrastructure and appropriate facilities.
i ask the commission to support the member states in the process of implementing european legislation, through appropriate funding mechanisms and clear and precise guidelines and criteria for the location of the deposits in relation to homes, schools, local health centres and drinking water sources, in order to provide stronger safeguards against possible risks to human health and the environment.
i encourage member states to support more local and regional authorities to implement optimal waste management models.
given that waste and pollution represent serious threats with direct repercussions on human health and the integrity of the environment, i believe it is the duty of all member states to accelerate the introduction of appropriate and advanced waste management strategies, in accordance with the current directive.
we all know that in most member states major investments are needed to put in place waste management strategies, infrastructure and facilities.
the eu waste industry is a public burden, often taken over by private interests and multinational companies, which treat 60% of household waste and 75% of waste produced by companies, with an annual turnover of eur 75 billion.
analysis of waste policies in the eu member states reveals significant differences.
some member states, including romania, are lagging behind in implementing waste management strategies and, in this context, the historical legacy and over-reliance on landfills, together with an attitude towards landfilling that should be changed, have contributed to the emergence of many serious breaches of eu legislation.
article 4 of the new waste framework directive mandates a waste hierarchy: prevention, preparation for re-use, recycling or other forms of re-use - including energy production and safe incineration - leaving landfills in last place.
calls on member states facing a clear waste crisis to take into account that a number of more efficient waste management strategies offer opportunities for job creation and income growth, while ensuring environmental sustainability through reuse, recycling and waste-to-energy.
improving access to energy services contributes to the quality of life of the population.
in this regard, access to energy should become a priority in the debate on poverty eradication.
i would point out that the difficult access to modern energy services puts women and children at a particular disadvantage.
i support the idea of creating a specific programme on energy and development at european level.
i would stress the importance of financing projects in the field of renewable electricity sources.
for example, in romania, green energy producers are set to receive €300 million in green certificates this year.
improving access to energy requires an estimated annual investment of usd 48 billion by 2030, equivalent to 3% of the global investment in energy infrastructure projected by 2030. i believe that access to modern and sustainable energy services for all is a prerequisite for achieving the millennium development goals, and i support the inclusion of universal access to energy in these goals from 2015. at the rio+20 summit, the union should propose concrete targets for the eradication of energy poverty and a roadmap for their achievement.
through it the parliament is adding its voice to the numerous petitions sent by citizens from all over europe to call on member states to properly transpose the waste framework directive.
it has become clear that the management of waste disposal is posing a political and social problem in many member states and the european commission has a fundamental role in controlling and guiding them to ensure the proper enforcement of the eu waste acquis at national level and raise greater environmental awareness among citizens.
this is the right time to stop saying waste is an issue and turn it into an opportunity for job and business creation because efficient waste management strategies can provide enormous opportunities for both employment creation and revenue enhancement while ensuring environmental sustainability.
i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr iturgaiz in the context of the intensification of discussions on waste recycling.
i would point out that the new member states are the last in recycling, although they produce less waste than the european average.
romania is among the countries targeted by petitions in the field of waste management.
to meet eu standards, my country is currently implementing the integrated waste management system.
by 2015, it will lead to the closure of non-green waste dumps and the development of recyclable waste sorting stations.
the current ramps pose a heightened risk to both the environment and the human communities in their vicinity.
− as the european union is one of the main actors interested in strengthening international institutions and building new international regimes addressing areas such as climate change or trade in goods, it is important that the union takes the first step towards building a new global system of governance by approaching relations with the rising powers in a constructive and pragmatic manner.
− i voted for the report on the eu's external policy towards the brics and other emerging powers, as the eu needs to work towards a better link between its foreign and security policy and eu sectoral policies such as development, energy security, trade, access to raw materials and rare earth elements, climate change and migration.
the resolution highlights: the importance of brazil as the main power in the regional integration process represented by mercosur and the eu-brazil strategic partnership; the key role of the eu-russia strategic partnership in maintaining peace and security in europe, in enhancing trade and economic development, in maintaining energy security; the importance of the eu-india strategic partnership; the importance of china as a major economic power and its key role in the global economic recovery.
to counteract the effects of this phenomenon on the labour market, i believe that effective public and private management is needed, a vibrant partnership between the two areas, so as to ensure a favourable environment for investment and a better use of the structural and cohesion funds.
reducing the sugar has no effect on the energy content of the product as the sugar will be replaced by other carbohydrates and therefore the calorie count will remain the same.
• i believe that commitments on budgetary discipline will bring the fiscal stability needed for a sustainable economic recovery.
− i voted in favour of parliament's resolution of 2 february on the european council of 30 january 2012, in which parliament takes note of the final text of the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union and insists on the need for concrete measures to restore the economy, boost sustainable growth and employment.
the treaty incorporates changes previously requested by parliament, such as: a commitment to fully apply the community method and that stability, coordination and governance will be achieved through secondary legislation with full involvement of parliament; recognition of the rights of signatory parties whose currency is not the euro to participate in euro area meetings on competitiveness, the general structure of the euro area and the basic rules to be applied in the future; the addition of a reference to the objectives of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion; a commitment to incorporate the content of the agreement into the eu legislative framework within five years.
parliament stressed that measures to strengthen solidarity and stimulate sustainable growth and employment were necessary for economic recovery.
the international atomic energy agency's mission to clarify the "grey areas" of iran's nuclear programme ended on tuesday with no apparent progress.
however, sustainable sport funding is an issue that needs to be examined in more detail.
− the eu's waste policy has evolved over the last 30 years through a series of environmental action plans and a legislative framework that aims to reduce negative environmental and health impacts and create a resource and energy efficient economy.
in some member states, recycling and recovery are the main waste management options, with landfilling being reduced to negligible amounts, while other member states still use landfills for the majority of their waste.
if member states recycled 70% of their waste, they could create at least half a million new jobs across europe.
− as the european parliament has received numerous petitions concerning possible violations of the european waste management directive, i voted in favour of this resolution calling for the implementation of waste management strategies in each member state and for the european commission to monitor compliance with the provisions on sorting and recycling.
i also believe that the benefits of proper waste management for both the environment and public health should be promoted among the population.
− an unsatisfactory level of waste recycling affects the health of european citizens, the health of the environment, but also has negative effects on the economies of the member states.
at union level, improving waste recovery and recycling could bring savings of €72 billion per year, increase the turnover of the european waste management and recycling sector by €42 billion per year and, not least, create over 400 000 jobs by 2020. this last point is in line with the eu's 2020 strategy objectives of creating new jobs at member state level.
i therefore believe that member states should make efforts to accelerate the introduction of waste management strategies in line with the cdd.
− the numerous petitions sent to the european parliament recently indicate that more and more local communities are concerned that waste management is becoming a major political and social issue.
the waste industry in the european union is a public burden, often taken over by private interests and multinational companies, which treat 60% of household waste and 75% of waste produced by companies, with an annual turnover of eur 75 billion.
this is why the european commission must propose clearer and more specific criteria for the location of ecological landfills and their proximity to homes, schools or hospitals.
i supported the rapporteur's position precisely because of the measures to combat the infiltration of the waste management system by organised crime and to prevent any links between organised crime organisations and the waste industry or public authorities.
another important proposal in the report is that after the waste processing funds have been allocated to companies, local and/or national authorities should put in place effective financial monitoring of the use of these funds.
− i urge the commission and the member states to promote greater public awareness of the environmental benefits of efficient waste management, in particular by providing information on the importance of separate collection, the real cost of household waste collection and, in parallel, the financial return on the recovery of this household waste, while at the same time achieving the objectives of the roadmap for a resource efficient europe and the greenhouse gas reduction targets.
i believe that close cooperation between member state authorities and the ep technical committees (petitions, environment) in addressing citizens' direct concerns at local level would provide an excellent opportunity to facilitate dialogue between the responsible authorities and local communities on the priorities for implementing waste management strategies and could, where it proves useful, be an effective way of resolving local disputes and taking effective action to combat any infiltration of organised crime into waste management and any links of organised crime with this sector or with public authorities.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the issues raised by the petitioners in relation to the implementation of the waste management directive and related directives in the member states of the european union.
between 2004 and 2010, 114 petitions were sent to parliament, pointing to possible breaches of the waste management regulatory framework, from the following member states: the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for the future of the european union, including a number of proposals for the future of the european union.
according to a study carried out for the commission, about 2.6 billion tonnes of waste are generated each year in the eu, or about 6 tonnes of waste per capita, and about 90 million tonnes of waste are classified as hazardous.
the same study highlights that many member states do not have sufficient capacity to prepare waste management plans, nor to carry out the inspections, controls and other actions necessary for the proper implementation of waste legislation.
the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to ensure both the design and implementation of comprehensive waste management plans, including the adoption of all the objectives set by specific european legislation, and solutions for the necessary funding.
− i voted for the report because i believe that access to energy for all must be a central point in the global discussion and action to eradicate poverty.
if we want to make real progress on this, we need to have 3% of global investment in energy infrastructure by 2030. on the other hand, we have to make sure that the people really benefit from the subsidies that are being offered, like fossil fuel subsidies.
− access to modern energy services for the population is a basic condition for poverty reduction and sustainable development.
yet, according to the 2011 world statistics, published by the international energy agency, some 1.3 billion people do not have access to electricity.
given that energy services have a direct impact on all aspects of people's lives and livelihoods, i believe that the importance of access to energy requires much greater attention from the international community and that policies for development need to be aligned with this objective.
at the same time, the european union should create within the framework of eu development cooperation a specific programme on 'energy and development' with the main objective of facilitating universal access to energy.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on eu development cooperation in support of the goal of universal access to energy by 2030 because i believe that lack of access to energy services does not provide conditions for a decent life and particularly affects women and children.
in the least developed countries, only a minority of the population has access to the electricity grid, and small-scale, decentralized energy solutions are the only viable way to ensure universal access to energy in the years ahead.
renewable energy sources, and in particular small-scale decentralised solutions, have huge potential for providing reliable, sustainable and affordable energy services to the poor, especially in rural areas of developing countries.
the resolution urges the commission and the member states to endorse and commit to support the international (un) target of universal access to energy by 2030 and to align their policies and development cooperation with this target.
it also encourages the commission and the member states to support, through development cooperation and appropriate financial instruments, the transfer of technologies, including technical knowledge, information and good practices, appropriate for the provision of modern energy services to the poor.
• i encourage the commission to actively monitor competition in the energy sector.
competition should be encouraged in particular in the energy, credit rating agencies and banking sectors.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the annual report on eu competition policy because i believe that the following measures are needed at european level: completion of the internal market for all modes of transport; achievement of an open and competitive single energy market; improvement of price transparency and increased competition in the roaming market; increased consumer information and protection.
we ask the commission to monitor the level of competition in the energy sector and to provide guidance to improve access to the energy grid for energy from renewable sources.
it offers concrete benefits for the business environment and creates the conditions for connecting with other eu countries.
particular attention should be paid to such procedures as effective automatic data transfers between registers, as provided for in the amended recital 15. overall, the new directive has the potential to enhance competition, in parallel with trust, by building confidence in the business environment of the internal market.
at present there is a climate of legal uncertainty for rights-holders, for users and especially for broadcasters, who – for instance – experience legal uncertainty as to which licensing regime would apply to their services.
protection of intellectual property rights (ipr) is therefore beneficial for the business environment, innovators and consumers, and those involved in cultural creations.
i believe that it is important that all consumers are constantly informed about the effects and dangers of counterfeiting and piracy and that coordinated and sustainable action is needed to combat ipr infringement in full respect of fundamental human rights and freedoms.
the objectives of the directive proposed by the european commission are: to increase confidence in the single market by creating a safer business environment for consumers, creditors and other trading partners; to boost the competitiveness of european businesses by reducing administrative burdens and providing greater legal certainty; to improve the functioning of public administration by promoting cooperation between european trade registers in the field of cross-border mergers, transfers of head offices and updating of the registration of foreign branches, procedures for which there are currently no or insufficient cooperation mechanisms.
in these circumstances, it is necessary to continue supporting the promotion of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in guinea-bissau.
i also think that we need to show solidarity with morocco, given the fragile political situation in that region, but we must not forget that intensifying agriculture in that country will lead to an overuse of water resources and could also cause serious environmental problems.
the commission proposal for a decision of september 2010 establishing the first radio spectrum policy programme sets out policy guidelines and objectives for the strategic planning and harmonisation of the use of radio spectrum by 2015. the radio spectrum policy programme reflects the importance of the availability and efficient use of spectrum for the internal market for electronic communications and for other eu policy areas such as transport, research, earth observation, satellite navigation systems, environmental protection and combating global warming.
• europe must have a firm and coherent common position on sustainable development.
we call on the member states to invest as a priority in transport, energy and communications infrastructure, research and innovation, education and health, agricultural development and, in particular, the development of european industry.
at european level, initiatives that facilitate the development of sectors with the highest job potential should be supported, in particular in the transition to a sustainable economy (green jobs), social and health services (white jobs) and the digital economy.
• the eu needs a sustainable economy that creates jobs.
the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth proposed by the commission sets five main objectives to guide the action of member states, including the european employment strategy.
we cannot talk about sustainable economic growth without also considering sustainable job creation.
the union needs a programme covering the internal market in all union policy areas involving the use of radio spectrum, such as policies on electronic communications, research, technological development, space, transport, energy and audiovisual.
the increase in the price of raw materials in recent years has led to higher feed costs and production costs, including energy.
but stability bonds can play an important role in the internal implementation and overall assertiveness of the euro area's monetary policy only if there is a sustainable fiscal framework based on growth, and not in the fragile context of the past two years, marked by speculative attacks, instability and poor economic governance.
in order to reduce economic imbalances and achieve sustainable economic growth, it is vital that member states encourage investment for job creation.
i welcome the promotion of active inclusion policies which create sustainable job creation and job quality, and the need to coordinate budgetary growth with employment measures so as to generate long-term economic recovery.
i voted to support sustainable job creation through investment and tax reform, to improve the quality of jobs and conditions for increased participation in the labour market, to combat youth unemployment, to combat poverty and social exclusion and to strengthen democratic legitimacy, accountability and accountability.
- i voted in favour of mr gauzès' report because the eu needs viable solutions to ensure the sustainable success of the european economy.
• they will promote sustainable economic growth and job creation.
high energy prices and persistent difficulties in accessing finance are also adversely affecting the recovery process.
member states' and the eu's efforts need to focus on the following priorities: pursuing growth-friendly differentiated fiscal consolidation while ensuring economic recovery and job creation, securing the long-term financing of the real economy, promoting sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment, addressing unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, and modernising european public administration and services of general interest.
i cannot mention all the essential information gmes can provide for the environment, the protection of biodiversity, the state of the oceans, the understanding of the drivers of climate change, the response to natural disasters, prevention or development policy.
this information is needed by each public authority in the member states, and sometimes by the regions, to implement all these policies of repair, prevention or environmental protection.
gmes will provide information that will help to manage issues ranging from climate change to border surveillance, as i have just mentioned.
gmes provides crucial information for managing the environment sustainably, improving the protection of biodiversity, monitoring and forecasting the state of the oceans and the composition of the atmosphere, understanding the drivers and effects of climate change, addressing natural and man-made disasters, supporting development policies and enhancing the security of european citizens.
gmes applications and services include: monitoring air quality from space, monitoring the growth of toxic algae, preparing for disaster response based on space data, increasing the safety of shipping in the arctic, quantifying the solar energy received by the earth, satellite tracking of pirate ships, monitoring volcanic eruptions and their effects on air transport.
gmes should continue to be financed from the union budget in order to ensure its sustainable development and operation in the medium and long term.
this plan would be a very valuable indication for research and for the industrial environment in preparing technologies and products to facilitate the use of these services.
i would like to ask mr prodi if he is aware that the amount of solar energy received by the earth has been more accurately quantified by gmes?
gmes has shown that desert areas receive more solar energy in a day than all the energy consumed by mankind in a year.
this represents a huge potential, especially in the context of energy becoming a scarce resource.
the use of this energy could benefit the african continent in the first place.
− i voted in favour of this report because the union needs to maintain the biomass of western black stavrid at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation.
given that social, economic and environmental sustainability are important objectives of the common fisheries policy, i would stress that the main priority of this policy should be to establish a sustainable fisheries sector that ensures that future generations can continue to enjoy the benefits of fishing.
this will foster cooperation between regions to achieve common goals such as sustainable growth, encouraging investment through job creation and strengthening democracy.
− monitoring climate change and its impact on european countries, rapidly preventing security threats by collecting relevant information, providing data to underpin many economic and social policies of the european union and its member states are just some of the benefits of this important european programme.
the development of the programme is also important for the success of the europe 2020 strategy of the european union for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, significantly supporting the industrial component of this policy paper.
− the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme provides information to help us better understand how our planet can be changed and the means by which this is done.
mitigating climate change, addressing emergencies, ensuring better border control, improving security and alerting citizens if air quality deteriorates are activities that depend on accurate and timely information about our planet.
− i voted for the resolution on the future of the european earth monitoring programme (gmes) because this programme is a flagship eu space initiative and plays a key role in earth observation, being an essential tool for combating climate change and environmental degradation, for civil protection and security, sustainable development, mobility and crisis management.
the reality is that we do not have similar views in the european union on nuclear energy as part of national energy mixes, so we cannot at this moment have a common answer other than that of focusing on the safety of nuclear power.
another answer is the common energy market.
we should work on this, in order for governments to be able to invest in renewable energy resources that are environmentally sound, affordable and reliable.
even though we can accept nuclear power as part of our energy mix for a while, we will have to look to a different future.
as such, i support the idea of organising information campaigns for european citizens on the contribution of cooperatives to sustainable economic and social development.
in order to continue in the same direction and to steer the economy towards sustainable growth, i consider it important to adapt the fund.
by targeting aid to affected workers over a limited period of time, the egf contributes to reducing unemployment, enabling member states to emerge from the economic crisis and steering their economies towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
− the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives of building an open and inclusive society, capable of providing significant resources for the sustainable development of the european union in the medium and long term, cannot be achieved without addressing in a transversal way several gender equality issues facing societies in the member states.
another action needed is the creation of an enabling environment for women to participate in political life at all levels.
− i voted for the report on women in political decision-making quality and equality, because equal representation of women and men in political decision-making is an aspect of human rights, social justice, sustainable development and an essential requirement for the functioning of a democratic society.
the model of cooperative societies, especially in a period of economic crisis, represents a virtuous example for sustainable development, social and financial responsibility, a catalyst for workers’ rights and a very useful tool for tackling local and regional development.
while the eu's 21 million smes are a major asset for sustainable growth and job creation, the difficulty of accessing finance is a major obstacle preventing smes from launching new products, strengthening their infrastructure and hiring more workers.
lifelong learning and the development of a broader range of labour market-friendly skills) must be top priorities in order to achieve sustainable growth and prosperity objectives.
− the provision of accurate and relevant statistics is essential for sustainable and balanced regional development.
such details in areas such as demography, economy and environment play a key role in the decision-making process on regional development, in particular in the context of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy.
− i voted in favour of the european statistics report because, in my view, the provision of accurate and truly relevant statistics is essential both for sustainable and balanced regional development and for the development of european policies capable of responding effectively to economic, social and territorial realities at all levels: local, regional, national and european.
clearly, only precise, objective figures, unaffected by political entities, can underpin the measures that will underpin the eu's sustainable economic development.
precise data are a basis for detailed information and analysis in areas such as demography, economics and the environment and therefore play a key role in regional development decision-making.
we are helping to create a climate conducive to compromise, and we are encouraging the countries to find one.
we hope to open at least three new chapters concerning competition policy, energy, and foreign security and defence policy, and also to provisionally close some of those chapters.
let us be clear: 2012 will be a decisive year as we are getting ready to start, as soon as possible, negotiations on some of the core chapters, such as on fisheries, agriculture, food safety and environment.
greater importance should also be given to negotiations on chapters such as regional policy, the environment and economic and monetary policy.
the level of income of citizens has fallen considerably, while many others are facing the unfortunate situation of job loss, at a time when the signals coming from the economic environment are not necessarily encouraging and the process of creating new jobs does not seem to be accelerating.
− i voted in favour of the report on the european fisheries fund because i believe it is important to have a sustainable fisheries strategy and because any change to the regulation to facilitate the rapid implementation of programmes financed by european funds will have an immediate and real impact on the economies of the member states most affected by the crisis.
in the interests of consumers, but also of increasing the competitiveness of european agriculture, i support free trade, but only on condition that exporters from partner countries are obliged to respect the same high quality, environmental and food safety standards as european producers.
this principle must be taken into account when concluding any trade agreement and with regard to all aspects of european agricultural and environmental legislation.
i voted against amendment no 1 because i believe that economic recovery requires measures to strengthen solidarity and to stimulate sustainable growth and employment.
− i welcome the conclusion of the new trade agreement on the marketing of cocoa, which replaces the previous legislative framework dating back to 2001. the new agreement meets the imperatives of transparency in trade deals, creating the conditions for sustainable development and a fairer distribution of financial resources generated by transactions.
− i voted in favour of the european parliament consent to the international cocoa agreement 2010, because it defines improvements to the social and market sustainability of the cocoa production industry, establishing a fair balance between prices for consumers and producers.
in order for this market to sustain itself, efforts dedicated to environmental protection need to be maintained.
as the largest importer and consumer of cocoa, the union has an important share of responsibility for enhancing the sustainability of the cocoa-producing sector.
the 2010 agreement aims to create the conditions for a more economically, socially and environmentally sustainable and fairer global cocoa trade.
the agreement aims to bring more transparency and sustainability to a sector that provides livelihoods for 50 million people worldwide.
i welcome the progress made in modernising transport, energy and telecommunications networks.
i call on the government to do more to tackle structural unemployment and protect vulnerable groups, in particular through sustainable economic growth and the creation of a favourable business environment.
iceland, whose energy production is mostly from renewable sources, can make a valuable contribution to eu policies in this area, due to its experience in the field of renewable energy.
i believe that iceland's accession to the eu would significantly strengthen the union's prospects of playing a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic, contributing to multilateral governance and sustainable policy solutions in the region.
on the other hand, it would be desirable for the european union and the member states to speak the same language when it comes to key dimensions of relations with the russian federation, such as energy policies.
our support is therefore needed more than ever to establish a climate of tolerance and respect for religious freedom in nigeria.
i would have liked the high representative to present proposals for a more active contribution by the union to promoting a peaceful and stable climate in nigeria, had she been present.
of course, the european union must continue to lead the fight against climate change, and europe needs investment and job creation now more than ever.
citizens need jobs and therefore investments in environmental protection can be seen as a driver of development, and the roadmap you have proposed and which we support is an answer to this.
however, it must be borne in mind that member states' efforts to transition to a low-carbon economy are not similar, as the starting points are different and, by implication, the implementation efforts are different.
i welcome the budgetary planning of european funds to ensure that projects that lead to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are financed, but at the same time allow the infrastructure gap between member states to be reduced.
the commission also needs to review the allowance trading scheme, as the evolution of the carbon market is uncertain and influenced by a multitude of factors, and a balanced balance between set aside and the number of allowances for the post-2012 ets needs to be considered.
without a doubt, both member states and regions must contribute to the achievement of the low-carbon targets by 2050. however, we must be aware of the difficulty of achieving these objectives.
the report brought to our attention, in the transport section, the need for a cultural shift towards new and more sustainable modes of transport.
let's not forget that while 70 percent of the water we take from nature goes to agriculture, at the same time, we waste 30 percent of our food.
as with the related topics of biodiversity and climate change, we need an international forum to address this global issue.
i would like to draw attention in this connection to the benefits that would be gained from the wider use of gm plants which are also more cost-effective and can help farmers to take care of the environment, including by saving water.
deforestation, urbanisation, population growth and climate change are adding new, greater pressure on the availability and quality of safe and healthy water resources and generating higher risks of water-related extreme events, with poor populations being the most vulnerable and least able to adapt to these trends.
i believe that public health and environmental protection are priorities for any water management policy and that the protection of drinking water resources is fundamental to human health.
any veterinary measure we might take would need to be proportionate and sustainable.
i voted in favour of this report because i support the union's contribution to the continuity of the international climate treaties.
this ensures sustainable economic growth and a green energy strategy.
this is a way of highlighting the progress made by this group of countries in reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
i believe that environmental and climate issues should be given more weight in the debate on poverty eradication.
efficient water use is important not only for the environment but also for the economy.
in romania, water quality is one of the priority measures for the implementation of the community environmental acquis.
− the eu published in march the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy, applicable to all economic sectors.
detailed plans for each sector are currently being developed, the most recent being the energy outlook 2050. given that the evolution of demand and supply is difficult to estimate, the plan presents several scenarios, analysing the possible effects, challenges and opportunities generated by the modernisation of the energy system.
the price of electricity is expected to increase by 2030. that is why we need to invest in 'smart' electricity grids and improved technologies for energy generation, transmission and storage.
combined with the completion of the common energy market, these measures should ensure a decrease in prices in the long term.
the sustainability of the investments, the jobs generated and the reduction of the import dependency will offset the costs.
- i voted in favour of this report because the debate on greenhouse gas emissions is becoming increasingly important, not only from the point of view of global warming, but also because of our dependence on depleted resources.
there is an acute need for alternative energy sources, greener resources that are just as reliable.
europe is obliged to find innovative ways to promote economic growth without harming the environment, taking advantage of the eu 2020 strategy.
the 2010 data tells us that there was a 6% increase in carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere.
however, it is not to be ignored that europe is responsible for only 11% of global co2 emissions.
it's not an excuse, but the actions we're taking are not enough to stop the process of increasing co2 emissions.
- i voted against amendments nos 4, 23 and 24 to the report on the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050, as they called for the phase-out of nuclear energy.
i believe that the member states of the european union cannot afford to abandon this type of energy at the moment.
nuclear energy must continue to be part of a diverse energy mix so that the union's energy needs can be met.
− today's vote on the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 confirmed that the future will be about developing energy-efficient technologies, sustainable rural development and energy efficiency.
however, it should be borne in mind that the 20% energy efficiency target will be difficult to achieve by 2020. we must remain realistic and take account of the current financial and economic situation.
in addition, a reduction in nuclear power will lead to an increase in the use of fossil fuels and therefore in carbon dioxide emissions.
europe needs to take concrete steps: incentives for public and private investment focused on the design and development of sustainable technologies, the development of a smart electricity grid and the improvement of pan-european energy interconnections.
− achieving the union's carbon reduction targets of 80%-95% by 2050 can only be achieved through effectively coordinated community action with practical application at local level.
the conclusions of the durban climate change meeting and the position of third countries on the air carbon tax show little interest in rapid action and political commitment to reduce carbon emissions.
the development of low-carbon economies at local and regional level and investment in these areas contribute significantly to the creation of new jobs and to the competitiveness of regions.
waste management, energy efficiency of buildings and the creation of standardised infrastructure for electric and low-emission vehicles are priorities that can deliver immediate results at local level.
the future of sustainable investment will look at reducing dependence on external energy suppliers outside the eu.
the development of an integrated system of cross-border energy markets contributes to the energy balance between member states and strengthens domestic generation capacity.
− approximately 90 parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, including emerging economies, which together are responsible for more than 80% (eu-11%) of global emissions, have made unilateral declarations on quantified economy-wide emission reduction targets, even though they are not legally binding.
− we voted on the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050. i voted in favour of setting interim greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for 2030 and 2040, but i voted against requiring them to follow a linear trajectory, as these reductions involve medium- and long-term investment and the effect is not linear.
i voted for the introduction of a long-term target to reduce the energy consumption of the eu's building stock by 2050 and for continued support for investment in other forms of low-carbon energy production.
i voted against paragraph 24 (b) which calls for changing the annual linear reduction rate of 1.74%, set by the ets directive, to meet the requirements of the co2 reduction target by 2050. i voted for amendment no 10 which calls for assurances that none of the proposed measures will reduce the level of allowances for sectors that may be exposed to carbon leakage, as set out in decision 2011/278/eu.
i voted against amendment no 24, which eliminates the recognition of the contribution of nuclear energy to the current target of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020.
in writing.
according to data presented by the united nations environment programme, 884 million people lack access to clean water, and some 2.3 billion people lack even basic sanitation.
in view of the above, i believe that sustainable water use is not only an environmental but also an economic necessity and that greater transparency in water charging systems would be necessary.
− it is clear that we are moving towards water becoming a commodity, with all the consequences: income discrimination in access to water, instead of universal access, intensive use of resources at risk of depletion, intensive use of infrastructure, privatisation of distribution, insufficient investment the consequences of climate change can only be managed jointly and only at the level of states.
pollution is another problem that needs to be tackled by several countries together.
− water is particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change, which could lead to a decrease in the quantity and quality of available water, especially drinking water, as well as an increase in the frequency and magnitude of floods and droughts.
i voted for this motion to mobilise all actors to develop climate change mitigation and adaptation policies that take due account of the impact on water resources and respond to risks in terms of preventing water-related extremes.
− the quality of drinking water in the union is increasingly being affected by climate change, but also by human discharges of certain substances into the water.
i believe that the union must play an active role in ensuring that the world's water resources are managed efficiently, in compliance with public health and environmental protection rules.
water management has direct effects on human health, energy production, agriculture and food security, and effective water management is a fundamental prerequisite for poverty reduction.
climate change, deforestation, urbanisation, population growth, biological and chemical pollution are putting increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe and healthy water resources and generating higher risks of water-related extreme events, with poor populations being the most affected.
i call on the commission to develop climate change mitigation and adaptation policies that take due account of the impact on water resources.
the european union attaches the greatest importance to the principle of freedom of expression, and we support a vibrant and diverse palestinian media sector operating in a clearly-defined and secure regulatory environment, as provided for in the oslo accords.
i hope that the energy which i have sensed in your discussion will be turned towards supporting the two leaders who will be meeting tomorrow, addressing the core issues and allowing downer to recommend to the secretary-general to go for the finalisation of the process and not to leave it for a plan b – because i have news for you: there is no plan b.
last but not least, montenegro has an obligation to implement sustainable solutions to the problems of the 15 000 refugees on its territory.
the construction of a single market at european union level was not and is not possible without the existence of strong trading companies and their appropriate development in the light of the economic environment, which is very dynamic at european and international level.
we will be proposing rules on the transparency of non-financial information this autumn, as well as on the social and environmental commitment of companies, and i thank you and mrs regner for your support for the need for binding rules in certain areas.
there is also the great problem of radioactive waste management, which will occupy the attention of many generations from now.
this waste is also dangerous because it can be used as a weapon by terrorist groups.
we must act quickly to encourage sustainable industries and job creation.
i also want to congratulate them on the way they have thought about their strategy for 2011-13 and again welcome the fact that the future multiannual financial framework will also have the support of the european investment bank which i hope will play a much more important role in the coming period, both as a factor of economic recovery but, more than that, for the sustainable economic development of the european union.
i voted for this resolution because relations with turkey are of strategic importance in economic, energy, foreign and security policy.
i would point out that romania and turkey signed a strategic partnership in december 2011 based on the following priority areas: strengthening economic cooperation, energy, foreign security policy and the fight against terrorism.
the european business environment needs a clear and predictable legal framework.
i also welcome the eib's initiative to align with the eu's climate change objectives.
in 2010, the eib financed projects in romania totalling eur 410 million, with the main sectors targeted being energy and services.
another element to be taken into account is the environmental conditions, which have deteriorated considerably in the raw material harvesting areas.
− in the eu, excise duties apply to three categories of products: alcohol and alcoholic beverages, processed tobacco and energy products.
we welcome the significant progress made by serbia in aligning with the acquis in the field of environmental protection and call for further sustained efforts in this area, with a particular focus on enforcement.
we urge the authorities to step up their efforts, especially in water quality and waste disposal, and encourage serbia to adopt climate change targets that are in line with those of the eu.
with a spectacularly growing economy, which has tripled in size in the last decade, turkey is one of the most representative emerging powers, and its role in the middle east stability equation and in the eu's energy supply is becoming increasingly important.
the future of the european union depends on its capacity to be inclusive, open to intercultural dialogue and socially and economically sustainable.
i emphasise turkey's economic and development potential and its significant role in regional stability and energy security.
turkey is a major eu energy corridor for oil and gas resources in the caucasus and caspian sea, and the nabucco pipeline remains one of the eu's top energy security priorities.
turkey also has significant potential in renewable energy from solar, wind and geothermal sources.
we welcome the progress made by turkey in the field of renewable energy sources and support future efforts to increase the use of renewable energy sources in all sectors.
in view of the energy problems facing montenegro, we welcome the adoption of the government's energy policy plan until 2030. we call on the authorities to accelerate progress in the area of security of energy supply and energy efficiency and to continue their efforts to establish a regulatory framework that encourages the increasingly large-scale use of renewable energy sources in all sectors, in line with the relevant provisions of the eu renewable energy acquis.
eib financing operations within the eu focus on six priorities: ensuring economic and social cohesion and convergence, implementing the knowledge-based economy, developing trans-european transport and access networks, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), protecting and improving the environment, promoting sustainable communities and supporting sustainable, competitive and secure energy supply.
last night the argentinian government announced that it intends to expropriate the majority stake held by the spanish company repsol in the ypf energy company.
a takeover sends a very negative signal to international investors and could seriously harm the business environment in argentina.
while our interests in the black sea are broad, ranging from the environment, maritime affairs and fisheries to energy, transport, movement and security, we have focused our activities on the creation of the three sectoral partnerships in the fields of the environment, transport and energy.
in march 2010 we launched the environment partnership.
the 18 projects implemented after the first call for proposals cover the three priorities of the european union’s 2007-2013 black sea basin programme: supporting cross-border partnerships for economic and social development, sharing resources and competences for environmental protection and conservation, and supporting cultural and educational initiatives for the establishment of a common cultural environment in the basin.
in the environmental field, the black sea commission is an important player, and the european union hopes to be accepted as a full member soon.
despite some improvements in sectoral fields – environment, maritime and fisheries policy – one cannot speak of improvements in strategic fields such as security and energy.
the black sea region is of geostrategic importance, in particular for energy security and for the diversification of sources and routes of energy supply to the union, due to its proximity to the caspian sea, the middle east and central asia.
the strategic importance of the black sea region is undeniable in political, economic, energy, commercial, ecological, cultural, transport security, neighbourhood policy and external relations.
it must aim first and foremost at increasing stability and security, with a focus on resolving frozen conflicts, but also at exploiting the economic potential of the area, in particular by encouraging major energy projects.
i would like to mention that the black sea is an important axis for energy and transport as half of the oil and gas imports of european countries will transit through this region.
i am pointing out the need to promote energy partnerships even more.
it responds to a mutual interest in ensuring energy security by diversifying sources and transport routes.
i stress the importance of cooperation between the european union and azerbaijan for the diversification of sources and routes of energy supply to the european union.
we call on the union to provide technical assistance to azerbaijan for the use of renewable energy sources and the promotion of energy efficiency.
so it is not an end in itself to have more workers working abroad as opposed to in their home environment, but these opportunities must be exploited.
− the report on the role of cohesion policies in the outermost regions of the european union in the context of the europe 2020 strategy underlines the need for these regions to benefit from a differentiated approach in the eu cohesion policy and supports a tailoring of the application of european policies to priority sectors that can contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
to have smart, inclusive growth, we need to take into account the small size of these regions, the difficult climate and terrain, and the economic dependence on a small number of products.
- i voted in favour of the report by mr teixeira because i believe that we must focus on the balanced and sustainable development of all the regions of europe in accordance with the objectives of economic and social cohesion.
particular attention should be paid to strengthening the economic competitiveness of the regions by creating an environment favourable to the development of entrepreneurship and business enterprises.
− in view of the negotiations between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan for the conclusion of an association agreement, i believe that this association agreement should bring concrete benefits and opportunities to the azerbaijani people and the european union in promoting a sustainable economy and ensuring greater transparency in the energy sector and also guaranteeing that its development is in line with international environmental standards.
i believe that the commission's proposals and the amendments proposed in the report largely contribute to adapting this directive to the objectives which the union has set itself in the field of the environment and climate change, by means of taxation which favours energy products with the lowest possible impact on the environment.
and we're not going to have the environmental advantage, because there's an energy difference between gasoline and diesel.
the proposal for a directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity is undoubtedly ambitious from the point of view of environmental protection.
i agree that we need a substantial reduction in co2 emissions not only for the sake of environmental sustainability, but also for the health of european citizens.
increasing the levels of excise duties on energy products as well as on electricity could generate an increase in budget revenues.
unfortunately, this directive could do just that, as it could lead to higher energy, electricity and fuel prices.
the report adopted by the econ commission rejected itre's suggestion to reduce the high price of co2 emissions, and this will be felt in consumer prices.
the directive would impose a double additional tax burden on these persons: they would pay both direct taxes on energy and the cost of the inflation that the taxes would generate.
the proposed amendment to the directive on the restructuring of the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity introduces two components for the taxation of energy: taxation in relation to carbon dioxide emissions and taxation of general energy consumption.
the introduction of carbon taxation is the introduction of a carbon tax, which will affect both industry, households and european competitiveness.
i welcome the adoption of the amendments tabled, which call for electricity used for irrigation to be exempt from taxation and for electricity used to power electric and hybrid vehicles to be exempt from taxation by 1 january 2023. i consider that the setting of the carbon dioxide tax at eur 20/t is arbitrary.
this value should be set by the market, and not arbitrarily modified by the commission, just to make investments in renewable energy profitable.
i think that this automatic price indexation that has been avoided, the taxation based on co2 emissions and the energy content of the product was fundamentally wrong, introduced a certain bureaucracy, led to higher prices, which does not prove at all that there is a very clear vision of economic reform and economic revival in general.
− i voted in favour of concluding this agreement because i believe that it will contribute to promoting good forest governance and strengthening forest law in the central african republic, including from the perspective of sustainability, responsibility and good forest management.
i draw attention to the importance of the timely entry into force of the agreement in order to effectively contribute to increasing sustainability and halting the degradation of forests caused by illegal logging and trade in illegal timber products.
i welcome the efforts to transform the forestry sector into a sustainable and responsible one, as well as the direct involvement of both civil society and industry and forest-dwelling communities.
i believe that the voluntary partnership agreement with liberia will contribute positively to the development and economic growth of that country, while helping to combat forest degradation with its consequences on climate change.
this proposal promotes renewable energy sources, contributing to the european 20-20-20 strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
providing the necessary framework for carbon taxation would also lead to an increase in energy efficiency.
the proposal for a directive would also raise the minimum levels of excise duty on energy products and electricity.
− energy is a key element of any economy, with a major impact on all sectors.
the specific policies promoted in this field must ensure the development of a climate favourable to the promotion and exploitation of all available sources of energy, so as to mitigate the negative effects on this market.
the revised proposal for a directive adapts the structure of energy taxation to support the objective of a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy and to avoid problems in the internal market.
by introducing a co2-related element in energy taxation, the proposal aims to bring energy into line with eu commitments to combat climate change.
the european union's approach to the taxation of energy products and electricity is converging with a view to ensuring a tax framework that is as favourable as possible to achieving maximum efficiency in promoting the best possible use of energy products at the highest possible rates and, at the same time, reducing waste and unjustified consumption of these products.
− i consider this proposal to be an important contribution to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy on greenhouse gas emission reductions.
− i voted against this report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2003/96/ec restructuring the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, because i strongly believe that it will constitute a further and excessive burden on our citizens, who have already been heavily subjected to the dramatic effects of the economic and financial crisis.
the main effect of this taxation will be an increase in energy and electricity bills in all eu member states due to the imposition of a flat rate of tax in addition to other national taxes.
this is unacceptable, firstly because prices for energy and fuel have increased tremendously in recent years; secondly, because a flat rate of tax is discriminatory, since it does not take into account the socio-economic, structural and infrastructural differences between eu countries; lastly, because it greatly interferes with the domestic fiscal policies of the member states.
i believe that if environment protection is the goal of the eu, this should be achieved by proposing investments in renewable energies and infrastructures, not through a tax which will have to be paid by our citizens, and them alone.
− this draft council directive on the restructuring of the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity proposes to review the old rules on the taxation of energy products and electricity in the european union.
the new rules aim to restructure the way energy products are taxed, to eliminate current imbalances and to take into account both their co2 emissions and their energy content.
by taxing polluting products and services differently, without taking account of environmental rules, producers are encouraged to invest in research to develop more energy-efficient products and services.
- i voted in favour of the amendments to the report and welcome the decision adopted by the european parliament on the system of taxation of energy products and electricity in the european union.
- i voted against the amendment to the energy taxation directive because the proposal introduces two components for energy taxation: taxation in relation to carbon dioxide emissions and taxation of general energy consumption.
air transport is, as of 1 january 2012, included in the emissions trading scheme (ets) and the application of a new emission-based taxation would have been double taxation.
nuclear fusion offers the prospect of a nearly limitless source of clean energy.
i believe that by using the knowledge base provided by the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, the iter experimental nuclear fusion reactor under construction at cadarache in france can prepare the next generation of fusion reactors and europe can become a world leader in the construction of experimental fusion reactors.
it is important to secure the necessary financial resources and the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council in december 2011 provides for support for the additional costs of the iter project for the period 2012-2013. these amount to eur 1 300 million, of which eur 100 million is already included in the 2012 budget, eur 360 million is an commitment appropriation for 2013 and the ceilings for commitment appropriations under heading 1a will be increased by eur 840 million, of which eur 650 million in 2012 and eur 190 million in 2013. i support draft amending budget no 1 of 2012, which enters in the 2012 budget article 082002 euratom - european joint undertaking for iter, fusion for energy, the amount of eur 650 million in commitment appropriations, as this budgetary adjustment is fully in line with the agreement concluded in december 2011.
i welcome the agreement reached between the three european institutions on the financing of the additional costs of the iter project.
its results could also pave the way to a secure, affordable, carbon-free energy source.
i would like to stress the role played by local authorities in understanding the environment in which union delegations operate.
− in 2010, the european commission adopted the eu 2020 strategy which aims to create smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and improve economic governance.
the great challenge facing humanity today, climate change, is closely tied to equality.
one explanation is statistics that show that 70 percent of the world's poorest people are women, because they work primarily in agriculture, 85 percent of those who die from climate-related disasters are women, 75 percent of environmental refugees are women.
women are still the most likely unseen victims of resource wars and climate change violence.
these are some of the reasons why women are less able to adapt to climate change.
i believe that by addressing this issue, we are not launching a competition between gender equality and climate policies, but we need to find the most appropriate solutions to advance these areas simultaneously.
a better understanding of the gender dimension of climate change is essential to finding the best policy solutions to combat it.
in the midst of a very bleak picture for biodiversity in the european union, this report, fully supporting the eu 2020 biodiversity targets and actions proposed by the commission, has reinforced my conviction that the european parliament is a major driving force in restoring this alarming loss of resources.
but do the circumstances we are currently facing mean that we should protect biodiversity and the natura 2000 network with fewer resources?
the report suggests a number of promising ways forward, calling as it does for collaborative biodiversity protection and more efficient mobilisation of our available financial and human resources and for us to rise above outdated economic models and embrace new, greener ones.
just as collaborative consumption is revolutionising old market behaviour, collaborative biodiversity protection will reinvent the way in which all the actors involved take part in combating biodiversity loss, in ways and on a scale never witnessed before.
the biodiversity crisis can be addressed successfully through new approaches that promote the exchange of knowledge, technologies, data, innovative solutions and products, and by mobilising all the actors on the ground.
an in-depth review of how financial and human resources have thus far been allocated to biodiversity protection is paramount.
it calls for more efficient mobilisation of public and private funds as well as stressing the need to minimise the pressures on biodiversity.
but it also requires developing innovative partnerships with business, as is being achieved through the planned ‘no net loss’ initiative, and an increased use of instruments such as procedures for the valuation of, and payments for, ecosystem services.
the commission proposed a strengthened integrated approach, for example by using various eu structural funds together with an enhanced biodiversity strand of the life programme.
to conclude, we look forward to engaging with parliament in the implementation of the biodiversity strategy, and i thank you for all your efforts.
− the european natural heritage is an important ecological capital that contributes to the well-being of all citizens, which is why all eu countries must cooperate and coordinate their efforts to make better use of natural resources and limit the degradation of biodiversity.
when we talk about biodiversity, we must refer to both the extraordinary biodiversity, included in the parks and nature reserves, which are already protected or are in the process of being included in this list, and the ordinary biodiversity, also known as functional biodiversity.
on the other hand, conservation of basic natural resources, animal and plant genetic resources, the environment and the steering of agrotechnological processes are necessary to ensure that the requirements of future generations are met.
i believe that a balance between the european biodiversity strategy and the member states' rural development plans is essential to ensure the conservation of biodiversity.
agriculture is now faced with the challenge of producing more with less and less damage to the environment.
the biodiversity strategy report rightly notes the importance of this dual challenge.
the so-called greening of the cap is undoubtedly necessary and welcome, but the formula in which it has been proposed will lead to a reduction in the capacity of the agri-food sector to be more competitive and to enter a path of sustainable growth.
agriculture can make an important contribution to biodiversity conservation, but policies in this area must be chosen with particular regard to long-term food security.
biodiversity is in crisis in europe, with species disappearing at an unprecedented rate, leading to the degradation of ecosystems.
the annual costs of biodiversity loss run into billions for the global economy, undermining economies, business prospects and opportunities to fight poverty.
i stress the importance of integrating the protection and conservation of biodiversity into the development, implementation and financing of all other european policies, including those on agriculture, forestry, fisheries, development, regional cohesion, energy, industry, transport, tourism, development cooperation, research and innovation.
to make the union's sectoral and budgetary policies more coherent, ensure that they honour its binding commitments on the protection of biodiversity.
as you know, the commission is busy preparing the 7th environmental action programme (eap) for adoption before the end of this year.
i can say that many of the ideas which you mentioned in the introduction are ideas which we are considering for inclusion in the 7th environmental action programme.
eu environment policy has been consolidated under the 6th environmental action programme.
in the meantime, we have developed a number of new initiatives – including on climate, biodiversity and resource efficiency – which set objectives for 2020 and contribute to the europe 2020 strategy.
it should also look beyond 2020 and put in place the conditions necessary to secure a resource-efficient, low-carbon future in which natural capital is protected, valued and substantially restored.
ensuring all this will require more coherent policy-making and enhanced integration of the environment into other policies.
implementation failures are a major stumbling block to delivering the benefits we seek from environmental legislation.
they cost us around eur 50 billion per year, lead to distortions in the single market and make it more costly to tackle environmental challenges down the road.
i also agree that the 7th eap should focus on the contribution of environment policy to better health and wellbeing.
more needs to be done to tackle challenges arising from pollution that are not yet being adequately addressed.
i also fully agree with you that the urban environment is an important dimension of our policy.
the international dimension of environment policy also needs to feature prominently in the 7th eap, which will also need to reflect the outcome of rio+20 and provide for the timely implementation of eu international commitments under the unfccc.
we need global climate action consistent with the objective of keeping the global average temperature increase below 2° c compared to pre-industrial levels.
i also agree that the 7th eap should provide a framework for the transition to a low-carbon economy beyond our 2020 targets.
this work has already started with the 2020 low carbon roadmap, which sets out a pathway with milestones for a cost-effective, gradual transition and identifies essential enabling technologies and instruments.
environmental policy never acts alone, but reflects the interest of civil society as a whole, as evidenced by the existence of many environmental organisations.
on the other hand, there are industry reservations when environmental objectives may impose a number of limits on industrial competitiveness with effects on economic growth.
europe needs an active and integrated environmental policy that is able to respond to all the challenges it faces, including economic ones, but also better cooperation between regions and across borders, especially with non-eu countries.
pollution knows no borders and all actors in third countries need to be involved to protect nature, ecosystems and protected areas wherever they are located.
we are pleased to hear that the commission's initiative for the 7th environment action programme will be available in the second half of the year.
there is still a lot to be done in integrating environmental policies into all other union policies, including structural policies, and i believe that this must be our priority.
we need a coherent strategy, and this programme must sum up our vision for the environment.
environmental indicators need to be better linked to the realities at european level.
we need to act quickly on biodiversity, we need political will and the appropriate financial instruments, the eu 2020 biodiversity strategy must be fully integrated into the 7th action programme.
the current 6th environment action programme, the first programme adopted by codecision, thus enhancing its legitimacy and helping to create a sense of participation in future policy proposals, will end in july 2012. it provided a comprehensive environmental policy framework, in which environmental legislation was substantially strengthened and supplemented.
the 7th environment action programme should provide a comprehensive and coherent framework for strategic initiatives, setting out priority objectives and clearly showing how environmental policy can contribute to green growth, improved health and increased well-being.
in this context, i welcome the launch by the commission, from march to 1 june 2012, of a public consultation to gather views on the eu's 7th environment action programme.
it will set out the priority objectives to be pursued by 2020 to ensure better protection of the environment and to sustain our prosperity within the limits of the planet.
studies show that women are more vulnerable to the effects of climate change, especially in the case of migration caused by drought and water scarcity.
they may even account for 75% of all environmental refugees, but women should not be seen as victims, but rather as contributors to preventing global warming through more responsible behaviour and a central role in water management.
the latter was recognised at un level as part of the international decade 'water, the source of life' running until 2015. i encourage closer cooperation with the un to promote women's participation in environmental protection programmes.
i abstained on this report, which i find interesting only because it manages to take stock of the whole problem of climate change and its impact on women's lives, but in reality this report is just a trivial inventory of problems and it does not find any solutions to meet this challenge.
i voted for this report because we need to step up our efforts to protect biodiversity quickly.
i would point out that the eu strategy for the danube region includes the preservation of biodiversity in its fields of action under the priority axis of environmental protection.
i voted for this report because environmental and climate issues should be given more consideration in the quality of life debate.
a high level of protection is not only beneficial for the environment but also for the economy.
in this context, i would stress the importance of integrating environmental objectives into all union policies.
i would draw attention to the fact that the implementation of the environmental acquis is still insufficient.
the 7th action programme must set out concrete objectives to enable the transition to a sustainable future.
− i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 1/2012 of the european union for the financial year 2012, which provides for the entry in the 2012 budget of article 08 20 02 euratom european joint undertaking for iter fusion for energy, amounting to eur 650 million in commitment appropriations, as i believe it is important to secure the necessary sources of funding for one of the most important and promising projects of the european union.
under this agreement, the ceiling for heading 1a of the multiannual financial framework is increased by eur 840 million, of which eur 650 million in 2012 and eur 190 million in 2013. i believe that achieving the objectives of the iter project can ensure that european citizens have secure and clean energy in the future.
− universities play a crucial role in the knowledge triangle of education, research and innovation and should be seen as key elements in the sustainable socioeconomic development of europe.
i believe that a lasting solution in the region should aim at strengthening state institutions, promoting the active participation of citizens in decision-making and laying the foundation for sustainable and equitable economic development.
a better understanding of the gender dimension of climate change is essential to find the best solutions for policies to combat climate change, as well as for the inclusion of women in european climate diplomacy, with a minimum of 40% of women in the respective delegations.
by voting in favour of this report, i underline the importance of gender mainstreaming in the effective fight against climate change, because of the differentiated roles between men and women.
i voted in favour of this report because it also strongly encourages a gender-based approach and greater participation of women in policy-making on development, human rights and climate change.
− i voted for the report on women and climate change because including gender issues in the context of the fight against climate change provides an opportunity for it to become stronger, fairer and more effective.
i support the introduction of a mandatory 40% quota for women's representation in the delegations for the climate change negotiations.
we call on the commission and the member states to propose climate change mitigation programmes, including gender equality, to improve women's well-being, in particular in terms of access to information and services, natural resources and sustainable energy.
we invite the commission and the member states to support the development of renewable energy sources in developing countries through technology and knowledge exchange, ensuring the balanced participation of women, with the aim of contributing simultaneously to both equal opportunities and climate change mitigation.
women must be encouraged to train and pursue careers in the technology and science sectors, the environment sector, the energy sector, as this can provide women with secure jobs, a stable future and increase their involvement in climate change policy-making.
− biodiversity provides us with food and water, shelter and medicine, reduces the consequences of natural disasters and epidemics, regulates the climate and provides vital services that support the economy.
if we lose biodiversity, we risk losing wealth and jobs and we risk our future.
biodiversity loss is occurring at an unprecedented scale (100 to 1000 times the natural rate of species extinction), making it the most serious threat to the environment, alongside climate change.
i believe that there is a need for better cooperation at european level in the field of the diversity of animal and plant genetic resources in order to preserve them and improve their ability to adapt to climate change.
it is also necessary for member states and the european commission to support european citizens' initiatives to protect biodiversity and their engagement through the civic service for biodiversity and eco-volunteering, with a view to identifying models and good practices that can be subsequently applied at european level, and the need to carry out information and awareness-raising campaigns on biodiversity for all ages and social groups.
− recent studies have shown a steady loss of biodiversity in the european union, leading to devastating economic costs for society, costs that have not been sufficiently taken into account in economic and other eu policies.
a more efficient and coordinated use of funds provided by cohesion policy instruments, the framework programme for research and development, the life+ programme and the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) for projects related to environmental, biodiversity and climate protection is needed in the future, including, where appropriate, through the provision of additional technical assistance.
- i voted against the report on the european biodiversity strategy because i did not see the point of the article raising the issue of hunting in the danube delta on the assumption that it would have a negative impact on biodiversity.
for these reasons, although i consider the report an important step towards achieving the targets of the eu biodiversity strategy 2020, i could not vote in favour.
- i voted against parts of paragraphs 28, 58, 61, 70 because the ideas contained in these parts of the text are unrealistic and attempt to position agriculture as responsible for the reduction of biodiversity.
agriculture can make an important contribution to biodiversity conservation, but policies in this area must be chosen with particular regard to long-term food security.
− i voted for the report on an eu biodiversity strategy for 2020 because the environment and natural resources are a fundamental good for human well-being.
i stress the importance of integrating the protection and conservation of biodiversity into the development, implementation and financing of all other european policies - including energy, industry, transport, tourism, research and innovation - to make eu sectoral and budgetary policies more coherent.
i believe that member states should cooperate and coordinate their efforts to ensure a more efficient use of natural resources and to avoid losses in terms of biodiversity and ecosystem services in rural and urban areas.
i urge member states to design forestry policies that take full account of the importance of forests in protecting biodiversity, preventing soil erosion, sequestering carbon, purifying air and maintaining the water cycle.
− i voted for the report on the review of the sixth environmental action programme and setting priorities for the seventh environmental action programme - a better environment for a better life.
a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are essential preconditions for ensuring the quality of life and maintaining the stability of ecosystems.
for environmental policies to succeed, i stress the importance of involving and informing citizens about them.
i call for increased efforts in this regard in the next action programme, bearing in mind that a better environment for a better life cannot be created unilaterally by the institutions without the support of society as a whole.
i believe that the seventh environment action programme should reflect binding targets in the field of energy efficiency and/or energy savings, as these will contribute to combating global warming and protecting the environment.
the eu needs to invest in transport, energy, agriculture, education, health and, above all, research and innovation to ensure its international competitiveness.
limiting the impact of high roaming charges requires a shift from a monopoly held by mobile operators to sustainable competition designed to encourage investment and job creation.
we must insist on aligning these countries with the european union's standards for food quality and safety, environmental protection and quality of animal life, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity.
the ponta government represents a real hope for romania, a way out of poverty and unemployment for romanian citizens, because it is a government that wants to ensure sustainable economic growth and an increase in living standards.
we encourage local and regional authorities to present sustainable mobility plans that provide for an efficient logistics chain.
if not identified and managed properly, conflicts of interest can distort the allocation of public resources, human resources policy, lead to waste of public money and to a decline in citizens' trust in european public institutions.
a third agency is the environment agency, where we've seen problems with public procurement, with spending public money.
we recall the importance of investment in this sector, which will have beneficial effects on many sectors and policies of the european union, in particular on logistics, sustainable transport and transport safety.
i support the position of my rapporteur and colleague, mrs monica macovei, who is certainly one of the best people to deal with the postponement of the discharge for the european environment agency, but also for efsa and the ema.
− the report on the 2010 discharge for the european environment agency provided for postponement of the discharge.
in 2010, while the eea executive director was a member of the international board of directors of earthwatch, 29 staff members of the agency, including the executive director, went for up to 10 days of research on different biodiversity projects in the caribbean or mediterranean managed by earthwatch to whom the agency paid a total of eur 33 791,28. moreover, worldwatch institute europe used the eea premises for its own activities without paying any rent.
- i voted to postpone the discharge for the european environment agency, the european medicines agency and the european food safety authority, following the alarm signals regarding possible conflicts of interest and, in particular, the excessive expenditure attributed to them.
− the european maritime safety agency (emsa) provides technical assistance and support to the european union and its member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety, pollution from shipping and maritime security.
at the same time, it will ensure that the eu's high standards in public health and the environment are further promoted, avoiding the substitution of products that meet lower standards in these areas.
the eu's chemical industry is the third largest in the world, generating direct waste of hazardous chemicals.
the regulation on the export and import of dangerous chemicals aims to promote joint responsibilities and cooperative efforts in the field of international transport of chemicals that present a risk in order to protect human health and the environment from potential harm.
the eu is a world leader in environmental legislation and i believe it is our duty to maintain this position.
i did so because i believe that this report contains a balanced analysis of the role that the eu has to play in protecting human health and the environment, both within and outside europe.
the eu, deeming health and environmental protection to be of fundamental importance for its citizens, has decided to extend the list of prohibited chemicals established by the international rotterdam convention.
i welcome the rapporteur’s suggestion to oppose allowing exporters to trade the listed products when they have not received a response within 60 days from the importing countries, because this would create an exception that would be potentially harmful to the health and to the environment of those countries with weaker administrations.
− a note of caution is required in the case of commercial transfer of chemicals between countries, as they involve risks to the environment and the population.
i believe that these countries need to reinvigorate their economies to achieve sustainable and inclusive economic growth, and that this requires much more consistent and fairer support from the eu for real economic development for the benefit of all.
however, i insist on the need to impose on farmers in these countries who wish to export to eu countries the same standards of food safety, the environment and animal welfare as are imposed on european farmers.
the air transport framework agreement includes a gradual phasing-out of traffic rights and investment opportunities, as well as large-scale cooperation on a range of issues including safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition.
the same inhumanity is shown by the repressive forces that beat up environmental protesters, or anti-globalization, or anti-arms, or sports galleries.
this second report will assess the state of play of the previously promised actions, including the policy cycle, but we are also looking at the opportunities that security can offer in responding to the economic and financial crisis, because of course this is also key in establishing an environment where people, investors and companies feel safe and secure.
we have seen this for example in the context of environmental crime, where two important directives were adopted in 2008 and 2009. these were the first instruments adopted on criminal law in the ordinary legislative proposal.
in romania, the liberalisation of gas and energy prices involves identifying vulnerable consumers in order to protect them from the impact of price adjustments.
the jeremie participation fund is subsidised in my country by the erdf and its objectives are to promote sustainable growth in the productive sector.
at the same time, it aims to strengthen a business-friendly environment through a flexible strategic approach.
the commission must take the following concrete steps, which are essential to facilitate the implementation of an entrepreneurial framework: - draw up a plan to ensure the introduction of innovative products on the market and their commercialisation; - define a clear strategy to ensure that every european citizen has the opportunity to work in another member state; - introduction of a set of measures to support smes in implementing the new energy efficiency plan.
this is why the development of new jobs in the fields of energy, building construction, infrastructure and equipment, transport and communications are economic development projects capable of reducing regional asymmetries and development inequalities in the european union.
in countries such as romania, technical assistance programmes have been successful and continue to be a necessary support for the entrepreneurial environment.
a strategy is therefore needed to provide a climate of increased security for every european citizen, but this security requires respect for common values and priorities, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and democracy.
the key elements of ensuring a secure environment for european citizens must be the involvement of the european institutions and political, economic and social actors in security strategies, the strengthening of mechanisms to prevent crime, terrorism and criminality, and cooperation and solidarity between member states.
the lack of transparency in key markets, including in the energy and transport sectors, can lead to increased difficulties for consumers, in particular in identifying the right tariff for their needs, switching suppliers and understanding the elements invoiced.
so clearly, there is no sustainable economic growth without financial stability.
we ask that the eib focus on supporting smes and infrastructure projects, particularly in the transport and energy sectors.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
at the same time, i am disappointed that his amendments and our similar amendments in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety have not received sufficient support.
future agreements will have to be much more ambitious if we are really to protect the marine environment and the healthy food source it provides.
eu producers are obliged to respect the highest standards of quality, product hygiene and the environment.
i would point out that romania pays particular attention to intensifying economic cooperation with china, especially in areas such as cross-border infrastructure, energy, agriculture or tourism.
they must also support democratic developments, sustainable development and respect for human rights.
fisheries remains one of the areas on which the european economy and a significant number of workers in the member states depend, and ensuring the premises of sustainable development requires the adoption of measures that offer prospects for growth and long-term stability.
at the same time, it is important that the european institutions clearly and consistently undertake the imperatives of biodiversity conservation, as reflected in union policy documents such as the europe 2020 strategy.
i support the adoption of the report as a strong signal from the european union and its institutions to the imperatives of protecting the environment and restoring stocks.
i also believe that the eu must be involved in promoting sound and sustainable management of bluefin tuna stocks, upholding these principles in relation to other important players in this sector, in particular japan.
such a measure would also be in line with eu environmental legislation (emcdda, natura 2000, etc.).
fish is a fundamental resource for our economy and the biodiversity of our seas is of undisputable value.
a careful and well-tuned regulation of fishing practices and environmental protection is therefore essential.
the objective of the measures to reduce fishing capacity is to ensure the effectiveness of the bluefin tuna recovery plan with a view to achieving a biomass corresponding to maximum sustainable yield of at least 60% by 2022. i believe that for the next period a timetable is needed for adjusting the capacity of each member state so that all member states eliminate entirely the difference between their fishing capacity and their own fishing capacity in proportion to the quota allocated, applicable both to fishing vessels and to traps.
it is regrettable that the text does not represent a significant improvement on the commission’s proposal, and i am not convinced that it is consistent with the eu’s obligation, as laid down in the marine framework strategy directive, to achieve good environmental status by 2020. on the plus side, the new rules will come into effect before the next fishing season.
− i voted in favour of this report because the consequences of major ecological disasters demonstrate the need to accelerate the introduction of double hull requirements or equivalent design standards for single hull tankers.
i consider this subject to be particularly important in view of the erika cases of 1999 and the le prestige case of 2002, and in view of the fact that oil tanker oil spills are major ecological disasters for both marine fauna and flora and for tourism in coastal areas.
the objective of this regulation is to reduce the risks of accidental pollution of european waters through the accelerated introduction of double hulls.
if this metal plate is damaged by collision or failure, the contents of the cargo tanks risk spilling into the sea and causing major pollution.
such a 'double hull' design protects the loading tanks against damage and thus reduces the risk of pollution.
i believe that the partnership agreement will provide the appropriate framework for increasing the sustainability and good governance of the fisheries sector by mozambique.
the introduction of the tax, together with the implementation of an effective supervisory system, may lead, in the medium and long term, to a reorientation of the trading system towards productive and sustainable investments for european economies.
we need to take action to remedy the effects of the economic downturn and to finance sustainable growth and development.
this report, by calling on the commission to negotiate an ambitious and balanced eu-china investment agreement, able to create a better environment for eu investors in china, and to improve the transparency regarding governance of chinese companies which invest within the eu, will represent an important starting point for an improved and more trustful trade relation with china, which most certainly is a crucial partner for the european union and its member states.
i urge the commission to negotiate an ambitious and balanced eu-china agreement aimed at creating a better environment for european investors in china and guaranteeing transparency in the governance of chinese companies investing in the eu, while increasing the level of mutual capital flows.
therefore, in accordance with national parliamentary practice and the requirements of the treaty on european union, the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community, the committees of inquiry of the european parliament should be strengthened by conferring on them specific, real and clearly delimited powers which are more in line with its powers and political status, while respecting the principle of proportionality as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union.
in this context, the european union must work towards the development of a global system for the use and allocation of world resources and i therefore ask the european executive to seek to include environmental standards and the principle of fair trade on the agenda of the world trade organisation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
there are member states that have completely eliminated landfilling of municipal waste, such as germany and the netherlands, countries where the recycling rate of municipal waste is very high, such as belgium or sweden, or countries where the recycling rate is quite low, such as romania.
in this context, i would like to add that the adoption of a national waste management strategy and plan is one of the priorities of the new romanian government.
it's essential that we have the citizens on our side, that more and more people are proactive, believe in sustainable consumption, in the importance of recycling and minimizing waste.
we already know that mineral resources are not renewable, but neither are water, soil or air.
the efficient use of energy resources is a key element of energy policy, which aims to achieve the sustainability objective of the eu 2020 strategy.
i am convinced that in the next decade renewable energy, which today is still a luxury, will overtake the role of alternative sources and become the main source of energy in the eu.
however, the energy potential of the member states differs.
they must focus on the internal energy potential.
natural gas will play an important role in the union's energy mix, given the new extraction procedures.
however, energy efficiency is dependent on the union's ability to connect these markets.
we need considerable investment in energy infrastructure, which could ensure easy transport between member states.
this is why the european commission should initiate the transformation of europe's energy production by organising, for example, a forum with local and regional authorities and relevant stakeholders from both the private and public sectors as a starting point.
however, although i am commissioner for the environment, allow me to focus briefly on concerns which were raised by some of your colleagues in connection with the economy and the current situation, and why it is so important that the ideas in the gerbrandy report are supported.
in many cases it is already recognised that energy and raw materials are critical.
because using less water, less energy and less raw materials, and producing products which can be reused and recycled makes economic sense.
so ultimately we are talking about economic resilience and environmental resilience at the same time.
it will rightly be an important part of the seventh environmental action programme and, of course, the urgency of implementation is the core consideration.
but a sustainable future, my friends, is simply not a choice.
the initiative to promote resource efficiency is part of the europe 2020 strategy and is one of the principles on which eu action on climate change, energy, transport, raw materials, agriculture, fisheries, biodiversity and regional development will be based.
i mention that the growing demand for natural resources and their overexploitation are leading to environmental degradation, accelerating climate change and destroying the planet's finite natural capital, including the decline of biodiversity.
one aspect which is particularly important and which deserves special attention is the relationship between water use, food production and food waste.
the amount of water and energy which fuels this level of waste is shocking.
we know that food waste is produced throughout the supply chain, at producer and retail level, as well as at consumer level.
we need urgent action to tackle food waste at all levels.
we can invest in all the irrigation technology and green energy we want, but there seems little point if it just produces food which rots on the supermarket shelf or ends up in the kitchen bin.
the long-term sustainable development of europe depends on how we harness the economic potential generated by young talent.
this is a waste of money that member states have invested in education and it is a wake-up call that we urgently need to adapt the school curriculum to the needs of the labour market.
macro-financial assistance should include measures to enhance the commitment of beneficiary countries to the common values shared with the union, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights, combating forced child labour, support for sustainable development and poverty reduction, and other principles of free, fair and rules-based trade.
more efficient use of resources will enable us to meet many of the eu's objectives and will be essential if we are to make progress in the fight against climate change and meet our target of reducing eu greenhouse gas emissions by 80 to 95% by 2050.
in writing.
in the context of the economic crisis and the alarming rise in food and energy prices, we need to equip the european union with a viable strategy in this area.
by investing in green technologies, the european union can not only create jobs, but also improve its competitiveness and reduce its energy dependence.
we call on the commission to streamline the waste acquis and ask the commission to make proposals by 2014 to phase out the incineration of recyclable waste by the end of this decade.
we also ask the commission to review the 2020 recycling targets in the waste framework directive.
i believe that a fair opening of world markets for green goods and services encourages sustainable consumption, creates export opportunities and new jobs based on the use of new technologies.
we urge the commission to calculate and make public the costs of environmental damage as a consequence of eu agriculture and fisheries policy.
it is necessary for the swiss authorities to review the measures taken in order to ensure a favourable climate for the development of swiss participation in the single market.
this could include deepening existing dialogues such as economic dialogue and opening new ones on energy and climate change.
when do we ask azerbaijan to support our energy policies through projects that can benefit the european citizen?
let us not talk about human rights, but let us vote for the european union to have an energy policy that favours the european citizen.
many of the problems confronting both are similar – ageing populations, a social system based on budgetary deficits, concern for the environment, etc.
unfortunately, important areas such as budget, energy, transport, taxation, the internal market, consumer rights, food safety and fisheries are not available in all the official languages of the union.
according to the latest data from the world bank, a global waste management crisis is looming.
it is estimated that the amount of waste generated by city dwellers will increase from 1.3 billion tons per year now to 2.2 billion tons by 2025, and with that, the cost of solid waste management will rise.
first, great attention should be paid to educating and informing the general public about the options available to them to reduce the amount of waste generated, to sort waste efficiently and to increase recycling.
more support should be given to poor countries, where national and local governments will face an increase in urban population and, consequently, a higher amount of solid waste generated.
i support this initiative because young people have limited access to the labour market at the moment and the new measures proposed offer them the opportunity to develop more easily the personal and professional skills needed to integrate more quickly into an intercultural environment.
the eradication of poverty through sustainable development is vital for good governance, democracy and human rights.
it is also threatened by violence and insecurity, which jeopardise the sustainability of its own development.
renewable energy is a field with potential for job creation.
- i voted in favour of this report because latin america needs to turn the rather encouraging economic growth it enjoys into sustainable development.
as a member of the european parliament's delegation for relations with mercosur, i believe that the european union must continue to give strong support to the development and stabilisation process in the region and develop, in close consultation with the latin american countries, a policy for the development of the region which is sustainable, equitable and balanced.
to this end, i recommend intensifying bilateral dialogue and cooperation in key areas of common interest such as energy, transport, research, science and technology, and good governance in fiscal matters.
− i voted in favour of the report on the definition of a new development cooperation policy in relations with latin america, as, according to the lisbon treaty, the overall objective of development cooperation is to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable economic and social development, and to achieve the millennium development goals (mdgs) by 2015. latin america and the eu form a bi-regional strategic partnership based on shared values and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, with brazil and mexico being two of the eu's nine strategic partners in the world.
the eu's priorities in development cooperation and implicitly with latin america include energy efficiency, renewable energy, transport, biodiversity protection and support for smes.
in this context, the conclusion of an eu-mercosur association agreement will stimulate cooperation and development between latin america and the union, provided that it is based on the principle of fair trade and on respect for labour, environmental, public procurement and intellectual property rights standards.
without a more secure digital environment, both european economies and citizens suffer.
− strengthening the external dimension of the eu's energy policy will ensure that the union has secure, sustainable and affordable energy.
i believe that there is a need for better coordination of member states' policies in this area and for closer cooperation between the council, the commission and the european external action service on matters relating to the common external energy policy, so that the european union can have an improved negotiating position vis-à-vis third countries.
- i voted in favour of this report because the european union must succeed in diversifying its sources and transport routes to ensure the security of its energy supply.
to this end, coordination and coherence between external, energy and trade policies are needed.
romania considers that the black sea has a major potential in achieving european energy security, representing a gateway to central asia and the caspian area.
a concrete example is the agri interconnector project for the transport of liquefied natural gas, as well as the energy cooperation initiated with turkmenistan.
at the same time, my country supports major projects such as the nabucco pipeline and the southern corridor, because their completion will allow energy diversification on the european market, but also reduce the current degree of dependence on certain energy sources or routes.
at the same time, romania attaches particular importance to the interconnection of energy networks with neighbouring states.
and the gas fields discovered in the black sea will allow romania, according to estimates, to be energy independent within three to four years.
- i agree with the rapporteur that europe is a major buyer of energy on world markets.
- i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that we need improved security of energy supply.
on the one hand, the european commission needs to provide a clearer definition of 'energy solidarity' between eu member states, and on the other, there needs to be real diversification of suppliers, routes and sources of external energy supply.
it is estimated that by 2030, global energy demand will increase by 40%.
in addition, the eu's dependence on energy imports could also increase, despite efforts to improve energy efficiency and use renewable energy sources.
the nabucco project could have contributed to a necessary diversification of energy supply sources.
last but not least, it is beneficial to continue cooperation in research, development and innovation with third countries, which will allow the european union to remain a major player globally, including in partnerships in international fora: the eu-russia dialogue, the eu-us, the energy charter, the energy community process and relations with other international bodies concerned with energy and climate.
− i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on engaging in energy policy cooperation with partners beyond our borders: a strategic approach to secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply, because it addresses the crucial challenges of the union’s energy policy in its foreign relations, carefully taking into account the main aspect of security of energy supply.
europe plays a key role in the global energy market, especially in terms of consumption.
energy policy, therefore, must align the geopolitical and strategic role of the european union with its energy needs.
in addition, the report stresses the importance of parliament being appropriately involved in the consultation processes relating to energy policy, in line with the article 194 of the tfeu.
− energy policies are a priority for the european union and efforts to extend cooperation to as many of the community's neighbouring countries as possible should be encouraged and addressed with great seriousness.
i regret, however, that the process of negotiations with a view to the enlargement of the energy community with countries such as turkey and the southern mediterranean countries is slow and difficult, although rapid measures are needed to enlarge the european energy system, based on strategic cooperation.
i also believe that we must now focus our attention on urgent cooperation initiatives in the field of clean, renewable energy, in the context of the expected increase in the global population, which will lead to a significant increase in energy consumption over the next 20 years.
− i voted for the report on engaging in energy policy cooperation with partners beyond our borders: a strategic approach to secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply.
i voted for the amendment which calls on the commission to draw up common energy roadmaps with all the main energy suppliers and with strategically important transit countries.
we also called for partnerships with countries facing similar energy challenges to promote cooperation in technology, research and industry and to create common standards on renewable energy technologies, energy efficiency, electric vehicles, new and unconventional energy technologies, offshore drilling safety, and nuclear safety and non-proliferation.
i would like to stress the geostrategic position of the black sea region in terms of diversifying energy sources and routes and renewable energy potential.
we call for the application of existing mechanisms and the creation of new ones within the european neighbourhood policy and the black sea synergy, in order to strengthen cooperation and the stability of the eu's energy supply.
but to achieve them, we need a budget that can meet the challenges ahead: globalisation, climate and demographic change, the transformation of the economy to one based on new technologies.
the eu offers low customs duties or tax exemptions for 178 countries and territories, while granting special benefits to the 50 least developed countries and to those that apply labour and environmental protection standards.
− i believe that the purpose of this key trade instrument - the gsp - is to enable developing countries to participate more intensively in international trade and thus generate additional export revenues, to support income growth and the implementation of their own sustainable development and poverty reduction policies.
i positively welcome the interconnection made between the concessions granted to those countries and the need for improvements, on their side, concerning human rights, labour rights and sustainability.
i stress that the union's budgetary policy must be aligned with the europe 2020 strategy in order to ensure smart and sustainable growth.
i draw attention to the fact that the bank should contribute to the transition towards energy efficiency and an open and inclusive market economy, while taking into account the social, civic and human rights context.
the european parliament amended the commission proposal to include aspects of the effective implementation of international law principles on corporate responsibility, employee rights and access to information on the environmental impact of projects financed by the ebrd.
i welcome the support of the ebrd for projects aimed at, inter alia, promoting sustainable development, poverty eradication, environmental protection and human rights protection, as well as encouraging the private sector, with a focus on developing entrepreneurship among young people.
- the events that gave rise to the 'arab spring' have not only resulted in the democratisation of the states of the southern and eastern mediterranean, but also in the opening of a dialogue and long-term cooperation with the structures of the european union, which can only be of benefit to the states concerned, with a view to their rapid and sustainable reconstruction.
therefore, the inclusion of these countries in the scope of the ebrd will certainly facilitate the transition to an open market economy, but will also encourage cooperation with the eu countries in various sectors of the economy, one of which is the energy sector itself, which is of priority importance in the current global context.
the representatives of the union on the governing bodies of the ebrd should encourage the ebrd to expand its work on private sector development in order to contribute, also through its financing, to the achievement of a socially and environmentally sustainable society.
the contribution of the ebrd to the transition to an open, energy-efficient and socially inclusive market economy should be encouraged, while taking into account the social context, civil and human rights.
the next multiannual financial framework (mff) cannot be adopted without a political agreement on reforming the own resources system, ending current cuts and other corrective mechanisms and leading to more transparency, fairness and sustainability.
concerning the main issue in this process – the status of human rights – it is stated clearly in the resolution that the andean countries should ensure the establishment of a transparent and binding road map on human, environmental and labour rights, which should be aimed essentially at safeguarding human rights, enhancing and improving trade unionists’ rights and protecting the environment.
to accelerate job creation, we need proposals towards a european investment plan, a coherent european industrial strategy and investment in public services, based on new sources of revenue, including a financial transactions tax and eurobonds, giving priority to investments that promote a sustainable economy, quality jobs and social justice.
history provides too many examples of devastating industrial accidents involving dangerous chemicals that take lives and destroy the environment.
although community legislation has evolved to reduce the frequency and impact of these accidents, since the accident in hungary in 2010, we have all understood that further improvements and revisions of community rules are needed to strengthen the protection of communities and the environment against these potential catastrophes.
for several years i have opposed a mining project in romania which, in the event of an accident, would damage a vast region, valuable both from the point of view of the environment and biodiversity, and from the cultural and historical point of view, by pollution with cyanide.
the legislation in question strengthens the policy of preventing chemical accidents and of responding to them by operators and authorities responsible in the event of accidents, in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment.
it is of the utmost importance for the public to be able to access information on their legitimate concerns regarding the safety of the environment in which they live, as well as to have access to information on how to react in the event of accidents involving dangerous substances.
that is why i welcomed the commission's proposal and the improvements made to it in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
accidents such as the one with the red mud in hungary in 2010 must be prevented in order to limit the negative consequences for people and the environment.
public information is also essential, as it will lead to a climate of trust.
we need to move towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and concrete action is needed to do so.
the union needs a legislative framework adapted to the current requirements of companies, which corresponds to the developments in the european economic environment.
− the recent serious industrial accidents involving dangerous substances, which have had a profound impact on the environment and human lives, not to mention the fact that they have generated enormous costs, raise an alarm that measures to prevent such disasters are either not yet sufficiently regulated at european level or not sufficiently understood to require the utmost caution on the part of those involved.
so a review of these prevention measures is more than encouraged and comes at an opportune time, when one of the main concerns at the level of the european union, but also at the international level, is directed towards environmental policies.
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
of course this commission proposal will be discussed on the basis of the opinion which will be again produced by mr seeber, the rapporteur, in september in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
such investments allow for better management of natural water resources and the achievement of targets for increasing the share of clean energy in the electricity production of member states.
on the other hand, proper water management is important for the achievement of biodiversity and water-based ecosystem services, as well as for reforestation and wetland restoration.
– it is clear that time is running out to achieve the objectives of the water framework directive, namely to protect and restore clean water, to ensure its sustainable use, and to achieve good ecological and chemical status by 2015. part of the solution lies in better water management and further improvements in water efficiency, especially in agriculture.
drip irrigation techniques need to be more widely used, and support should be given to developing innovative irrigation techniques and improving recycling and treatment of waste water for use in agriculture.
in the medium to long-term we can only expect pressure on water supplies to further increase, not least because of climate change and the additional demands placed on food producers by a growing world population.
water use in agriculture will be a crucial factor in determining whether we meet our sustainability targets and ensure enough good quality water for everyone into the future.
they are victims of fishing methods, illegal fishing, but also pollution.
last but not least, there is a need to better promote public-private partnerships, support freelancers in view of the number and variety of new opportunities, and support smes in facilitating access to investment, especially long-term and sustainable investment.
in the current economic climate we need to create the necessary conditions to offer our companies and citizens the best possible business environment to produce and to compete in europe.
welcomes the accession of ukraine and the republic of moldova to the energy community treaty, which will play an important role in achieving the union's energy security objectives and contribute to the security of these countries.
call for strengthening of cooperation between the european union and ukraine in the energy sector in order to integrate the ukrainian energy sector with the energy sector of the european union and to initiate joint projects of modernization and development in the field of energy infrastructure.
i call on the commission to continue developing the european union black sea strategy, given its importance in the european union's external energy strategy, due to its strategic role, which gives it significant potential for energy security and diversification of the routes and sources of energy supply to the european union.
it can make an important contribution to economic recovery, to encouraging democratic reforms, but also to energy security.
i also stress the importance of connecting the eastern partnership countries to european infrastructure, especially in the energy field.
it is also carrying out several projects with the republic of moldova, the ungheni-iaşi gas pipeline and the fălciu-goteşti and suceava-bălţi electricity lines, to link energy systems, strengthen or repair bridges over the prut river.
by creating deep and comprehensive free trade areas, we can stimulate partner countries to continue the reforms they have started, so as to achieve a stable and predictable economic environment, in which the democratic principles on which the union is founded are respected.
i also hope that the eu black sea strategy will be developed, given its importance in the eu's external energy strategy, with concrete perspectives for strengthening energy security and diversifying supply.
the area offers optimal conditions for development, both in terms of maritime traffic and renewable energy.
particular attention should be paid to investments in areas that are future-oriented and to ensuring the sustainability of pension systems.
for these societies, their development is a key requirement, and for europe it is an opportunity, because it could translate into greater security, more 'sustainable' control of immigration flows and direct participation in this area of growth.
the macro-regional strategies started three years ago with the baltic macro-region strategy, which set the objective of concentrating cooperation between the regions of the states around the baltic sea in the areas of environment, prosperity, accessibility and security.
however, i believe that macro-regions represent european added value and can contribute to the implementation of trans-european energy and transport projects.
major areas of intervention should include energy networks, scientific cooperation and innovation, cultural networks, education and training, tourism, trade, environmental protection, sustainable shipping, maritime safety and security and protection of the marine environment against pollution, overfishing and illegal fishing, strengthening good governance and effective public administration to promote job creation.
the new directive requires member states to adopt and publish an indicative strategy covering a period of at least five years, renewable, on the development of railway infrastructure to meet mobility needs, on the maintenance, renewal and development of infrastructure, based on sustainable financing of the railway system.
protection of intellectual property rights (ipr) is therefore beneficial, both for the business environment, for innovators and consumers, and for those involved in cultural creations.
an adequate and fair level of ipr enforcement constitutes the prerequisite and the necessary environment for its realisation.
that is why i believe that resources must be protected as much as possible from the risks to which they are exposed, such as population growth, urbanization, pollution, overconsumption or climate change.
the protection of water resources, in particular drinking water, must be approached from a global perspective, taking into account all the ecosystem services provided by water.
it is important that pollution be controlled at source to prevent the release of hazardous substances into the environment and to reduce the pressure on wastewater treatment.
in view of the above, i believe that sustainable water use is not only an environmental but also an economic necessity and that greater transparency in water pricing systems would be necessary.
in many places in europe, water abstraction is below sustainable levels, threatening wildlife, the security of society's water supply, and in some regions of southern europe, the water abstraction index has exceeded 40%.
the future of industry in europe depends on finding effective responses to today's water challenges and on the responsible and efficient management of existing water resources, which directly affect human health, energy production, agriculture and food security.
i'm highlighting the link between energy production, energy efficiency and water security.
i stress that strategies need to be adopted at european level to ensure that the increasing demand for energy does not pose a threat to security and sustainable water availability.
i believe that investing in human capital training, promoting the entrepreneurial spirit and stimulating a favourable environment for small businesses are vital elements in the eu's ability to attract foreign direct investment.
but we cannot talk about attracting investment to europe without having in mind the creation of a favourable investment climate through sustained economic growth.
trade agreements are vital tools for building long-term economic relations with our eastern partners and lead to the promotion of economic reforms, the rule of law and social and environmental standards in our neighbourhood.
i stress the importance of moldova's continued alignment with the eu of its energy infrastructure and its systems of technical regulation, standardisation, conformity assessment, testing, and market surveillance.
to meet these challenges, rural development policy has as its main objectives to increase the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sector, to develop rural areas and the environment and to encourage diversification of the rural economy.
in the light of these priorities, and on the basis of the regi commission's powers, i support, in the context of this report, 1. maintaining the balance between environmental protection and local development needs; 2. involvement of national, regional and local representatives in national rural networks; 3. encouraging the creation of online advice platforms for farmers using broadband, and, not least:4. the compatibility of eafrd aid with the objectives of economic and social cohesion, as well as territorial cohesion.
so we can see that it is the best investment tool the eu has in order to boost smart growth and sustainable jobs.
i believe that the priorities set demonstrate the serious commitment of the presidency to contribute to the achievement of the european union's objectives of sustainable growth, social cohesion and job creation.
in the following, i would like to refer to the environmental component of the action programme.
as regards biodiversity policy, i urge the cypriot presidency to promote serious commitments by the parties and concrete action as possible in the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity or in the meetings on the cartagena protocol on biosafety.
i also believe that the presidency should support the mainstreaming of biodiversity policy funding into all future funding lines of the 2014-12 multiannual financial framework.
turning now to water policy, i believe that the presidency needs to show ambition in the negotiations on the revision of the water policy priority substances directive and also to ensure that the objective of investing in sustainable water management can be achieved through the future union budget.
also, given the importance of trans-european transport, energy and communications infrastructure, i appreciate the priority given by the cypriot presidency of the council of the eu to the adoption of the connecting europe facility.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to submit a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the member states.
under that regulation, farm advisory services cover at least one or more of the statutory management and good agricultural and environmental conditions requirements laid down in regulation (ec) no 73/2009 and, where applicable, one or more of the labour safety rules based on union legislation.
this adaptation is particularly important, especially with regard to organic and ecological products, in order to pay greater attention to consumer expectations as regards the quality of those products.
i therefore believe that the principle of reciprocity in eu-russia trade relations should be emphasised, by regulating and implementing concrete measures that benefit both sides, especially in critical sectors of activity such as energy or mineral resources.
despite the central need to protect our market and our customers from counterfeit goods from outside the union accessing the market, the need to defend the intellectual property rights regime, also in the digital environment, and the fundamental need for a global approach on this matter, acta unfortunately raised more perplexities than guarantees.
however, this reform process has generated certain requirements for a better distribution of support between member states and within regions, as well as for a better orientation towards environmental issues and high market volatility.
i voted for the provision of adequate staff for the iter joint undertaking and for the development of fusion energy, to ensure the careful management and good use of europe's contribution to the iter project.
the commission and the member states should ensure that the horizon 2020 research programme provides for appropriate research opportunities in the field of biodiversity conservation, wildlife trade, development and validation of non-animal alternatives and the impact of emerging technologies.
it represents a step towards a necessary revitalisation of public and private investment, geared towards sustainable economic growth in europe, aiming in particular at achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
i voted in favour of the measures needed to ensure financial stability, in particular in the euro area, and to minimise the cost to european citizens of banks failing to meet their obligations; to ensure a viable process of fiscal policy-making at national and european level; to ensure that there are national and european policies that promote sustainable economic growth, employment and competitiveness and are compatible with the smooth functioning of emu; to ensure the democratic legitimacy and accountability of decision-making in emu, based on the exercise of community sovereignty in common policies and solidarity.
this pact is a step towards a much-needed revitalisation of public and private investment in sustainable economic growth in europe, aimed in particular at achieving the europe 2020 objectives, in particular those of resource efficiency and sustainability, and the completion of the internal market.
the new mechanisms, like the connecting europe facility, should primarily rely on these financial instruments to develop energy and telecom infrastructure in a stable and transparent framework which will not distort markets and which will attract private investors, rather than crowding them out by creating an uneven competition between public and private money.
the pilot phase should be financed in 2012 and 2013 through budgetary reallocations from the current transport, energy and telecommunications programmes.
there is now an urgent need to boost investment in transport, energy and information and communication technology infrastructure.
mr president, at rio+20 the world leaders focused on sustainable development.
they recognised that we are confronting not only an economic crisis but also an environmental crisis.
they also recognised that we need bolder action to stop the destruction of the environment.
therefore, people who pollute and firms who pollute should pay the right price for destroying the environment.
we in the european institutions should support technical innovation for a green economy; we should support action to preserve nature; and we should support taxes on energy based on carbon.
we should also support the improvement of our accounting systems to reflect the impact of our way of life on the environment.
− i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the decision establishing a competitiveness and innovation framework programme (2007-2013) and laying down general rules for the granting of community financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks, because i believe it may become an important tool in the achievement of the economic relaunch of the union.
as unanimously agreed upon, investments in infrastructure will have to play a crucial role in this sense, not only as a means for growth and for the completion of the single market in transport and energy, but also as a necessary precondition for the convergence of the european regions.
i have noted, however, that the allocation of budgetary funds to the three critical areas (transport, energy and information technology) is disproportionate, in that the financial resources for the trans-european energy and information networks in the 2012-13 pilot phase will be limited to eur 10 billion and eur 20 billion respectively, compared to the amount of eur 230 billion allocated to the trans-european transport networks.
the energy infrastructure sector, in particular the clean and resource-efficient energy sectors, is a top priority for the eu's policy on sustainable economic growth and therefore deserves a much larger share of the available funds, at least half of which is allocated to transport.
an argument such as the obstacles to the authorization of these energy projects is unacceptable and our efforts must be directed towards reducing the bureaucratic procedures that impede economic development, and not towards reducing the allocation of funds for these reasons.
i believe this is a key stage in attracting private sector funding for transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure, which has a significant potential to contribute to job creation and growth.
− i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the proposal to amend decision no 1639/2006/ec establishing a framework programme for innovation and competitiveness (2007-2013) and regulation (ec) no 680/2007 laying down general rules for the granting of community financial assistance in the field of trans-european transport and energy networks.
difficulties in accessing long-term private or public sector financing for infrastructure projects should not lead to a deterioration in the performance of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructures, nor to a delay in the penetration of broadband networks.
the european parliament regrets that, despite the provisions of article 310 (5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on sound financial management and the joint declaration on payment credits agreed by all three institutions in the 2012 budgetary procedure, the council initially decided to reduce by two thirds the amount of eur 485 million for the transfer request of dec 9/2012 from energy projects with a low execution level to supporting economic recovery by strengthening the three budget lines for fp7 - cooperation.
european standardisation strengthens the competitiveness of the business environment when it is in line with the international standardisation system.
this category of farmers should be protected and supported, especially as they often produce the healthiest food with no impact on the environment.
a so-called environmental protection agency has given a favorable opinion for the use of the most poisonous substances in the gold and silver mines of certej, transylvania.
the shadow owner of the canadian gold corporation, which has received the environmental clearance, is the shark george soros.
it is obvious that we are dealing with a test balloon thrown into the stratosphere by the local mafia and the transnational mafia to test the reaction of the european institutions, environmental organizations and romanian public opinion - a kind of training with the public for the big blows that are being prepared at roşia montană and bucium poieni, where there are infinitely more important deposits.
i ask the parliament of which i am a member, and the relevant structures of the european commission, to act urgently to annul this dead-end environmental opinion.
climate change and biodiversity loss threaten the living conditions, social status and well-being of the population.
it calls on the member states to take measures to help women reconcile their private and professional lives and to encourage entrepreneurship in sectors such as renewable energy, agriculture, tourism and the pursuit of green innovation, particularly in the service sector.
the commission estimates that the implementation of the energy efficiency plan has the potential to create up to two million jobs.
it calls on the member states to develop training courses, through the erdf and esf programmes, to facilitate women's access to new green jobs and emerging technologies with an environmental impact.
i support the adoption by member states of fiscal policies that promote the development of a green economy, stimulate investment in sustainable infrastructure and green innovation.
the european parliament has consistently supported the objective of encouraging maritime transport, given its low environmental impact.
in the amendments tabled and adopted in the tran committee, i called for member states to encourage the use of shore-based electricity as an alternative measure to ensure the availability and balanced distribution of marine fuels and to reduce emissions from shipping.
the energy performance of buildings directive requires member states to achieve near-zero energy consumption for all new buildings from 2021 and for all new buildings occupied and owned by public authorities from 2019. however, so far the commission has not received any national plan on increasing the number of nearly zero-energy buildings.
the directive discussed today introduces new obligations for member states, such as the annual renovation of 3% of the surface of buildings owned by public institutions, to increase energy efficiency.
i call for energy efficiency measures to have adequate sources of funding in the future multiannual financial framework, in particular through the structural funds.
the new energy efficiency directive is an important step towards achieving the europe 2020 targets in both energy and pollution reduction.
the new directive could lead to a reduction in energy consumption, limit imports, create new jobs and social security.
it should be borne in mind that energy efficiency does not only mean investing in renewable energy or new energy projects, but first and foremost improving existing ones and reducing energy waste, which is very high at the moment, generating unjustifiable costs for citizens and, in particular, for socially vulnerable people.
it is essential that new investments in energy efficiency are economically sustainable and do not lead to unwanted side effects such as increased energy costs for end-users.
i also believe it is vital that this investment should also cover the private housing sector, as in many member states, especially in central and eastern europe, this generates extremely high energy losses.
the same applies to energy production and transmission infrastructure, which needs to be modernised to limit collateral losses.
– i congratulate the rapporteur for the work done on this sensitive subject: intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy.
at european level, it is better to have information about intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy than no information.
however, the european union is still far from its goal: to use the negotiation power of the european union for making agreements in the field of energy for the needs of the whole union.
the main issue now is that national regulation provides sufficient incentives and that energy policy provides sufficient planning certainty.
a number of companies in the insurance industry have told us that they hold shares in energy production, for my sake 5% in enel or eni or rwe or others, and therefore are not allowed to invest in networks purely formally.
if someone only has a financial stake of 3% or 5% in an energy producer, i believe he is still able to invest in the grid.
one of the objectives of the completion of the internal energy market is to reduce energy poverty and increase the accessibility of all citizens to energy, in particular electricity and gas.
the economic crisis has left the union's population poorer and the construction of major energy infrastructures delayed.
what is the impact of the implementation of the community energy acquis on reducing the risk of energy poverty in the european union?
in the field of energy: the commission is in the process of controlling the market, preventing or destroying monopolies, promoting competition and strengthening consumer rights.
in conclusion, the commission's budget proposal for the period 2014-2020 focuses on the energy sector.
we will publicly fund energy research with european funds and thus relieve the burden on consumers.
we want to co-finance infrastructure connecting europe facility with 19.1 billion from the european budget, thus relieving the burden on electricity and gas consumers, and we want to co-finance energy efficiency by focusing our structural programmes on the renovation of european buildings with the aim of achieving higher energy efficiency and thus lowering the long-term electricity bill, whether for schools, kindergartens or old people's homes, whether for private homes or for public infrastructure.
i would also like to ask you what is the state of play in implementing the intelligent electricity transmission networks, the so-called smart grid, what are the funding prospects in the future multiannual financial framework, outside the connecting europe facility and, lastly, given that the balkans are facing an energy shortage, how does the commission envisage international cooperation to provide the energy needed by this region?
i voted in favour of this report because energy consumption must be reduced.
my country has set itself a target of reducing primary energy consumption by 19% by 2020, but the target is very ambitious and at the same time very difficult to achieve.
the main lines of action are to improve the efficiency of the energy production and distribution system and to inform the population.
i believe that priority access should continue to be given to renewable energy and investment in this area.
romania is increasingly encouraging this type of energy and is looking to continue promoting renewable energy sources through green certificates.
we are committed to offering a safe environment to vulnerable people, but this cannot be achieved without practical cooperation and effective allocation of responsibilities between member states, complemented by financial solidarity.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it will bring important benefits for both health and the environment.
air quality standards can be achieved by reducing sulphur emissions from ships.
maritime transport has a strong impact on air quality and can make an effective contribution to solving pollution problems.
i would stress that reducing marine emissions will also be a great economic benefit.
furthermore, continuing vocational training with an environmental component in this vocational training would be a second solution and, finally, the gender perspective in the implementation of european directives should be taken into account when member states implement this option in their own legislation.
adapting environmental policies to the gender dimension must take into account that women in general develop a more environmentally friendly attitude.
− the union has set ambitious standards for energy efficiency, but assessments show that the enormous potential of energy saving and efficiency is not being fully exploited.
that is why the energy efficiency directive is so important, because it sets a common framework for promoting energy efficiency in the union for 2020 and beyond.
i would particularly welcome the provisions on the long-term strategy for the renovation of buildings and the provisions on the financing schemes for energy efficiency measures.
− the european union is increasingly exposed to instability and rising prices on international energy markets, as well as to the consequences of hydrocarbon reserves being gradually monopolized by a small number of holders.
competition among energy suppliers will not be enough to keep energy costs under control.
another important aspect is the situation of residential and industrial buildings, which generate over 40% of primary energy consumption in europe.
improving the energy efficiency of buildings is absolutely necessary to meet important environmental protection objectives on the one hand and to reduce the increasing energy costs for building users on the other.
i therefore believe that the policies and measures adopted must lead to an absolute reduction in energy consumption, which will lead to a reduction in the overall cost of energy to consumers, freeing up revenues for eu citizens and businesses and reducing public sector expenditure.
− i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the new energy efficiency directive is an important step forward towards achieving the europe 2020 targets both in the field of energy and in reducing pollution.
it is essential that new investments in energy efficiency are economically sustainable and do not lead to unwanted side effects such as increased energy costs for end-users.
i also think it is important that this investment should also cover the private housing sector, as in many member states, especially in central and eastern europe, this generates extremely high energy losses.
the same applies to energy production and transmission infrastructure, which needs to be modernised to limit collateral losses.
− the european union must act as soon as possible to secure its energy future and protect its interests in this area.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the union's energy market.
by using community funds wisely for the next programming period 2014-2020, we will be able to achieve the 20% target for energy efficiency and, by implication, the sustainability and competitiveness objectives in the european union.
in addition, reducing consumption through energy efficiency is the most sustainable way to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and will generate a significant reduction in imports of about 25%.
− setting targets to reduce carbon emissions by 20% by the end of this decade means not only effort, but also numerous benefits.
energy efficiency benefits by significantly reducing the costs of energy consumption.
the eu is currently maintaining its global leadership in energy efficiency, but strengthening this position to compete successfully with emerging economies is achieved by supporting european green technology businesses.
eu energy efficiency policy must aim at the efficient exploitation of the energy potential of eu regions.
structural funds and national contributions aimed at financing energy efficiency projects should be a priority of cohesion policy.
supporting smes to improve sustainable technologies brings immediate benefits through significant cost reductions.
- i voted in favour of this report, which i consider particularly important, especially at a time of rising oil prices and intense debate on the use of agricultural products for energy production.
the report is a step forward in european energy-saving policy, a process which must continue.
− the european union's 20% energy efficiency target is one of the five main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
energy efficiency is also one of the key priorities of the european union's energy policy for the coming years, as it is the most cost-effective and fastest way to increase security of supply and an effective way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which are responsible for climate change.
achieving energy efficiency targets will improve the competitiveness of european industries and generate economic growth and job creation.
energy efficiency can also mean lower energy bills for citizens, as well as reducing energy poverty, which can be achieved by adopting and financing energy efficiency improvement measures.
i support the need for member states to use and increase the resources allocated to energy efficiency, in particular through the cohesion fund and the structural and rural development funds, as well as through specific european financial instruments such as the european energy efficiency fund.
i also think it is useful for member states to set up a national energy efficiency fund to support national energy efficiency initiatives.
the eu's commitment to establish a common european asylum system (ceas) this year is all the more important as migration flows increase, triggered by the economic crisis, climate change and, above all, the effects of the arab spring.
supporting the standardisation process can make a positive contribution to the european union's efforts to combat the effects of climate change and to supporting the work of small and medium-sized enterprises in the member states, the largest group of economic actors on the continent.
i also favour the proposed performance-based simplification of the current eu funding system in support of standardisation, as i believe it will help reduce the irrational waste of resources caused by the current lump sums-based system.
the creation of a common framework on safety and rights for workers, people with disabilities and measures to increase sustainability contribute to improving social standards in the eu.
sulphur dioxide emissions are known to cause acid rain and to generate suspended dust.
− air pollution from shipping is thought to be responsible for thousands of premature deaths each year in europe, as well as for causing significant long-term environmental damage.
it strikes the right balance between environmental protection, legal certainty, and a realistic target for operators.
as the commission’s analysis shows, the health and environmental benefits of a 2020 deadline will be significant, and the sector will be encouraged – and helped – to make the necessary investments, resulting in a cleaner atmosphere and a healthier environment.
- i voted for the report on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain marine fuels because the application of the new provisions will help to reduce environmental pollution caused by the burning of marine fuels with high sulphur content.
i believe that member states and the commission should promote the testing and development of new technologies, considering the possibility of creating a joint programme to reduce pollution from marine fuels, co-financed with industry and based on the principles of similar programmes such as the clean sky programme.
− europe must commit itself to the social market economy model, which leads to sustainable growth, jobs and a better quality of life for citizens.
the european commission must present a european action plan to stimulate sustainable economic growth and decent jobs.
we also call on the commission to present a detailed action plan with measures for a fully integrated and interconnected single energy market and to develop a strategy to address the impact of rising energy prices on the most vulnerable members of society.
− an ecological or sustainable economy is a system that conserves the productive capacity of ecosystems while creating a society in which the basic needs of all people are met.
equal participation in ecological politics and economics is needed to ensure that women's interests are taken into account as well as men's.
production and consumption generate emissions and forms of pollution that sooner or later will end up in our ecosystem.
the capacity of the ecosystem to absorb and manage emissions and to adapt to changing circumstances is finite.
once the absolute limit is reached, important ecosystem services are at risk of disappearing.
− the green economy is defined as a socially and ecologically sustainable economy, as social sustainability includes a social order based on gender equality and social justice, regardless of gender, ethnicity, colour, religion, sexual orientation, disability or political opinion.
member states must recognise the importance of the essential role women play in raising and educating children and protecting the environment and adequately remunerate both informal and formal work.
− socially and ecologically, the green economy is a sustainable economy, which includes a social order based on both gender equality and social justice, regardless of gender, ethnicity, colour, religion or political opinion.
in this context, i believe that, at european level, environmental policies at all levels must include a gender perspective in defining, implementing and monitoring the promotion of gender mainstreaming as an instrument of good governance in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, but also in strengthening gender equality and social justice.
i also believe that member states should promote specific research and studies on women and gender equality in the green economy so that the gender perspective is included in environmental protection and environmental impact assessment studies.
these policies are needed to be then specifically integrated into sustainable development programmes at regional, national and international level, thus eliminating the disparities existing in different areas of the eu.
− i voted for the resolution on the role of women in the green economy because i believe that a sustainable economy means an economy that creates decent jobs and sustainable communities and allows for a fairer distribution of resources.
we call on member states to ensure equal representation of women in political decision-making bodies, as well as in government-appointed bodies and institutions dealing with the definition, planning and implementation of environmental, energy and green jobs policies, so that a gender perspective is integrated into these policies.
i would stress that young people have a key role to play in achieving the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in terms of employment, research and innovation, climate and energy, education and poverty reduction.
i believe that the union's policy in this area must aim at creating an environment which favours the development of legal content accessible to all, innovation and creativity.
moreover, education systems in the member states need to focus on developing digital skills and integrating new technologies into curricula so that future generations are aware of the importance of adopting a civic attitude in the digital environment.
online use can represent a real opportunity for better dissemination and distribution of european works, in particular audiovisual works, provided that their legal provision can develop in an environment of fair competition.
a second hurdle has been the rapid evolution of the international environment, including the one in our direct neighbourhood.
the report is inevitably a snapshot of the situation at a certain moment in time, while the international environment is in a state of flux.
the trade measures to be applied should not be limited to imports of 'stocks of common interest' and 'associated species' but should apply to all imports of fish and fishery products of any species from countries that allow non-sustainable fishing.
mutual recognition can only work effectively in a climate of trust, where not only judicial authorities but also all parties to criminal proceedings can have confidence in the adequacy of the rules in each member state and can be sure that they are correctly applied.
i voted in favour of this report because the european union's efforts to achieve sustainable fishing activities are not enough, as long as they are individual.
the union must also encourage third countries to follow its example and pursue sustainable fishing activities.
these effects are felt beyond the borders of the exploiting state, with long-term consequences for marine biodiversity.
the adoption of such measures should be preceded by an environmental, commercial, economic and social impact assessment.
the use of an eco-label for fishery products provides clear information on the environmental sustainability of these products.
the sustainability of the fisheries sector has thus been put on the back burner.
some 60% of european fish stocks are exploited beyond the maximum sustainable yield.
estimates are required on the sustainable exploitation of these stocks.
this type of agreement aims to remove technical barriers to trade while also protecting health, safety and the environment.
mutual recognition agreements aim to remove technical barriers to trade while protecting each party's health, safety and environmental objectives.
i also believe that health, the environment and safety are particularly important in this context and must be taken into account and protected as much as possible.
mutual recognition agreements aim to remove technical barriers to trade while protecting each party's health, safety and environmental objectives.
the eu has a special responsibility not only to ensure sustainable fishing but also to protect european fishermen, who are subject to strict and costly rules.
in order to ensure that the measures are environmentally sound and sustainable, effective, proportionate and compatible with international standards, the commission needs to assess the commercial, environmental, economic and social effects of these measures in both the short and long term, as well as the administrative burden associated with their implementation.
i therefore recommend that the commission take steps to ensure that these organisations have well-defined objectives and only carry out sustainable fisheries and aquaculture activities.
the regulation aims at ensuring that the common organisation of the markets contributes to the objectives set out in the regulation on the common fisheries policy and in particular to providing market incentives in support of more sustainable production practices, to improving the market position of union products, to developing production strategies to adapt to structural changes and short-term fluctuations in markets, and to strengthening the commercial potential of union products.
− terrorism, organised crime, the proliferation of regional conflicts, security of energy supply or climate change pose security threats.
the eu should further develop its foreign policy objectives and promote its values and interests throughout the world, with the overall aim of contributing to peace, human security, solidarity, the rule of law, conflict prevention and the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, sustainable development, transparent and accountable governance, free and fair trade and poverty eradication.
− according to the latest commission report, the current common fisheries policy has not achieved its objectives in terms of conservation and sustainable exploitation of eu fisheries resources.
moreover, fishing capacity has not been adapted to the available fisheries resources, as shown by the alarming figures: over 60% of fish stocks in european waters are fished above the maximum sustainable yield.
the creation of closed areas where fishing activities are prohibited is also important to achieve effective results in conserving biological aquatic resources and the marine ecosystem.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the reporting obligations under regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
i believe that the cfp must apply the precautionary approach to fisheries management and ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine biological resources, in order to restore and maintain populations of all harvested species at levels close to those capable of ensuring maximum sustainable yield.
we call on the commission to take action to adopt long-term management plans for all eu fisheries and to use the ecosystem approach as the basis for all such plans, with well-defined harvesting control objectives and rules, which will play a fundamental role in each plan.
the commission, together with the member states, must ensure that the union has access to diverse energy sources so that european citizens can enjoy uninterrupted access to affordable energy.
the proper functioning of the internal energy market contributes to the security of energy supply of the european union, which is essential for the economic and social development of the european union and for its competitiveness.
in view of the need to optimise the functioning of the internal energy market, this decision establishes a mechanism for the exchange of information between member states and the commission on intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy.
i believe that the commission should provide member states with a guide to the approach to the negotiations in order to ensure compliance with union law, solidarity between member states and the guarantee of energy supply.
it is also important that, at the request of a member state, the commission provides support and technical assistance in the process of negotiating and concluding intergovernmental agreements with third countries in the field of energy.
europe is currently dependent on energy imports, for which it pays some eur 400 billion a year.
to reduce vulnerabilities and increase energy security, greater diversity of sources and supply networks is needed.
at the same time, improvements in energy security help to strengthen the union's role in foreign policy.
as for romania, my country has an advantage both from its geographical and geopolitical position, because the black sea has a major potential in achieving european energy security, representing a gateway to the union's regional economic and political bloc.
the commission should consider the possibility of developing similar macro-regional strategies in other regions where such a measure would lead to sustainable and sustainable economic growth.
it is therefore important to ensure the protection of the ecological balance and biodiversity in the region, and to ensure close cooperation between the coastal states in the prevention and management of risks in the atlantic, in particular in the event of accidents, natural disasters and criminal activities, including in the area of security, maritime surveillance and civil protection.
it should focus on connecting the atlantic region to the european continent, interconnecting transport, energy and communications networks, and developing urban and rural areas.
we believe that the atlantic highways improve trade relations, stimulate economic activity in ports, encourage tourism and contribute to reducing co2 emissions.
marine renewable energy is also a future industrial supply chain, enabling the eu to combat climate change and energy dependence, increase energy sustainability in atlantic regions and achieve the europe 2020 goals.
we stress the need to increase the volume, efficiency and competitiveness of short sea shipping in the atlantic ocean as an innovative and environmentally friendly way of improving and diversifying trans-european transport networks, encouraging the activity of small and peripheral ports and contributing to the reduction of road congestion and emissions.
- i voted for amendments nos 2 and 3, which call for greater transparency in future energy agreements to be negotiated or being negotiated between member states and third countries.
this could contribute to coherence between member states, compliance with union law and the security of energy supply of the union.
consumers are also increasingly aware of agriculture's contribution to sustainability, climate change, food security, biodiversity, animal welfare and water scarcity.
they are an important factor in the recovery of the economy, also taking into account the european union's major objective of being the world leader in the efficient use of energy resources.
another important aspect concerns social and environmental standards, which must be fully respected in the implementation of the agreement.
on the other hand, banana production imported into the union from colombia or peru must benefit from adequate and decent wage, social and environmental conditions in order to avoid dumping to the detriment of european producers.
ensuring decent working conditions for all must be a top priority for this sector, bananas imported from colombia or peru must be produced under fair wage, social and environmental conditions so that union producers do not become victims of dumping.
the union's policies and budget should make a substantial contribution to revitalising sustainable growth in the union and addressing major societal challenges such as resource scarcity, climate change, the relocation of european industry, underinvestment in education, health, research and the lack of job opportunities.
this will bring important benefits both in terms of economic growth and job creation and for the environment.
the completion of the single european sky will lead to a more sustainable aviation system; i therefore believe that the progress made so far must be sustained and continued as rapidly as possible.
the successful functioning of the internal market is also not possible without adequate infrastructure, the connecting europe facility being an important step towards the creation of the single energy and digital markets and towards enhancing the free movement of goods, services and people.
but we need not only measures to stop the vicious cycle of rising interest rates, falling ratings and liquidity problems, but also a framework that forces the banking sector to be sustainable and accountable in the face of speculative temptations.
the eu's competitiveness and its economic and social development depend on the provision of modern and efficient transport, energy and communications infrastructure and information technology.
in this regard, the connecting europe facility will address bottlenecks and missing cross-border links in trans-european transport infrastructure, complete the internal energy market and achieve a fully functional digital single market by 2015, and promote research and innovation, as well as improve the competitiveness of eu industry, as these will help to boost economic growth and create and retain jobs across the union.
i voted in favour of the interim report on the procedure for approving the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework because it promotes a stable, sound and sustainable budget, guaranteeing growth and jobs, but also a high standard of living and security for europe's citizens.
the union budget, and in particular cohesion policy expenditure, is an important tool that must remain at the disposal of the member states in order to overcome the current economic crisis and to achieve the objectives of strategy 2020. if we want a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe, we must certainly allocate sufficient resources to cohesion policy, at least at the same level as that agreed for the current programming period.
member states must continue to work to exploit the potential for sustainable growth.
the union is looking for solutions, including financial support, to mitigate the effects of the crisis and to develop various projects - investments in strategic areas for growth and job creation, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, transport networks - to name just a few examples - and as such it is desirable that we do not reach a situation where the eu cannot meet its commitments and reimburse legitimate payment claims.
that is why i voted to increase the commitment and payment appropriations for the cip innovation and entrepreneurship programme and the cip intelligent energy - europe programme.
i welcome the future connecting europe facility (cef) and the financial allocation proposed by the commission to it to improve europe's transport, energy and digital networks.
madam president, regarding the discharge for the european environmental agency, i asked colleagues to refuse discharge.
finally i would like to say that it was bad management to let the executive director decide whether a discharge is given and not the agency on environmental issues, and i ask for the resignation of this executive director.
it is also important that this quality of change is better directed, certainly towards social protection systems, towards governance, but also towards sustainable economic growth, because recently, in an analysis of the situation of aid to africa, there has been increasing talk of a fatal aid that europe is giving to africa.
this can ensure the sustainable development of states in difficulty.
in addition to defense and cooperation within nato, the us and romania have committed to deepening ties in key areas such as energy security and the it sector.
other investors, like chevron, have also entered the energy sector.
the protection of the environment and forests must remain a constant concern for the union.
this update was proposed by member states and parties in order to facilitate trade, in particular the import of forest reproductive material, and to respond promptly to market demand, in particular for fast growing energy/biomass tree plantations.
the creation of the single european sky is a key mechanism to overcome future challenges and should generate sufficient capacity to manage the increasing number of flights registered on the continent, in order to reduce delays, increase safety and cost efficiency, and to reduce the environmental impact.
a more efficient european airspace will, on the other hand, bring additional economic gains at european level, including benefits in terms of growth, job creation and the environment.
in this context, air traffic management (atm) is essential for air transport operations, while addressing the challenges of competitiveness, safety and sustainability.
as an increasing number of european citizens use the internet to purchase or validate travel authorisations, this process should be encouraged, precisely because of its benefits in terms of increasing the speed of boarding procedures, as well as its tangible benefits in terms of environmental protection.
− following the requests of the european parliament, the european environment agency (eea) became more involved in 2010 in actions to improve its communication with the public and the media, such as the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes), the international year of biodiversity through the green façade project, the eye on earth platform.
the european environment agency has thus used the union funds in the thematic manner provided for by the european legislator and the european budgetary authority.
as renewable energy production seems to be migrating from europe, i believe that urgent action is desirable.
i believe that in the future, eu efforts should focus on supporting sustainable growth, which does not harm the environment, biodiversity and natural resources or increase vulnerability to natural disasters.
eu development policy should therefore promote a 'green' economy that is able to create jobs without causing undesirable effects on the environment.
they also believe that actions to improve the capacity of developing countries to cope with the consequences of climate change should be encouraged and supported.
− the european union and its member states are world leaders in innovative finance for the financial sector, in combating climate change or in development.
− our efforts, as representatives of the citizens of the european union, are to guarantee their rights and freedoms at the level of the union, but also to offer them solutions for sustainable and equitable development, reducing the disparities between the social classes in each country and inequalities of all kinds.
despite the difficult environment in which they operate, smes have retained their role as the backbone of the european economy.
finally, creating a business environment supportive of the sustainable development of smes is fundamental.
for these reasons, and in the current economic context, i believe that trade between the eu and the us must be better used to stimulate smart, strong and sustainable growth.
nevertheless, there are still some problems that persist in the relations between the eu and us, and which also affect the economic climate, one of the most important being the visa-free restrictions for the citizens of four eu countries.
trade and foreign investment between the eu and the us must be better used to drive smart, strong, sustainable, balanced, inclusive and resource-efficient growth, which eventually leads to job creation.
we stress the importance of further strengthening transatlantic economic relations while upholding eu interests in areas such as environmental, animal health and welfare, food safety, cultural diversity, workers' rights, consumer rights, financial services, public services and geographical indications.
the single market in transport, energy and communications requires the elimination of disparities between the transport, energy and communications infrastructures of the states that joined the eu on 1 may 2004 and those of the other member states.
for these reasons, i believe that a policy on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources is necessary.
− i voted in favour of the report and support those scientifically based measures which are genuinely necessary for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
− i voted in favour of the report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy (cfp).
i also believe that the conclusion of this agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova will make a decisive contribution both to the successful development of the union's initiatives in this part of europe, such as the eastern partnership, and to the establishment of the necessary climate of cooperation and mutual trust.
they should promote the quality of food products and, at the same time, stimulate the value of sustainable rural development.
i welcome the existence of the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs, as it will contribute to improving the conditions of bilateral trade, promoting quality along the food chain and stimulating sustainable rural development.
i voted in favour of the eu-moldova agreement on the protection of geographical indications as it will benefit producers and traders in the republic of moldova and the eu and improve the conditions of bilateral trade by ensuring quality along the food chain, thus stimulating sustainable rural development.
the main goal of the agreement is to promote trade, investment and harmonious economic relations between the parties and also to encourage their sustainable economic development.
the european union and the republic of moldova shall pursue the mutual protection of geographical indications with a view to improving the conditions of bilateral trade, promoting quality along the food chain and stimulating sustainable rural development.
− in achieving the europe 2020 goals of sustainable and inclusive growth, we must focus all our efforts on ensuring the functioning of the single market as a key element in winning the full trust of citizens and their sense of belonging to the european union project.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the main concerns of european citizens and businesses with the functioning of the single market as it is a key element for achieving the objectives of sustainable growth, job creation and social inclusion.
in addition, in the context of the march 2011 disaster, attention should be paid to energy cooperation and increased access to markets for environmental goods and services.
− i fully support the proposal to create transnational twinning partnerships between natura 2000 areas and other similar agricultural ecological management areas in developing countries, with the aim of exchanging know-how on the management of these areas by local authorities, local leaders and local farming communities; i also support the establishment of a transnational twinning centre for learning and developing know-how between natura 2000 areas and similar areas in third countries.
the report provides the framework for positive, sustainable growth through cooperation and transparency in a variety of fields.
eu nations must support each other as we move forward toward better infrastructure and sustainability.
fishing and farming must be ecologically sustainable in order to ensure future growth.
by creating accountable and sustainable policies we will be able both to increase funding and to ensure that eu funds are used efficiently in development projects.
firstly, as regards the structure of the market, commission and parliament, we want all forms of negotiation, whether multilateral or bilateral, to take place in a transparent environment.
it was originally designed to help identify cases where member states' budgets are not sustainable and the possible negative side effects.
moreover, we should have a consistent and sustainable approach if we are to make progress.
i stress that the continued development of innovative financial instruments will help to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
that is why i advocate that innovative financial instruments be used to generate smart and sustainable economic growth.
as you know, the communication on the eu danube strategy was presented by the commission in april 2011. we based it on four pillars: connecting the danube region, protecting the environment, building prosperity and strengthening the danube region.
the joint research centre is currently setting up a danube-wide set of data to improve decision-making for these actions and the gathering of environmental data.
the resulting benefits contribute to the competitiveness of the danube regions, support sustainability objectives by reducing road transport and create employment opportunities.
only through constant exchange of experience, scientific assessments of pollution situations and strong political will will it be possible to implement a correct management of possible cases of accidental pollution or large-scale disasters across borders.
it contributes to identifying coordinated solutions to environmental, transport and economic development problems in the region.
the development by the european union of a multi-field strategy for this region is important not only from the perspective of the complex areas addressed environment, transport, economy or governance.
protecting the environment, developing a more interconnected public transport system or building an integrated and efficient system of environmental protection requires, first of all, institutional strengthening of the cooperation process, together with the extension of good practices in the areas concerned.
the danube is of paramount importance for europe's biodiversity.
many areas are polluted, and faulty sewage systems and construction have increased the risk of flooding and compounded the problems caused by pollution.
russian export duties on many raw materials have been capped and will be reduced for key inputs like wood, and we will have a more predictable regulatory environment for our investment in russia.
what is needed is a thorough reform of the domestic economy and business environment.
i support the idea of including in the new agreement a substantial and legally binding chapter on energy, with a view to ensuring a transparent and non-discriminatory energy market, and a chapter on sustainable development, through which we encourage russia to respect both human and workers' rights and international environmental standards.
i consider the long-term strategic partnership between the european union and russia to be important and stress the importance of strengthening the energy partnership.
the intensification of energy cooperation represents an opportunity for both sides to deepen economic and trade cooperation in an open and transparent market, taking full account of the union's need to diversify transport routes and energy suppliers.
this cooperation must be based on transparency, equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment, and a legally binding framework guaranteeing the reliable and regular supply of energy to all eu member states, based on equal standards.
i believe that the main objective should be an open and transparent energy market between the european union and russia.
we must use this influence and urge cambodia to change its election process and create an environment suitable for a free and fair election.
in order to correct these, the present sustainable development and cooperation strategy should include the proposals outlined in the amendments to the commission’s draft.
it is good that the negotiations on the extension of the energy star programme have been successfully concluded.
the program established by the united states environmental protection agency is designed to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment.
so far, it has proved effective in its objectives and targets, and has succeeded in steering the office equipment market towards greater energy efficiency.
− the conclusion of a new five-year agreement between the european union and the united states on the energy star programme, which provides for the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment, bodes well for both parties.
− i voted for the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the signing and conclusion of the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european union on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment, as new applications and functions emerge.
office equipment will be responsible for an increasing share of energy consumption in the future.
the us-eu agreement aims to maximise energy savings and environmental benefits by stimulating the supply and demand of energy-efficient products.
to this end, a common set of energy efficiency specifications and a common logo will be used to define coherent targets for manufacturers and thus optimise the impact of their individual efforts on the supply and demand of these products.
according to the agreement, the common specifications should be formulated so as to cover no more than 25% of the most energy-efficient models for which data are available at the time of specification.
efforts will also be made to ensure that energy-efficient products can be identified by consumers by the presence of the label on the market.
on the other hand, energy is one of the most delicate subjects when it comes to negotiations with russia.
i therefore consider it necessary to include a legally binding chapter on energy in the new eu-russia agreement.
russia's accession to the wto can facilitate trade flows between the eu and russia, while boosting economic growth and job creation on both sides, and the conclusion of a new agreement is seen as an additional opportunity to contribute to a strengthened partnership between both sides, while promoting sustainable development in their common neighbourhood.
forced to live in a foreign environment, children can develop social and linguistic disorders that manifest themselves over the medium to long term.
digital education needs to be a priority in schools so that children are aware of the dangers lurking in the virtual environment and that could affect their lives irreversibly: violent content, racism, pornography, online harassment.
since an attitude is defined as a predisposition that is formed over time and is used in judging a context, a young person's attitude to the internet is formed over time and is very likely to be the result of the attitude of friends, family or educators to this environment.
i believe that social enterprises provide the necessary link between the private environment, which is focused on maximising profit, and the public environment, which must respond to social needs.
in order to ensure simplification of the legal framework and a high level of operational safety, occupational safety and environmental protection, the technical requirements and environmental rules applicable to vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units should be harmonised with regard to the type-approval of both forestry and agricultural vehicles and two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles.
i therefore welcome the simplification of the current legal framework and in this context i believe that more importance should be given to environmental, safety and market surveillance issues.
the technical requirements for the type-approval of agricultural vehicles with regard to numerous safety and environmental elements have been harmonised at union level in order to ensure a high level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection.
we must ensure that the labour market improves, growth is stimulated and that an improvement in employment opportunities is sustainable.
currently these vehicles account for a high level of pollution.
i welcome this proposal because it sets out better safety standards such as multi-standard anti-lock brakes along with tougher emission standards to reduce the environmental impact.
this will ensure that these vehicles become safer for their operators and friendlier for the environment, and lives will be saved.
furthermore, harmonisation will foster occupational and vehicle safety as well as environmental protection.
i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to ensure a high level of road safety and environmental protection.
madam president, we need a favourable climate for social enterprises and innovation.
i voted in favour of this report because economic and monetary union must lead to sustainable growth and high employment.
we need a good climate for entrepreneurs and investment, and creating jobs and ensuring decent conditions is a key element in overcoming the current problems.
i think that a sustainable governance policy for offshore activities is more than welcome.
i also want to stress the importance of maintaining an optimal ecological situation and avoiding tragic consequences in the future.
− i consider that the accession of the european union to the protocol on offshore activities is necessary to protect the marine and coastal environment of the mediterranean and to promote international cooperation towards the sustainable governance of offshore activities.
the aim of the 'offshore protocol' is to increase the safety of offshore exploration and exploitation activities and to protect the marine environment in the mediterranean sea.
- i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the eu's accession to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from the exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and the seabed.
the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, also known as the 'barcelona convention', was originally signed in barcelona in 1976 and amended in 1995. one of the barcelona convention protocols concerns the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and the seabed.
one of the objectives of the european union's environmental policy is to promote measures to solve regional environmental problems at international level.
with regard to the protocol on offshore activities, it is particularly important to take into account the high probability of transboundary environmental effects in the event of an accident in a semi-enclosed sea such as the mediterranean sea.
it is therefore necessary for the european union to take all necessary measures to support the safety of offshore exploration and exploitation activities and the protection of the marine environment in the mediterranean sea.
i consider the financial contribution provided for by the new protocol for the period 2013-2015 to be appropriate and believe that it will ensure a responsible and sustainable sectoral fisheries policy for greenland.
alongside ensuring the sustainability of public finances, member states should focus equally on helping the unemployed, especially those who have been unemployed for a long time, to re-enter the labour market, on creating sustainable and quality jobs for both women and men and on improving labour productivity.
− one of our main objectives, as representatives of the citizens of the european union, is to restore sustainable economic growth in europe.
with the unemployment rate continuing to rise, we must focus on reintegrating the unemployed into the labour market and creating new jobs that are sustainable and, most importantly, accessible to a wide variety of disadvantaged groups.
facilitating and focusing on social entrepreneurship and access to microfinance for vulnerable groups and those furthest from the labour market are key elements in the context of social investment, as they allow for the creation of new and sustainable jobs, often resulting in permanent changes in the business cycle.
institutional elements such as the strictness of health regulations, the rules on respect for the environmental impact and the high degree of innovation are all assets that should be used to support european farmers.
− i believe that the time has come to define more clearly a promotion policy for agricultural products and a strategy for promoting european tastes that stimulate and reward both the production of specific products included in quality programmes and farming practices that produce less co2 emissions, so as to protect biodiversity and maintain the quality of soils and water supplies.
the european union must try to export a sustainable agricultural model and its authentic traditional products.
− i very much welcome my colleague's report on the promotion measures for agricultural products, in particular the future direction of the promotion policy, which, as it states, would place particular emphasis on the promotion of traditional farming practices that preserve the quality of the land and water supply and are low in carbon dioxide emissions.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the promotion and information actions for agricultural products: a strategy to promote the tastes of europe, because i believe that the eu's policy of promoting agricultural products can contribute to the long-term competitiveness and sustainability of the agricultural and food sector.
the regulation aims to simplify the existing legal framework, reduce emissions from l-category vehicles, increase the overall level of safety and strengthen the rules on market surveillance.
whether we are talking about self-help organizations, private enterprises or cooperatives, it is clear that the social entrepreneurship system can compensate for the work of the private or state environment at multiple levels.
− social economy actors and enterprises are important drivers of economic growth and social innovation, as they offer the opportunity to create sustainable jobs and encourage the labour market integration of vulnerable groups.
moreover, it is very important to give the possibility to the youth to have an environment and the opportunity to start their one social business.
moreover, it is well known that social enterprises provide social services and they contribute to a sustainable employment, social innovation and the inclusion of vulnerable groups.
− i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the social entrepreneurship initiative building an ecosystem for the promotion of social enterprises in the economy and social innovation.
− we have reached the critical point where the sustainable development of the european union project can only be achieved through the effective use of simplified and transparent budgetary mechanisms, which restore economic and financial balance and citizens' confidence.
the european union's dependence on energy imports, in particular oil and, more recently, natural gas, is a major concern in the energy policy field, for reasons of security of energy supply.
the decline in primary natural gas production has led to an increase in the eu's dependence on primary energy imports, with over 60% of the gas the union consumes today being imported.
a study on geological resources published in may 2012 shows that natural gas could account for 25% of the world's energy resources.
according to the us government's energy information agency, european shale gas reserves amount to 18 000 billion cubic metres, a figure that is not negligible for the european continent.
of course, the environmental impact of the exploitation of these gases must be taken into account, but the technologies used today worldwide can allow efficient exploitation, including in terms of environmental protection.
if we look at it, there is no member state in the european union that is similar to another member state in terms of the tax regime for pollution, car registration taxes and so on, and these differences are obstacles to the development of the european automobile industry, obstacles to the single market.
in the united states, as in other countries, governments have given substantial aid to the automobile industry to innovate, to move to lower carbon dioxide cars.
the restructuring of the european steel industry, together with the increase in steel imports from third countries, not subject to the same stringent environmental regulations, led to job losses in europe.
i call on the commission and the member states to support the european steel industry to modernise, as it is only by becoming less polluting and more energy efficient that it can remain internationally competitive.
the report points to some of the most topical and sensitive areas subject to the citizens’ petition in the field of environment and fundamental rights, on which the commission and parliament are already working closely and will continue to exchange information and views.
the main topics covered by the petitions are: environmental protection, the internal market, fundamental rights, not coincidentally, because these are fundamental areas of the union.
as in previous years, the committee on petitions received a very large number of petitions concerning infringements of european environmental legislation.
in this context, i welcome commissioner potočnik's initiative to come up with an amendment to the directive on 'environmental impact assessment' and i would like to underline the contribution that the committee on petitions has made to this development.
also, an adequate support for achieving the eu 2020 targets and union objectives for climate, energy, resource-efficiency and biodiversity should be provided.
i also believe that in the european union, although there are relevant documents, i mean a few directives on the subject, the impact on the environment is crucial and i believe that any exploitation must be conditioned by the impact on the environment.
this has been seen in farms in the united states; there are a lot of analyses of the aggressive environmental impact in this area.
each member state has the right to choose its sources of energy supply.
i think there is no reason against the exploitation of shale gas as long as environmental standards are not violated, and there are currently no european environmental standards for shale gas.
i can accept that europe is not competitive in energy.
i can accept that prices and dependence on imports are high, but we must find a balance between the environmental impact and this need for energy resources.
recent studies, however, indicate that the environmental impact can be disastrous in the medium to long term.
however, in this report i welcomed the request that the european environment agency should carry out scientific expertise on this impact, because unfortunately many member states which could and are willing to exploit these shale gases do not have the technological capacity to investigate the environmental impact of the gases.
i voted for this report because europe needs alternative sources of energy.
i would stress that any discovery of resources would only be a continuation of romania's efforts to ensure its energy security.
if shale gas is discovered in the black sea area, romania will certainly enforce compliance with all environmental standards.
the environment, the internal market and taxation are the policy areas with the highest risk of non-compliance and account for 52% of all non-compliance findings.
− in order to have an objective view of shale gas and oil extraction, i believe it is important to monitor regulatory mechanisms and practices globally and to address concerns about the environmental effects of extraction.
regulation should aim to minimise the impact on the environment and to strike a reasonable balance based on scientific findings and a comprehensive analysis of risks and benefits.
the commission and the national competent authorities should continue to study the possible environmental effects, but from a scientific perspective and based on statistics covering reliable sources in the member states and worldwide.
− studies carried out at the request of the european commission clearly demonstrate that shale gas exploitation poses major risks to the environment and human health.
the commission must carry out without delay a detailed assessment of the impact on the environment and human health of the exploration and extraction of shale gas and take, as soon as possible and in accordance with the principles of the existing treaties, all necessary measures to review, supplement and extend the current eu legislation on the environment and health protection.
although shale gas may seem to be a solution to the current energy crisis, it is not a solution for the future.
efforts and investments should be channelled towards increasing the share of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
only 'clean' energy, based on 100% renewable energy, gives us a chance to protect our environment, climate, health and resources.
- i voted for the resolution on the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction activities, as shale gas exploitation requires a thorough examination of all effects (on the environment, public health and climate change) before further development of this technology.
i voted for amendment no 5, which, on the basis of the precautionary principle and the principle of preventive action, taking into account the risks and negative effects on the climate, the environment and health of hydraulic fracturing and the gaps identified in the regulatory framework in the eu for shale gas activities, urges member states not to authorise any new hydraulic fracturing operations in the eu.
− i voted in favour of the report on industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil.
of course shale gas has some environmental risk; this is why it is very important to have rules and follow them.
it is a big step that we need to take, taking into account all the environmental risks.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and shale oil.
we believe that no exploration or exploitation of shale gas should take place unless there are guarantees that there are no risks to the environment and to the surrounding communities.
i voted against paragraphs 15 and 27, which argued that shale gas contributes to the eu's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050. at present, there are no conclusive studies in this direction.
on the other hand, as regards the fields of application, it is worth noting the significant increase in the number of petitions submitted on environmental issues, which shows an intensification of citizens' concern in this regard, but at the same time, signals the existence of serious problems in the management of projects that cause damage to the environment.
we welcome the parliament's decision to develop a more practical and visible petition portal on its website, which will facilitate citizens' access to the petition process, provide them with information and allow them to present petitions in a more user-friendly environment that allows for the electronic signing of petitions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
kazakhstan could become one of the main alternative sources of energy supply to the union.
in the context of rising energy prices, we need to diversify our sources to prevent energy crises such as those of 2006 and 2009. a similar role is played by the nabucco and agri projects, which aim to strengthen the union's energy security, and kazakhstan could be involved in efforts to develop a trans-caspian energy supply route to europe.
it is cruel and barbaric and does not make for a balanced environment.
so i think we need to find a way to make sure that the states that have fewer units available can use them after 2012. but this must be done in a responsible manner and in a way that maintains an ambitious level of environmental protection.
through the objectives romania has undertaken in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, my country has demonstrated its commitment to combating climate change.
it can thus help countries to reach new levels of economic and social development and thus better meet the challenges of a rapidly changing environment.
i voted in favour of this report, although there are many things to be discussed in it, because, unfortunately, the energy security component is becoming an increasingly important component of our common security policy.
this energy security component is very much in play when the union is threatened by natural disasters.
i would also like to highlight an existing code of good practice on the environmental component and its influence on safety, namely the recently initiated eda 'go green' project, which focuses on the energy efficiency component.
mr president, climate change and natural disasters have an impact on global security, peace and stability.
therefore, we – as the european union – should take the effects of natural disasters and climate change into consideration in our external action strategies, policies and instruments.
however, do we need a special representative for climate security, or do we need a council working group on climate security, for this purpose?
i believe that climate security can and must be addressed with existing european policies.
i voted in favour of the report because, until now, climate change and its effects have been seen only from the economic and environmental perspective, but they also affect our security.
that is why i support studies on the impact of natural disasters and climate-related crises on international and european security.
the union and its member states must have capacities to respond to natural disasters caused by climate change.
but the union's leadership in this area should be strengthened by preventing them, and this can only be done through a responsible and sustainable environmental policy.
in this context, we should encourage the sustainability of fisheries and the conservation of marine biodiversity.
the union should aim to adopt harmonised and sustainable fisheries policies, and these should aim at improving cooperation with neighbouring countries.
i am convinced that the exploitation of fish stocks must be carried out with due regard for the quality of the final product, without however interfering more than is necessary with the ecosystem in which these fish live.
this will lead to increased transparency in the sector and contribute to environmental protection and sustainable fisheries development.
i believe that with the adoption of this report and the subsequent adoption of a regionalised legal framework, a sustainable way of fishing will be ensured.
the long term sustainability of the fishing sector – and with it our food security – will be ensured by effective, enforceable regulation, not laws with loopholes.
− climate change is undeniably real and represents the greatest environmental threat facing humanity.
the european union is making considerable efforts to reduce its member states' greenhouse gas emissions and to encourage other countries around the world to follow suit.
there is no silver bullet to stop climate change, and that is why i believe it is absolutely necessary to reach a consensus among all countries in their efforts to limit carbon dioxide emissions.
a new international agreement on reducing emissions is imperative.
in this respect, the eu must play a more active and influential role in international climate change negotiations.
all eu institutions need to further expand their climate diplomacy to make the eu's position on climate change policy clearer and to convince partners around the world, including china and the united states, that it is in everyone's interest to participate in an international agreement.
− the degradation of the earth's climate is a constant danger.
the durban platform recognises that climate change is an irreversible threat to people and the planet.
the eu delegation plays a vital role in the climate change negotiations - we are responsible for developing the basis for international agreements on environmental protection.
the doha climate change plan must be implemented by 2020: global emissions must be reduced by at least 50%.
recent studies show that climate change is getting worse, severely affecting the arctic region and especially the people living in poor countries.
i believe the top priority is to phase out fossil fuel subsidies and redirect funds to climate finance and r&d investment.
effective international forestry management will not only reduce these emissions, but will also help preserve biodiversity and the invaluable eco-services it provides.
we do not have to wait for a finalised international agreement on emissions before we put in place concrete measures which will deliver not only co2 reduction but also wider environmental, economic and societal benefits in the medium and long term.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the doha climate change conference.
climate change is an immediate and potentially irreversible threat to human societies and the planet, and therefore requires international action.
according to the international energy agency (iea), global energy demand is projected to increase by one third between 2010 and 2035. most of the gradual increase in energy demand and emissions will occur in emerging economies.
decarbonising the industry and energy sector through innovation would be an asset for the eu, given its pioneering role in the growing global market for energy goods and services.
i believe that ensuring policy coherence and mainstreaming environmental protection in development projects are essential to the effectiveness of the eu's climate change mitigation and adaptation strategy.
i stress the urgent need to avoid a funding gap beyond 2012 and to identify a way to secure climate finance for the period 2013-2020.
in writing.
climate change is also a major and multiplying threat to global security, peace and stability.
in today's globalised environment, the eu and its member states rely crucially on a secure information space, on the secure use of resilient and reliable information and technology and on connected infrastructures.
− global warming and the concrete problems generated by climate change are the great challenge of the century we are living in.
the fact that the subject of global warming is being debated is certainly a positive thing, but finding solutions to the problems facing the citizens of the european union is equally important.
the european union needs to develop not only its political capacity to act to prevent climate change, but also its institutional capacity to intervene to ensure the immediate safety of european citizens in the event of climate-related crises and natural disasters.
− in recent years, due to the problems of the economic and financial crisis, climate change has been relegated to the background.
i believe it is essential that the impact analysis of potential climate-related natural disasters is integrated into the csdp's operational strategies and plans and that we also need to have contingency plans for mitigating risks in the most exposed regions, taking into account the humanitarian principles set out in the lisbon treaty.
− i believe that the european union needs to consider the security implications of climate change in its dialogues with third countries such as india, and that a truly effective response will require a multilateral approach and joint investments with third countries.
i am glad the rapporteur shared the vision i expressed in my amendment on the need for a climate security envoy within the external action service.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of the common security and defence policy in the event of climate-related crises and natural disasters.
energy security is closely linked to climate change.
energy security must therefore be improved by reducing the eu's dependence on fossil fuels, such as those imported from russia via pipelines that may become vulnerable to disruption due to melting permafrost.
we call for the development of a strengthened policy on eu-generated renewable energy and energy efficiency, which will significantly reduce the union's dependence on external sources and consequently improve its security position.
i believe it is important to align the wider developments in the european defence industrial base with the specific requirements of climate-related crises and natural disasters.
they advocate that public procurement and capacity-building programmes allocate financial means, as well as other appropriate resources, to specific needs to respond to the effects of climate change and natural disasters.
i attach particular importance to eu-kazakhstan cooperation in the field of energy, in particular in terms of energy security and the development of the trans-caspian energy supply route, as well as attracting investment for projects of common and regional interest in the field of energy.
i believe it is important to support kazakhstan in adopting effective measures and programmes on radioactive waste and reducing radioactive pollution in the semey/semipalatinsk region.
concrete measures to support small-scale fisheries are needed to ensure that the reform of the common fisheries policy is responsible and sustainable.
i believe that the rules for implementing the future european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) should make it possible to finance actions, in particular in the following areas: improving safety, living and working conditions on board vessels; increasing economic and environmental sustainability; investing in more sustainable fishing gear; building specialised fishing ports with specific facilities for landing, storing and selling fishery products; promoting and marketing artisanal fisheries and extensive aquaculture products by creating a european label; supporting education and marketing campaigns to inform consumers and young people about the importance of small-scale fishing for consumers.
the aim of the association agreement between the european union and central america should be to promote sustainable development, social cohesion and regional integration.
the agreement should stimulate cooperation in sectors strategic to both regions, in particular on trade and sustainable development, scientific and technical cooperation in areas such as institution building, harmonisation of standards, customs procedures and statistics, intellectual property, service provision, public procurement, e-commerce, industrial development, sustainable resource management and support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
i stress the importance of facilitating the widespread adoption of factors such as legal certainty, a clear technical environment and open and interoperable solutions for electronic invoicing, based on legal requirements, commercial transactions and common technical standards.
at present 60% of e-commerce websites are unsuitable for cross-border on-line shoppers, and consumer and business confidence in the digital environment is still low.
the special procedure which led to the adoption of this report by the inta committee shows that colombia and peru are willing to address their human rights and environmental protection issues.
i believe that the assistance will support reform measures aimed at ensuring a more sustainable balance of payments and budgetary position in the short term.
− in a world where energy prices are becoming an increasingly important issue for individual consumers as well as for economic and industrial actors, energy efficiency must be one of the major objectives of public policies developed by the european union and the member states.
nor should we forget the commitments made by the european union to promote a sustainable development model, in line with the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
given that both these issues are very important to eu citizens, it is very important to consider promoting smart public policies to encourage energy efficiency that will not overburden european employers with regulations that will reduce their ability to compete in the global market.
− i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the energy star programme contributes to the achievement of the energy efficiency objectives of the member states and the union.
the energy star programme has contributed significantly to increased energy efficiency, which has resulted in reduced electricity consumption of office equipment.
− i believe that the objectives for improving energy efficiency must be respected, given the need to achieve a high level of consumer and environmental protection, which must be achieved at european union level.
− i voted in favour of amending the regulation on a community energy-efficiency labelling programme for office equipment.
it lays down rules for the union's energy-efficiency labelling programme for office equipment, the energy star programme, which contributes to the achievement of the energy efficiency targets of the member states and the union.
existing or new voluntary energy-efficiency labelling schemes for office equipment in member states may coexist with the energy star programme.
the commission shall establish a european union 'energy star office' (eueb), which shall review the implementation of the 'energy star' programme in the union and provide advice and assistance to the commission, as appropriate.
the commission shall assess the effectiveness of the 'energy star' programme in improving the energy efficiency of office equipment, creating new jobs and creating new market opportunities for manufacturers and shall examine alternative policy options, such as those provided for in union legislation.
moreover, through dialogue with the stakeholders, we would be able to give to consumers access to transparent and reliable information allowing them to compare more easily the prices, the quality and the sustainability of goods and services.
we must therefore ensure an environment conducive to sme development by facilitating access to capital, up-to-date information on export opportunities and reducing red tape.
− as the european digital agenda aims to make europe a global centre for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, i believe that the european union must make further efforts in international negotiations to draw up rules on digital freedom and behaviour in cyberspace.
the emsa is already recognised as a successful agency and the additional tasks set out in this recommendation will make a significant contribution to improving environmental disaster management and combating maritime piracy.
i welcome the reinforcement of the agency’s responsibilities in terms of preventing and tackling environmental disasters.
deepwater horizon’s catastrophic oil spill in the gulf of mexico or the gas leakage on the elgin-franklin platform in the north sea last march prove that monitoring the impact of oil pollution from offshore installations is essential.
emsa contributes to measures taken for maritime safety and security and the prevention of marine pollution from ships, including by monitoring and evaluating the application of relevant eu legislation.
the revised emsa regulation will extend the agency's remit to prevent and manage environmental disasters such as oil spills.
the agency will use the cleanseanet information system to monitor the impact of oil pollution from offshore installations.
another important aspect concerns social and environmental standards, which must be fully respected in the implementation of the agreement.
the challenges in central america with regard to human rights, social rights, labour rights and environmental rights require a close dialogue between the commission and civil society organisations in the union.
the commission will attach particular importance to the effective implementation of the trade and sustainable development commitments in the agreement, taking into account the specific information provided by the competent monitoring bodies of the core conventions of the international labour organisation and of the multilateral environmental agreements.
it will also bring a significant amount of money into budgets, which could be used to invest in research, energy efficiency, health or education, contributing to economic growth.
it is well known that animal health implies animal welfare, a certain minimum biological comfort, without which it is not possible to fully express vitality, including natural behaviour, appropriate to changes in the environment.
the measures envisaged include assistance in finding a job, vocational guidance, validation of experience and training for the labour market, assistance in finding a traineeship in a professional environment and a job, assistance in carrying out independent activities and mobility allowances.
− i have voted in favour of this report because it aims at updating existing measures in order to enable local authorities to improve the noise climate around airports in the union within the international framework of the icao’s balanced approach on noise management.
additional noise reduction measures should be developed following a systematic environmental monitoring and control process and should be based on a conservative approach, aiming at the prompt identification of necessary management and/or operational monitoring-based corrective measures.
the airport operator must allow the choice of the most cost-effective noise reduction measures, taking into account health, economic and social aspects, in accordance with the 'balanced approach', so as to ensure the sustainable development of the airport and the capacity of the air traffic management network in a 'gate-to-gate' perspective.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the regulation on the european statistical programme 2013-2017 because the implementation of eu policies requires comparable and reliable statistical information on the social, economic and environmental situation in the eu, as well as its components at national and regional level.
in order to avoid stress and other negative effects that animals may experience during transport and to reduce economic, social and environmental costs, i consider that animals should be slaughtered as close as possible to the place where they were raised.
− it is well known that animal health implies animal welfare, a certain minimum biological comfort, without which full expression of vitality, including natural behaviour, appropriate to changes in the environment is not possible.
the new framework for negotiations with russia must also include a chapter on energy, one of the most sensitive but also most important issues for the european union.
although negotiations on a substantive and legally binding chapter are currently at an impasse, the european commission must make every effort to ensure that the principles of transparency, free competition, reciprocity and non-discrimination in the energy sector are respected by russia.
you know that building deep and sustainable democracy is a long process which requires hard work, commitment and stamina as well as patience – domestically and internationally.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
economic recovery and stronger economic growth are necessary to create jobs and prosperity and are essential to make member states' public finances sustainable.
the transition to a sustainable economy with efficient use of resources and low carbon emissions is of crucial importance for maintaining the long-term competitiveness of european industries.
in this respect, i recommend: implementing a new action plan on the sustainable competitiveness of the construction sector and, by implication, the steel sector; developing measures to attract new foreign direct investment; ensuring a level playing field; and, last but not least, avoiding potential abuses of a dominant market position.
the main challenges are related to the obligation to reduce emissions and costs, and the need to maintain a skilled workforce.
furthermore, climate change and new environmental legislation are other issues to consider.
this agreement is very important, especially for romania, in terms of good neighbourly relations and economic cooperation with russia, especially in the context of the current economic and energy crisis.
it is important to promote the eu-russia strategic partnership in order to address global challenges such as non-proliferation, the fight against terrorism, the peaceful resolution of protracted or new conflicts on the basis of the principles of the un charter and applicable international law, security of energy supply, climate change and poverty reduction.
i consider it important to promote the strategic partnership between the eu and russia in order to face global challenges such as non-proliferation, the fight against terrorism, the peaceful settlement of protracted or new conflicts on the basis of the principles of the united nations charter and applicable international law, the security of energy supply, the arctic dimension, climate change and poverty reduction.
we recommend the inclusion of a substantial, legally binding chapter on energy, with the aim of guaranteeing the eu's reliable energy supply in an economically efficient manner.
we call for such an energy partnership to be based on the principles of transparency, fair competition, elimination of monopolistic behaviour, reciprocity and non-discrimination and to ensure that the principles of the energy charter treaty become an integral part of the new agreement.
− the european union is one of the most important global actors in the fight against climate change and environmental protection.
at the same time, the sustainable development of the european union depends crucially on the ability of the institutions and the member states to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in view of the increasingly serious impact of the economic crisis on member states and european societies, it is essential to take measures to increase the competitiveness of the steel industry and to create a solid basis for sustainable development.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because i too am concerned about the impact on the health of the local population of dioxin emissions from the taranto steelworks.
although parts of the plant have already been closed, further efforts are needed to reduce dioxin emissions.
these have a negative impact not only on the local population but also on the environment.
a lack of modernisation in steel plants from different european locations leads to harmful emissions and dangerous effects on the local population’s health.
the member states should also support modernisation of plants that comply with eu environmental law, in order to re-establish an ecological balance.
only when we start encouraging competitiveness and sustainability will the steel industry grow again.
− i voted for the parliament's resolution on a new sustainable and competitive steel industry (based on a petition received), as the petitioners expressed deep concern about the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steelworks in taranto, which have had and continue to have a significant, negative and lasting impact on the health of the local population.
parts of the ilva steelworks have recently been closed by the italian authorities and the authorities and the current owners of the plant have an obligation to ensure that harmful emissions are drastically reduced.