economic, environmental, demographic, employment and other problems.
the success of the un climate conference in durban can perhaps be attributed to the fact that we have agreed, that we will agree.
it seems that the delegation of the russian union was not sufficiently prepared to push its agenda and to get countries such as the united states, russia, china and india, brazil, to actively participate in global climate protection strategies, and i sincerely regret that.
at the turn of november and december last year, a conference on climate change was held in durban, south africa.
as i said last year, this objective is also one of the european union's top priorities in environmental matters.
on the one hand, the durban conference paved the way for a joint legally binding agreement to reduce the increase in greenhouse gas emissions and to keep the global average temperature rise below 1.5 degrees celsius, or the two-degree limit.
but most importantly, we have found a compromise between the world's largest emitters and the united states, because only together can we find a way forward on climate change.
inadequately treated or even untreated waste electrical and electronic equipment poses a significant threat to the environment and the health of people living in the european union.
the rapidly increasing volumes of this waste require a rapid response, including the adoption of modern and responsible legislation to encourage increased separate collection and recycling.
sustainable production is closely linked to the development of innovation and the intelligent reuse of already available resources.
i am convinced that simplifying the registration and authorisation of biocidal products must lead above all to ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment in which they live.
the safety of handling biocidal products, especially in the professional user environment, is also a serious related issue, the solution of which will have to continue to be monitored very closely.
given that we cannot really keep the prices of energy, machinery, blood products, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds or water stable in the long term, i have no illusions that we can succeed in this endeavour.
in an open market environment, higher input and production costs are always justified to be reflected in the production price of the product concerned.
therefore, i expect that we will... (the member's speech was suspended)
i think that 90 to 115 kg per person of food wasted per year is a good enough reason for food waste to become a political priority.
continuing at the current rate of waste in the agri-food chain is not only intolerable in the long term and irresponsible towards the poorest sections of the population, but also has negative effects on the environment and brings high losses to businesses and the economy.
the obligation for manufacturers to indicate the minimum shelf life and the date of use has caused 18% of food to end up as waste, simply because people do not consider it safe.
these nonprofit organizations are working to replace food waste with food distribution to those who need it most.
in the last 40 years, the world's food waste has increased by 50 percent.
producing food that we don't consume is a high cost of energy and natural resources (especially water), and greenhouse gas emissions.
in addition to the environmental damage caused by food production, the costs of waste treatment and disposal must be taken into account.
the fight against food waste must become a priority in the european political agenda.
the commission, the council and the member states must take concrete measures to halve food waste by 2025. we need to inform citizens not only about the causes and consequences of waste but also about ways to reduce it.
one of the fastest growing waste streams in the european union is that of old electrical equipment.
to prevent environmental and health damage, we must strive to ensure proper collection.
impact assessments show that 85% of such waste is already collected within the eu member states, but only 33% of it is properly treated.
this includes the selective collection of waste.
i agree with commissioner potočnik that in the recent situation, where many countries of the world have been suffering from food shortages, the food waste produced in europe is morally, economically and environmentally irresponsible.
above all, i think that people should be better informed, not only on the causes and effects of waste, but also on ways of reducing it.
i support parliament’s request to declare 2013 the european year against food waste, which would serve as a key information and awareness-raising tool on this important issue.
the benefits of these harmonised rules are clear in the areas of road safety, environmental protection and trade.
the benefits of such harmonised rules are tangible in the areas of road safety, environmental protection and trade.
its current 190 member states cooperate in the fields of aviation safety, security, air traffic management and environmental protection.
−directive 2002/96/ec on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) was adopted on 27 january 2003 and entered into force on 13 february 2003. member states were required to transpose the requirements of the directive by 13 august 2004. since the adoption of the directive, the causes of the problems and the reasons for collecting and recycling weee have not changed.
experience with the implementation of the weee directive in the early years has shown technical, legal and administrative problems resulting in unintentionally costly efforts by market players and administrations, continued environmental damage, low levels of innovation in waste collection and treatment, unequal conditions or even distortions of competition and unnecessary administrative burden.
the commission is committed to creating a better regulatory environment that is at the same time simple, understandable, effective and legally enforceable.
the specific objectives of the review of the weee directive were therefore to: reduce administrative costs while maintaining a level of environmental protection; implement the directive through enhanced compliance and reduced system abuse; limit the environmental impacts of the collection, treatment and recovery of weee to the level where the greatest net benefits to society are achieved.
europe is concerned about environmental protection on the european continent, but also elsewhere.
electronic waste in industrialised countries is growing three times faster than conventional waste, a result of the rapid pace of technological innovation and the short lifespan of many electronic products.
efficient management of electrical and electronic waste is a huge opportunity to increase the amount of waste collected.
we spend most of our time and energy dealing with the consequences.
we see a huge amount of electrical and electronic waste, which is in many cases very toxic; we also see that additional raw materials are needed to produce new electronics.
we think it's fair that the cost of collecting and treating electrical and electronic waste is borne by the producer and ultimately by the buyer of the product.
so i think that until producers and then consumers start to see recycling as a cost-comparable item to significantly extend the life of products, our efforts to use electrical and electronic waste will have limited results.
− protecting the environment and working towards a more sustainable and greener agriculture is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union.
manufacturers must therefore maintain the same standards in protecting human health and the environment.
the competitive environment is improving and this has a positive effect on prices.
i believe that farmers need to be supported in improving their agronomic and environmental performance in order to be able to cope with the new climate, environmental and economic challenges they will face.
the greening measures are likely to require farmers to reintegrate the externalized production costs associated with better management of biodiversity, water and soil nutrients and support should be provided for this purpose.
however, it is assumed that these initial costs will bring long-term benefits to farmers, such as resilience to climate instability, healthier and more fertile soils and less susceptibility to disease.
− if you have the strategic importance of agriculture in ensuring food security in the european union requires that the member states and the commission take effective and prompt measures and incentives for its sustainable development and competitiveness.
the sector directly contributes to the europe 2020 strategy objectives of ensuring smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
− food waste has become such a global problem that it is present at all stages of the agri-food chain.
food waste forms a parallel chain with the production chain and leads to a number of negative externalities.
the issue of food waste is at odds with the fundamental issue of food security, which is seriously threatened by a range of factors, including limited natural resources in relation to the growing world population and insufficient access to food for the poorest population groups.
the fight against food waste must become a priority in the european political agenda.
the commission, the council and the member states should endeavour to adopt strategies and concrete measures aimed at reducing food waste throughout the supply chain, while at the same time making efforts to raise awareness of the problem among the general public with a view to seeking a remedy.
it is necessary that citizens are informed not only about the causes and consequences of waste but also about the ways to reduce it.
in this context, the call for 2013 to be declared the european year against food waste appears to be an important tool to raise awareness and to raise awareness of this important issue.
− food waste is now so widespread that it must be considered a global problem.
the issue of food waste is at odds with the fundamental problem of food supply, as the world's population grows, and with it the limited access to food for the poorest.
not to mention the high environmental costs of producing food that is not consumed.
the causes of waste, however, are not always the same.
these data clearly show that the amount of food produced today should be reused for food purposes rather than simply thrown away like other waste.
the fight against food waste must be a priority on the european political agenda.
we need to develop a concrete strategy to halve food waste across the entire food supply chain by 2025. i believe it is extremely important to educate citizens not only about the causes and consequences of waste but also about ways to reduce it.
russia’s internal evolution will have major implications for our bilateral relations in terms of political dialogue, trade, visa policy, human rights and possibly also the broader security environment in europe.
i think that relations between the european union and the bric countries should be developed more deeply and, in particular, coordinated by treaties so that cooperation is covered not only from the economic and financial point of view but also from the point of view of promoting development or protecting the environment.
as sport also has a social and educational function, as it develops in people a sense of fair play, teamwork in a multicultural environment and a sense of belonging, i will support this report because it has many excellent ideas and initiatives and also a budget line for this common task.
waste management is a very sensitive issue from the public's point of view.
it is therefore pointless for the european commission to monitor the compliance of individual countries with the waste management directives.
the conclusions of the commission's report from the beginning of last year showed us that several eu countries do not pay due attention to environmental protection and waste management.
waste treatment, if well organised, can be a profitable business, and recycling helps us to save a lot of money on the environment.
as it turns out, we will therefore have to make a much greater effort to put in place better-functioning mechanisms for the loading and efficient treatment of waste.
many local communities are increasingly concerned about waste management.
waste management is becoming a major political and social issue.
the lack of management of these matters and the failure to prioritise action in this area have negative consequences not only for human health and well-being, but also for the longevity of the planet and the environment.
many eu countries are lagging far behind in implementing waste strategies, and in this respect, legacies of the past and over-reliance on landfills, coupled with the need to change the approach to waste disposal, have led to serious breaches of eu legislation.
all measures need to be taken to prevent waste generation, to ensure preparation for re-use, recycling, further recovery including recovery for energy production and disposal through safe incineration, with landfills as a last resort.
we have just heard from the commissioner how much recycling and the recycling of e-waste in particular, has to offer to the economy.
a sound waste management policy is therefore essential, as e-waste is one of the fastest growing waste segments in the european union.
the slovak republic has already reached the target set in directive 2002/96/ec and since 2010 we have been facing the problem of exceeding the minimum limit of 4 kg of e-waste per person per year.
therefore, the transitional period, which slovakia has entered, will cover up the shortcomings that persist between producers and importers, or electronic anonymous sales, and will also slow down the selection of those who do not contribute to the financing of waste collection and subsequent treatment to date.
energy poverty is a serious problem in developing countries.
access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for eradicating poverty.
but few developing countries have made progress in improving access to energy.
we already have a number of technologies to bring clean and efficient energy to poor communities.
in addition to fossil fuels, technologies that use local energy sources can also provide a solution.
we must do everything we can, both politically and financially, to achieve universal access to energy by 2030.
access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable development.
without access to energy, entire communities are forced to live in poverty and in undignified conditions.
over the past period, there has been a significant effort to promote private investment in energy access.
but apart from countries with transforming economies, very few developing countries can demonstrate progress in increasing energy access for the poor.
financial assistance for access to energy for this population has been limited so far and therefore there is a need to increase private sector involvement.
as for the future, the european union energy facility is the only fund in the world specifically designed to support investment to tackle energy poverty.
however, there are currently no commitments for the european union energy facility for the future.
i therefore believe that, in particular by increasing political will and financial commitments, the union can play a decisive key role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030.
i agree with mr schmid that tax evasion is a serious problem for the european union and that the coordination of tax policies needs to be addressed.
− the deliberate and systematic concealment of nuclear activities, the refusal to cooperate with the international atomic energy agency, lead to justified serious concerns that iran is indeed pursuing the development of nuclear weapons.
the repeated disregard for the resolutions of the international atomic energy agency, the un security council and the european parliament is, in my view, sufficient grounds for the adoption of additional sanctions against iran.
the commission currently provides support to projects and networks in the field of sport either through incentive measures specifically targeted at sport, in particular preparatory actions in the field of sport, or through existing programmes in individual relevant areas, such as lifelong learning, public health, youth, citizenship, research and technological development, social inclusion, combating racism or environmental protection.
but the area that is causing the growing number of petitions is the apparent failure of public authorities in many countries to deal satisfactorily with the problem of waste management.
the european union has adopted a number of laws applicable in all member states to ensure that there is a legal framework dealing with the inevitable consequences of our modern lifestyles in terms of waste from households, workplaces, hospitals, industry and so on.
insufficient management and the failure to prioritise action in this area have not only negative consequences for human health and well-being, but also have a negative impact on the environment in the broadest sense.
analysis of waste management policies in the eu member states provides very different information.
several member states are very advanced and have not received any petitions from citizens raising waste management issues.
however, many other eu countries are lagging far behind in implementing waste strategies.
i am of the opinion that in order to improve the efficient management of waste, it is necessary to help improve the implementation of the policy in this area in the future.
− access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable human development.
without access to energy, entire communities are forced to live in poverty.
to begin addressing this problem, in september 2010 the un secretary-general ban ki-moon set a target of universal access to energy by 2030. he stressed the importance of access to energy in reducing poverty and the role of energy services in achieving the millennium development goals.
over the next two decades, significant global investments in the energy sector are planned to amount to usd 26 trillion, and only 3% of this amount would provide universal access to energy by 2030. over the past period, considerable efforts have been made to promote private investment in energy access, but, apart from countries with economies in transition, very few developing countries can demonstrate progress in increasing energy access for the poor.
financial assistance for access to energy for the poor has been limited so far and therefore there is a need to increase private sector involvement.
i also believe that by demonstrating and increasing political will and financial commitments, the eu can play a key role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030.
in writing.
the report covers a number of sectors, including the call for the swift implementation of the internal energy market package to achieve an open and competitive single energy market.
i am aware of the technical complexity of such a project, but i am convinced that it can make a significant contribution to awareness and to strengthening legal certainty in the european business environment.
− the european union's economic prosperity also rests on sustainable creativity and innovation.
if we are to maintain this position in the fierce global competition, we must create and protect an environment in which authors, inventors and manufacturers are not afraid to share their creations and knowledge for public use, but produce better products.
the kingdom of morocco has become a political and economic partner for us and this protocol represents a significant act of support and encouragement by the eu in relation to the efforts towards sustainable democracy in the region.
investments in sustainable jobs must be a priority.
the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the european commission will enable the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
contrary to popular misconception, neither the us nor china have a larger economy, but they do have a better environment for competitiveness, new services and innovation.
− the gradual reforms of the common organisation of the markets in milk and milk products have been market-oriented in order to promote the competitiveness of the milk and milk products sector and its sustainability in the context of globalised trade.
i also believe that the introduction of a sustainable fiscal framework aimed at better economic governance and growth is a necessary condition for the joint issuance of bonds.
solutions specifically targeting the current sovereign debt and financial crisis, and on which all the institutions are working on a daily basis, should be coupled with a focus on medium- and long-term measures to boost growth, as well as a reworking of the general economic framework in order to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and ensure its lasting success.
− in the light of the implementation plan adopted at the 2002 un world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg, the european community commits itself, inter alia, to maintain or restore fish stocks at levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield, with a view to achieving these objectives rapidly in the event of stock depletion and, if possible, by 2015 at the latest.
biological information on these stocks is not sufficient for an overall assessment of these stocks which would allow for the setting of a fishing mortality target related to the maximum sustainable yield and which could base the total allowable catch on scientific forecasts in this area.
preventive scientific advice suggested that the annual catches of western hake should be kept below 150 000 tonnes for several years from 2003, provided that this would make the exploitation of stocks sustainable, even if there is no exceptionally high replenishment of stocks in the future.
it is therefore necessary that the reformed common fisheries policy ensures the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and the protection and maintenance of fish stocks at healthy levels, in such a way that fishing activities can continue within their traditional areas and communities in the long term.
the fisheries sector is one of the most important pillars of food security for the european union and its sustainability and stability must therefore be ensured through the reform of the common fisheries policy so that in the future the sector can supply fishery products of sufficient quality and quantity to meet the demand of more than half a billion european citizens.
in this context, the agreement in question appears to be a positive step towards promoting political stabilisation and mutually sustainable economic development.
in this context, the agreement in question appears to be a positive step towards promoting political stabilisation and mutually sustainable economic development.
the new democratic movement in the mediterranean should be an opportunity for european leaders not only to improve the human and social rights of their citizens, but also to make the most of the benefits offered by a friendlier political and economic environment in our southern neighbourhood.
− the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme is one of the two major eu space initiatives and plays a key role in earth observation, which is a vital tool for combating climate change and environmental degradation, civil protection and security, sustainable development, mobility and crisis management, as well as securing important economic opportunities.
the constantly changing legislative environment in the european union places increasing demands on our judges, prosecutors and lawyers, who must be able to apply all legislative changes to their work in real time.
instead of promoting the family as the natural environment for childbirth and child rearing, the report emphasizes unions between people of a non-heterosexual orientation.
i consider it important and justified to create a favourable environment for women to participate in political life at all levels.
precise data are the basis for obtaining detailed information on specific areas such as demography, economy and environment and therefore play a key role in the decision-making process in the field of regional development, in particular in the context of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy.
sustainable world cocoa trade must be based on the principles of economic viability at all stages of the chain, while respecting social and environmental standards.
the tailor-made savings measures already taken must be accompanied by targeted investments that will result in sustainable economic development.
i consider it important that all stakeholders involved in the cultivation and processing of cocoa beans and their derived products governments, global industry, cocoa producers, labour organisations, ngos and consumers take responsibility for their obligations in combating all forms of forced child labour and trafficking in children, exchange experiences and cooperate in creating a sustainable supply chain for cocoa production without child labour.
the overall aim of the agreement is to bring more transparency and sustainability to an industry on which the livelihoods of 50 million people worldwide depend.
as the world's main importer and consumer of cocoa and the home of its largest processors and chocolate manufacturers, the eu bears a large share of the responsibility for making the sector more sustainable.
it is a health hazardous work for children in a totally inappropriate environment and conditions instead of going to school.
in a healthy society, there must be an open political dialogue in a free media environment, and this should be our main objective for russia as well, so that even the currently unsuccessful opposition can show its real political potential in the new free environment.
so, of course, we have to do our part to fight carbon emissions.
member states should complement their emissions trading systems with technology and innovation-based approaches to achieve the necessary reductions.
if we want to be successful in this area, we have to align our energy efficiency ambitions and we should not shut down our nuclear reactors.
legislative pressure to protect water resources more strictly, to ensure that all people have access to the necessary drinking water and to regulate effectively the management of water in production sectors is therefore a legitimate and important measure to reduce the waste of this precious and vital liquid.
on the other hand, we who have plenty of water at this time often use it irrationally, devalue it, waste it.
poor water management in all contexts is certainly a major contributor to climate change.
if we can regulate emissions, industrial production, or huge rivers, then we have to find a way to protect water and soil, to capture a raindrop where it falls.
the energy sector in particular requires the highest possible level of clarity and certainty.
the adoption of the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy in 2050 presented by the commission as a basis for policy-making will help to achieve this objective.
to combat global warming, co2 emissions must be reduced worldwide.
the latest figures are not encouraging: emissions increased by 6% in 2010. co2 is accumulating in the atmosphere at an increasing rate.
the eu currently accounts for only 11% of global co2 emissions, and our actions alone will not stop the warming process.
investments in developing a low-carbon economy can be expected not to weaken europe's competitive position, but to strengthen it.
the adoption of a roadmap and the setting of ambitious targets for the development of a low-carbon economy are also opportunities to stimulate progress.
sound relations between the union and kazakhstan are essential, as is the strengthening of political and economic cooperation, including in strategic areas such as human rights, the environment, energy, trade and transport, as well as the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking.
the european union must also promote water solutions to ensure further progress at global, national, regional and local levels, and set itself the goal of fighting poverty and climate change.
water management has a direct impact on human health, energy production, agriculture and food security.
i also believe that there is a case for concluding and implementing international agreements on the joint management of crossborder surface and groundwater resources, which would bring together the public and administrations to ensure sustainable management of water resources and which would act as a safeguard against local and international conflicts.
the european union supports the efforts of the palestinians to build civilian structures and institutions that help stabilise the political environment in the middle east.
the ongoing intimidation and murder of witnesses to these crimes demonstrates the inadequacy of the work of the european union rule of law mission in kosovo and its inability to document the crimes of the kosovo liberation army in a perfectly objective manner in a mafia-ridden environment.
support for technologies that do not meet better than average european environmental standards should therefore be significantly limited.
i believe that the basis for qualified project appraisal in the future should be to place greater emphasis on the impact and participation of experts assessing the environmental and innovative parameters of the planned investments.
in 2010, the bank's board of directors adopted a new operational plan for the period 2011-2013 which identified three main aspects of the bank's activities, namely support for the europe 2020 strategy, combating climate change and supporting eu external policy objectives.
i also have to mention the strategic role of azerbaijan in its contribution to the energy security of europe.
i think there is no doubt that this country, which has recently undergone major democratic changes, has finally become a member of the un security council for 2012-2013, in public administration it is moving towards transparency and the fight against corruption and, last but not least, europe's efforts for the eastern partnership, the good neighbourly partnership, places azerbaijan among good partners who can be beneficial for europe, for example, from the point of view of europe's energy self-sufficiency.
we know that energy resources in azerbaijan are and reasonable cooperation with this democratically developing country is to continue.
generous social support schemes are not sustainable in the long term.
− when we talk about the future of cohesion policy in the outermost regions, it is necessary and appropriate to analyse how these european regions will be able to achieve the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the eu 2020 strategy, given their characteristics and the persistent constraints resulting in particular from their remoteness.
it plays a positive role in the european neighbourhood policy and contributes, inter alia, to addressing the eu's energy security challenges.
building a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy is of utmost importance.
so let us concentrate on the big energy companies, commissioner, which are making huge profits every year, and not burden consumers with increased levies and charges.
− for the european union, energy policy objectives are as essential as industrial policy objectives.
the question of energy taxation must be approached with caution in all respects.
we need to align it with the newly adopted energy efficiency directive and the eu energy policy guidelines.
a double taxation of energy, based on co2 emissions and energy content, would entail a more logical and consistent system.
− i welcome the commission's proposal to contribute to energy efficiency and climate protection in order to achieve not only revenue but also, and above all, to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and also to influence consumer behaviour towards a more energy-efficient or cleaner energy.
however, i am of the opinion that member states should be free to design their tax systems and to determine their own tax rates for energy products at national level, respecting minimum levels.
− taxation on co2 emissions and the energy content of an energy product, on the one hand, and the observance of the so-called proportionality between the individual minimum thresholds set at european union level by the member states, on the other hand, would lead in particular to a substantial increase in diesel prices in the vast majority of member states.
such neutral treatment of all fuels would provide a technology-neutral advantage to all co2-free fuels and would also promote energy efficiency.
for most of them, there is no point in putting energy into it, and the subsidy policy actually puts them at a disadvantage.
therefore, sustainable higher education should continue to be based on public investment, thereby ensuring that as many people as possible have access to higher education.
in 2010, the european commission adopted the 2020 strategy, which aims to create smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i quote: 'the european parliament recognises that population growth has an impact on climate and stresses the need to respond appropriately to all unmet needs of women and men in the area of contraception in all societies.'
is the rapporteur saying that in the name of saving the climate, we should stop having children?
do we need to distribute condoms, pills and provide reproductive health services because of climate change and co2 emissions?
the report on the negative impacts of climate change on women suggests that the solution is to deprive women of their femininity by discouraging them from becoming mothers.
it assumes that one of the main causes of poverty, and according to this report, also of climate change, is population growth.
first of all, it is regrettable to acknowledge the truth of the statement in the report that european policy on biodiversity protection has failed utterly.
i think one of the reasons why the european union's biodiversity policy is failing is that there is a lack of awareness in society about the importance of preserving ecosystems for the future of life on earth.
we must therefore be able to convince not only our citizens, but also regional politicians and business managers, that the protection of biodiversity is not incompatible with sustainable and economic growth.
increased awareness of the need to protect and conserve ecosystems will generate greater pressure on public authorities as well as on business entities to not tolerate environmental damage through their actions.
research aimed at the conservation of biodiversity must be multidisciplinary in nature, taking into account not only ecological, climatological or genetic aspects but also social and economic aspects.
commissioner, the continued degradation of ecosystems reminds us that we need to be much more agile in our actions to protect biodiversity.
civilization's interference with ecosystems causes irreversible environmental degradation, and therefore our efforts to eliminate the natural damage to the environment are fully legitimate and necessary.
the sixth environment action plan, which has provided us with a framework for environmental policy, is coming to an end in july this year and therefore the continuity of european environmental policy needs to be addressed.
in the subsequent seventh environment action programme, experience has shown that greater emphasis will need to be placed on substantially strengthening environmental legislation and gradually integrating environmental objectives into all sectoral policies.
more emphasis will also need to be placed on the cross-border dimension of environmental protection.
in addition to a global environmental policy, we should also work on specific integrated strategies for individual geographical areas or urban agglomerations, taking into account the specific characteristics of their ecosystems.
in any event, the seventh environment action programme should be better structured, more precise, more ambitious and more effective in order to make the best use of the experience of the european union's multiannual environmental policy.
what i wanted to say as a doctor was that i would like to see a more in-depth study of the impact of climate on human health, both men and women, perhaps on malnutrition and the incidence of infectious diseases, in order to ensure prevention, access to health services and medicines, health care, especially in areas at risk of natural disasters.
it is true that women are somehow more affected by some intermediate means, for example when it comes to climate change in rural settlements, where in some regions 70% of women work in agriculture and produce 90% of the cereals.
− fusion energy can provide a long-term solution to the energy dependence of the european union and the world in a sustainable way.
iter will demonstrate and refine the key technologies needed to develop fusion as a safe and environmentally friendly energy source, as it does not produce greenhouse gases or long-lived radioactive waste.
i believe iter will bring the promised revolutionary breakthrough that could provide a long-term, radical solution to our energy problems.
many sectors of economic activity in burma/myanmar, such as logging, oil or gas extraction, have been directly linked to serious human rights violations and environmental destruction, and have been a major source of revenue for both the military and governmental entities.
i consider that the decision by argentina to proceed with the expropriation of the majority of the shares may call into question the principle of legal certainty in that country and deteriorate the investment climate.
−the gender link to climate change has only recently been taken into account and has not yet led to a genuine gender mainstreaming in climate policies.
moreover, the issues of climate justice are slowly fading away.
however, the effects of climate change will have a disproportionate impact on women, and that is why i think it is important to stress that the fight against climate change must be an absolute priority for the european union.
it is therefore of the utmost importance that we do not take it lightly in climate policy.
gender mainstreaming is an opportunity to fight climate change better, more equitably and more effectively.
− biodiversity is our life insurance, providing us with food, fresh water and clean air, shelter and medicines, mitigating natural disasters, damage caused by pests and diseases and contributing to climate regulation.
it is also natural capital, providing the ecosystem services that underpin our economy.
its loss, together with the climate change with which it is inextricably linked, represents the most critical global environmental threat.
the continuing and increasing pressures on biodiversity in europe, such as land-use change, over-exploitation of biodiversity and its components, the spread of invasive alien species, pollution and climate change, are either remaining at a constant level or increasing, and at the same time indirect factors affecting biodiversity, such as population growth, limited awareness of biodiversity and the fact that the economic value of biodiversity is not reflected in the decision-making process, are not very conducive to the situation.
i believe it is important to reverse the loss of biodiversity and accelerate the eu's transition to a so-called green, resource-efficient economy.
− a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are essential conditions for guaranteeing the quality of life and maintaining the stability of ecosystems.
environmental action programmes are a major driver for the adoption of strong eu environmental legislation, particularly in areas such as air, water, waste and climate.
protecting our environment improves the quality of life in particular by preserving ecosystems and their services, halting biodiversity loss, ensuring better air quality, reducing noise, creating jobs and growth, while ensuring the well-being of present and future generations.
the current sixth environment action programme (6eap) expires in july of that year.
its thorough evaluation concluded that the 6th eap provided an overall framework for environmental policy and consolidated and substantially complemented environmental legislation during its lifetime.
despite these positive developments, i believe that the state of our environment cannot yet be considered fully satisfactory.
i therefore consider it important and justified to adopt the 7th eap as soon as possible, in order to ensure continuity and, where possible, a sustainable future.
however, in addition, the ongoing 7th environment action programme should provide a clear ambitious vision for 2050 and thus a long-term perspective for all stakeholders.
relevant surveys by independent institutions, as well as the eurobarometer survey, show that the market environment for mobile data services does not function in such a way that competition between providers generates transparent and fair prices for users of those services.
like my colleagues on the committee on industry, research and energy, i am convinced that the commission's proposal, in particular the 50 cent maximum retail price per megabyte of data transferred abroad after 1 july 2014, is too generous for operators.
the legislative process, whose parliamentary phase we have concluded today, was one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency in 2011. in today's fast-paced world, money, energy and time can be saved by having access to official texts in a reliable electronic format, including eu documentation.
if their administration is not able to respond to an export request, it is unlikely that it will be able to protect citizens or the environment from hazardous chemicals.
the european union is a leader in environmental legislation and should remain so.
i believe it is the union's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals we export do not cause unnecessary damage to human health or the environment.
plant breeding is a basic prerequisite for ensuring food supplies and, to some extent, energy supplies.
it is becoming a growing threat to human life and safety of seafarers and others, as well as to regional development and stability, the marine environment, world trade, all forms of maritime transport and transport, including fishing vessels, and the provision of humanitarian aid.
i support all activities that improve the business environment for smes in the union.
the most dangerous areas where the level of vulnerability is most pronounced are energy, food, transport, financial services, access to justice, telecommunications.
sustainable fishing for bluefin tuna, as well as other commercially exploited fish, logically implies that we must respect safe biological limits to preserve the natural balance of marine waters.
first, if china respected the value of human life and cared about the environment, there would be no trade balance between china and the eu.
the role of the financial sector is to support the real economy, sustainable growth, employment, productive investment, not speculation and risk.
oil spills caused by tanker accidents are a major environmental disaster and a tragedy for marine life.
in an effort to protect the environment and learn from past mistakes, the steps leading to the accelerated introduction of double hulls for oil tankers are also reducing the risk of hydrocarbon pollution causing accidents in european waters.
in the event of damage to this sheet due to a collision or a crash, the contents of the transport tanks may be spilled into the sea and cause widespread pollution.
this 'double hull' design protects the transport tanks against accident and reduces the risk of water pollution.
one of the objectives of the european community and mozambique is to promote economic, scientific and technological cooperation in the field of fisheries and all related sectors, with a view to establishing cooperation that would allow the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the interests of both parties.
i believe that a new, balanced trade agreement should be negotiated, which would provide a more favourable environment for european investors, while guaranteeing transparency in the management of chinese companies investing in the eu.
this continuation of the current rate of inefficient use of natural resources is not sustainable in the long term and is irresponsible towards the poorest sections of the population, but also has negative effects on the environment and brings high losses to businesses and the economy.
the economic and financial crisis also suggests that europe urgently needs new sources and ways of sustainable economic growth.
i think that support should only be given where it is clearly demonstrated that these are newly created jobs for young people that will be sustainable in the long term and provide young people with stable employment with the prospect of further professional growth.
in many cases, this is linked to the rising costs resulting from a combination of high taxes, europe's unilateral commitment to reduce co2 emissions, but above all from high social demands on workers that are not balanced by productivity.
the transition to a waste-based economy, the fundamental improvement in the use of secondary raw materials and the creation of incentives to reduce waste production, the inclusion of resource efficiency among the priorities of innovation programmes and the introduction of environmental sustainability criteria must become a strong common eu agenda in order to attract other regions of the world to this direction.
we need to change not only the way we think about our consumption habits, but also the way we think about the waste of raw materials in our production.
at both european and national level, resource efficiency and sustainability should be the top priority of innovation programmes.
the use of secondary raw materials in the european union must be radically increased and waste generation reduced.
in view of the competitiveness of the european economy, which must increasingly focus on innovation, such a demotivating approach is an unacceptable waste of human potential.
azerbaijan is also our important economic partner, and so it is natural that we are very sensitive to the political environment in this country.
although the commission's proposal for a regulation is based on a proven structure of three separate preferential regimes: 1) the standard gsp scheme, 2) the special incentive measures for sustainable development and good governance known as the gsp plus scheme, and 3) the everything but arms measure, the rules and criteria for granting preferences are changing, which is also reflected in the other structure of the beneficiary countries.
global economic development, rapid economic growth in asia, as well as in other parts of the world, has generated enormous demand for energy resources.
it is clear that new industrial agglomerations will increasingly be involved in the extraction of limited energy resources and that our traditional energy partners will be able to choose more and more to whom they sell their energy resources.
i therefore agree that a policy of stable, sustainable energy supply must be a major priority for the european union.
from a geographical point of view, it seems to me to make sense to focus more on closer energy relations with the mediterranean countries and traditional partners norway and russia.
the energy potential of the persian gulf, the transcaucasus and siberia will surely be more keenly sought after by new, strong customers from asia and other parts of the world.
i am therefore convinced that our new partnerships in central asia or the transcaucasus should not be built at the expense of our current energy suppliers to europe.
mr president, energy issues need to be a priority for the eu’s cooperation with third countries as well as for its engagement in international organisations.
here i would like to stress the importance of the energy charter as one of the few international energy organisations in the world.
i fully support the call to make better use of the energy charter as part of the eu’s external policy, especially in such key areas as straight transit investment and dispute resolution.
the energy charter’s practical use will grow significantly when not only russia but also countries like morocco, algeria, tunisia and china are full members.
its rules could facilitate energy trade from northern africa just as much as the diversification of sources of gas supply and the security of existing ones, notably the southern corridor and ukraine.
as a member of the slovak parliament, i can confirm that, in addition to sustainable growth, support for employment is one of the main tools for combating the crisis.
the overall objective of development cooperation, as set out in the treaty of lisbon, is to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable economic and social development.
it helps to address human, social, environmental and intergenerational issues.
in writing − volunteering is a tool for individuals and associations to address human, social, environmental and intergenerational needs and issues.
in writing − i am very pleased to see a growing number of europeans with a good heart, of all ages, engaging in a variety of voluntary activities in the fields of education, culture, youth policy, sport, the environment, sustainable development, health and many others.
however, in the online environment, legislation that addresses such important issues as the protection of intellectual property or the protection of personal data must be enforced even more effectively.
however, it is essential that we ensure a high level of security in the digital environment in the first place.
in writing, the commission has published a report on the implementation of the energy union strategy for europe.
moreover, there is a realistic assumption that global energy demand will increase by 40% by 2030, especially in non-oecd countries.
the european union's dependence on energy imports will increase significantly over the decade, mainly due to the depletion of its fossil fuel resources.
this will be despite the growing influence of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and research into energy technologies.
this is why i believe it is important to focus on a common approach and to extend influence beyond european borders, especially in the field of energy market rules, when defining european energy policy.
this policy must be based on solidarity, strategic cooperation and the promotion of domestic renewable resources.
in writing − given its importance in everyday life, energy should in principle be a commodity and not used as a foreign policy tool.
at the same time, however, it is important that the eu takes into account all aspects of the security of our energy supply.
the eu is the main buyer of energy on world markets.
we need to find a common approach and extend our influence beyond the eu, especially in the area of energy market rules.
in writing − sustainable energy supply is a prerequisite for economic development.
the energy sector is therefore one of the strategic areas requiring tactical action focused on energy security and sustainability.
however, the right energy mix, with renewables starting to make inroads, together with energy efficiency and other small-scale solutions, is not an integral part of the answer to the question of the energy dependence of many member states on energy supplies from outside the eu.
in my view, the union should not only cultivate its relations with its traditional partners, such as russia, but should also gradually establish deeper strategic cooperation in energy with the countries bordering the black and caspian seas, the middle east, the mediterranean and central asia.
i agree that the eu and the member states must ensure an internal energy market that resists external pressures and attempts to use energy supplies and prices as a tool for external political pressure.
i therefore believe that when the eu budget is being planned, resources should be increased for projects linking energy markets within the eu and for improving the european gas and electricity infrastructure network.
in writing, europe is the largest buyer of energy in global energy markets.
the reason is the continuous creation of energy dependence on third countries.
it is precisely because of the low self-sufficiency that relations with our partners - energy suppliers - are very important.
ensuring reliable and cost-effective access to global energy resources is therefore crucial to promoting europe's competitiveness and security in view of the eu's policy objectives set out in the 2020 package.
it is also necessary to achieve our environmental objectives, such as meeting the commitment to decarbonise the economy by 2050.
madam president, first of all i would like to offer my sincere congratulations to the rapporteur for his very good work on this report.
it is equally important that the union, together with the un and other partners, work at global and local levels to strengthen the rule of law, support independent media and build and strengthen sustainable democratic institutions.
written − the european union has granted trade preferences to developing countries through the generalised system of preferences (gsp) since 1971. the scheme is one of the key trade instruments providing assistance to developing countries in their efforts to ensure basic human and labour rights, reduce poverty and promote sustainable development and good governance in developing countries.
the eu and japan face common challenges to revive their industries, such as the political and economic rise of china, the economic slowdown following the global financial crisis, demographic decline and the urgent need to access and secure price stability for raw materials and energy resources.
in writing − the uncontrolled and unregulated arms trade poses a serious threat to local, national, regional and international peace, security and stability, as well as to democracy, the rule of law and sustainable social and economic development.
so let us also consider, commissioner, the economic environment we are creating in the union as our traditional european producers are gradually leaving us to do business elsewhere in the world.
i therefore consider it very necessary to support all the additional proposals of the committee on industry, research and energy which address the shortcomings of the proposal submitted by the commission.
i supported the line taken by the rapporteur in the committee on industry that the level of protection of health and the environment should be at least the same or higher than today.
i believe that the union needs a well-defined policy approach to promote economic recovery, restore the health of public finances and, above all, actively promote sustainable growth and jobs.
as well as strengthening the coordination of our economic policies, which is absolutely essential for a new sustainable growth agenda.
the basic objective of the plan is to ensure that the herring stock west of scotland is exploited on the basis of maximum sustainable yield.
written − the december 2006 directive on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances lays down rules for preventing major accidents which could result from certain industrial activities and limiting their consequences for human health and the environment.
this underlines the need to take appropriate preventive measures to guarantee a high level of protection of citizens, communities and the environment throughout the union.
in writing − major industrial accidents claim many lives, destroy property and the environment and have caused billions of euros in costs.
in writing − since it is of the utmost importance not only to maintain but also to improve a high level of protection of human health, the environment and property, i consider it necessary to adapt the directive appropriately to scientific and technical progress.
last but not least, i welcome the efforts of the committee on industry, research and energy to emphasise in the text the need to include additional product groups in the draft regulation, namely milk drinks for young children and food for people allergic to gluten.
the overall objective is to enable companies in europe to compete more effectively and achieve more in a highly competitive global environment, while ensuring that the interests of creditors, shareholders, members and employees are adequately protected.
i believe that all future initiatives should be in line with national corporate governance systems and national legislation on employee involvement, while seeking greater flexibility and freedom of choice with regard to the legal forms of companies, internal division of responsibilities and sustainable corporate strategies.
i believe that the union needs a well-defined policy approach to promote economic recovery, restore the health of public finances and, above all, actively promote sustainable growth and jobs.
however, i believe that one of the main problems facing the european union is energy self-sufficiency, or the ability to provide additional energy sources for new investments.
and here, i think, we need to build networks both transcontinental and connectivity to new energy sources that are outside our continent.
these new rules are essential to ensure a safe and reliable insurance industry that can provide sustainable insurance products and support the real economy through long-term investment and additional stability.
written − the baltic sea macro-region, created in 2009, is a coherent group of territories whose mission is to cooperate in order to better address the economic and environmental problems arising in them.
this cooperation has taken the form of a macro-regional strategy designed to coordinate the already strong sectoral cooperation built on the four pillars environment, prosperity, accessibility and security and an action plan focusing on 15 priorities and 80 major projects.
the mediterranean region has the same natural environment, with the same history and culture linking its entire coastline.
in writing − intellectual property rights (ipr) are essential for innovation, which is a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing − intellectual property rights are essential for innovation, which is a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, hydromorphological changes and climate change are putting increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe and secure water.
future economic growth cannot be sustainable if it is associated with adverse environmental impacts on water.
current water legislation provides a solid framework for sustainable and efficient water management.
the protection of water resources, with particular reference to drinking water, needs to be addressed in a global perspective, taking into account all ecosystem services supported by water.
also, climate change mitigation and adaptation policies must always take into account the impact on water resources, and the eu should address this issue in a comprehensive way.
water is the basis of every ecosystem, and its efficient use and protection must also be a priority for european legislation.
the annual floods, weather fluctuations, extreme droughts, landslides are all the result of poor water management and inefficient use in the energy and agriculture sectors, which are the largest water users.
in view of biodiversity, rapid afforestation of areas that have been subject to frequent flooding in recent years in individual member states is necessary.
i therefore voted in favour of the resolution text so that decisive eu action in this area can contribute to the protection of waters and biodiversity.
the european market attracts foreign investors for a number of reasons, such as human capital, a predictable business environment, high research potential, and an emphasis on corporate social responsibility.
this is of course not achievable without effective structural reforms to improve the business environment and create jobs in all eu regions.
domestic investment in the union should help to make the environment attractive not only for foreign direct investment but for overall investment and business in the internal market, through the upgrading of sustainable infrastructure for business, education, research and development.
they are of vital importance in the context of the union's bilateral trade policy and in line with our aspiration to achieve a stable, transparent and predictable economic environment.
the proposal also contains a number of provisions aimed at simplifying the current legislative environment and reducing the administrative burden for member states.
finally, global external factors such as global demand for cars and global growth as well as domestic aspects in russia such as infrastructure development and business environment, all these factors can have a positive and negative impact on the growth of eu-russia trade in cars and motor vehicle components, which is difficult to estimate.
it is therefore expected that a sufficiently serious commitment will be made to implement without delay the reforms required by wto accession, reciprocity and a commitment to negotiate a mutually beneficial new agreement, in particular in the areas of energy, trade and investment.
a common theme (in the interinstitutional debate as well as in stakeholder consultations) is the need to promote resource efficiency for the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of eu agriculture and rural areas in line with the europe 2020 strategy, with the cap structure remaining based on two pillars that use complementary tools to pursue the same objectives.
sustainable production should be supported through direct payments by allocating 30% of the budget to mandatory measures that benefit the climate and the environment.
it is part of sustainable development and is important for the protection of animal health, public health, productivity and competitiveness.
in writing − animal welfare is part of the concept of sustainable development and is important for animal protection, public health, productivity and competitiveness.
the assumption that innovative forms of financing of meaningful projects in the trans-european transport and energy networks will lead to faster implementation of these projects, technological progress and increased employment opportunities in the union can only be fulfilled if the funds used are effectively managed.
therefore, from the outset, the european investment bank and the european commission should work with independent expertise to set the proposed system up at this stage to be sustainable and efficient in the long term with minimal risks.
we will of course try to maintain our enthusiasm, but the question is how long we will be able to find the right partners and whether the policy we have pursued so far is sustainable in the long term.
we know how different our views are on energy policy.
and that is closely linked to the fight against climate change.
the implementation of energy efficiency legislation, but also the further development of clean and safe nuclear energy, can make a major contribution and a positive to the fight against climate change.
nevertheless, i think that we need to concentrate on getting these countries to join in monitoring and tracking the weather changes and in connection, of course, with industrial production and the way in which the environment is being polluted.
perhaps as they gather more data and information, we will reach a common understanding of what changes and what action need to be taken in the first place to tackle climate change.
sustainable development, human progress for all and world peace will not be achieved without justice for all.
however, throughout the negotiations, ippf, unfpa, marie stopes international, dsw and other organisations funded by the union budget have explicitly linked sexual and reproductive health, abortion and sustainable development.
in writing − if you have over the next decade, major investments in european transport, energy, information and communication networks will be needed to support the europe 2020 flagship actions and to develop smart, modernised and fully connected infrastructures to boost the completion of the internal market.
the european parliament, in its resolution of june 2011 on investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe, underlined that the union should take action, in particular, to improve the use of eu funds as a catalyst for attracting additional financing from the european investment bank, the european bank for reconstruction and development, other international financial institutions and the private sector.
ideological blindness has never led to sustainable solutions.
for the efd group while i very much appreciate the commission's stated intention in the draft regulation to improve our business and commercial environment, including by updating the union's standardisation rules, i would like to point out that the current system works quite well.
i therefore believe that the amendments and additions from the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on international trade should be accepted by a large majority.
this means that funding research using embryonic stem cells is a waste of european taxpayers' money and should be banned.
the ecological economy can also be described as a sustainable economy, by which i mean mainly social and ecological sustainability.
social sustainability means a social order based on equality and social justice, regardless of gender, ethnicity, colour, religion, sexual orientation, disability or political opinion.
given gender roles, women's environmental impact is not the same as men's.
gender inequality, coupled with a lack of sensitivity to women's different economic and social status and needs, often causes women to suffer disproportionately from environmental degradation.
the effects of climate change are most acute for the poorest people, of whom women are estimated to make up 70%.
women in the green economy are underrepresented in professional positions and are clearly underrepresented in environmental and budgetary negotiations and decision-making.
but if we tell a french-speaking family from algeria or an english-speaking family from india or egypt that their new asylum home is to be estonia or romania, we are putting them in front of a very difficult language barrier that is going to make them very impatient and complicate their ability to integrate in their new environment.
the european union wanted to achieve 20% savings in energy consumption by 2020. it has also been identified as one of the five priority objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
it has become clear that we need further strategic decisions to increase energy efficiency.
we're importing more and more energy at higher and higher prices, and there are also constraints on access to resources.
energy efficiency is one of the simplest ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, make our energy consumption sustainable and increase security of supply.
we can save as much energy as possible by reducing the energy demand of buildings.
energy efficiency considerations should be given greater weight in the design of buildings, as their energy demand currently accounts for 40% of the total energy demand in the union.
our role in energy efficiency is at risk in these times of economic crisis.
but if we fail in energy efficiency, we fail in climate change, energy security, green growth or social protection.
however, the increase in unit energy prices in the midst of the economic crisis will also have a very negative impact on low-income households.
i would therefore like to ask the commissioner how the commission is preparing a solution for low-income households in relation to the increase in energy prices.
commissioner, you have mentioned several times that, despite the efforts of the european commission, it is the member states which, through their instruments, whether fiscal or social, can also intervene in the pricing of energy policy.
as the commissioner responsible for this area, do you think it would be appropriate to move more quickly towards some form of unification, to have a common basis for determining, for example, tax policy in the field of energy policy?
i therefore ask commissioner oettinger what active measures the commission is prepared to take to support such a project to improve the efficiency of the european union's energy network.
in writing − energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other emissions associated with fossil fuels.
it leads to less dependence on energy imports, for which the eu currently pays more than eur 400 billion a year.
by investing in energy efficiency, the eu will reduce its dependence on russia and opec and invest in european industry.
this directive is an opportunity for europe to deliver on the energy and climate commitments made by heads of state in march 2007 and 2011: a 20% increase in eu energy efficiency will result in savings of 368 million tonnes of oil equivalent (mtoe) compared to the 2020 trend.
a common eu approach is needed to promote energy savings and efficiency and innovation, to achieve economies of scale and to reduce bureaucratic burdens in all member states.
eu energy efficiency policy will build on existing and well-functioning regional and national policies, while maintaining the necessary degree of flexibility to take account of local and national specificities.
− to achieve 20% energy savings, the eu needs to invest €800 billion to €1200 billion over the next decade.
an additional €400 billion could be generated directly from energy savings by 2020. renovations of buildings, which account for 40% of eu energy consumption, can be a significant source of savings.
the estimated annual renovation rate of buildings of 2% should be increased to 3% if the target of an annual commitment of 1,5% of final energy consumption savings in the eu is to be achieved.
i fully support all measures to save energy in the eu.
written − the european union and all its member states face the challenges of limited energy resources in the eu and thus dependence on energy imports from non-european countries.
energy efficiency is not only a valuable means of mitigating the negative effects of climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective way, but also a pathway to increasing energy security and the transition to a competitive energy-efficient economy.
i therefore believe that eu programmes such as horizon 2020 for science and research should pay attention to innovative technological solutions in energy efficiency-related sectors.
i agree with the approach that member states should be able to take into account national circumstances when setting indicative national energy efficiency targets and to adapt specific energy efficiency incentives to them.
in many member states, air quality standards are more easily achieved by reducing emissions from ships.
it is estimated that the monetary value of the health benefits achieved will exceed the cost of reducing emissions from shipping by two to twenty-five times.
reducing emissions from ships would make it easier to meet air quality standards in the member states.
the commission proposes that the new maximum sulphur value for seca zones (0,1%) should also apply to all passenger ships, with this limitation to take effect in 2020. if more stringent maximum sulphur levels were adopted, the health benefits would be two to 25 times greater than the cost of reducing emissions from shipping.
europe must remain committed to a social market economy model that guarantees sustainable growth in order to secure jobs and a better quality of life for current and future generations.
the european commission needs an ambitious 2013 work programme to promote sustainable growth, job creation and quality of life in europe and to restore citizens' confidence in european integration.
donations should be made on a voluntary and non-profit-making basis in a transparent environment.
the green economy also requires sustainable management of human resources, i.e.
social sustainability.
greater equality must be a natural part of an ecological and sustainable economy.
i would argue that in this time of economic uncertainty, of deepening climate change and of the collapse of ecosystems, women need to be given easier access to the world markets.
i believe that this is the only way to achieve progress in research, sustainable development and environmentally sound solutions to today's crises.
horizontal segregation is the result of stereotypes in the service sector, which are deeply rooted in society, where it is assumed that there are male and female professions, with female professions being associated with work that women perform in the domestic environment (clothing and textiles, education, nursing, cleaning services, etc.).
rapidly changing labour market conditions require the flexibility of a workforce that must be able to adapt to an increasingly wide range of jobs in order to secure quality and sustainable employment.
this includes, for example, technical areas, research and innovation and the energy sector, which should be promoted and made more attractive in people's minds.
eu policy must aim to create an environment that encourages the development of legal offerings accessible to all, innovation and creativity.
a stable economic environment and a secure energy supply are of paramount importance for the development of the european union's industry.
the best way to ensure that this is reliable is through a functioning internal energy market.
with the introduction of the third energy package, several member states have also decoupled electricity generation from transmission, which has allowed new entrants to enter the market.
the 2009 gas crisis also highlighted the vulnerability of our energy supply systems.
the challenges include intergovernmental agreements between member states and third countries in the field of energy supply, as contracts are occasionally concluded which can seriously affect the eu's internal energy market.
therefore, in order to avoid infringements of the internal market rules in force in the field of energy supply, there is a need for enhanced cooperation and an accurate exchange of information between member states.
the regional diversity of food and traditional production methods, some of which date back centuries, the emphasis on safety and good environmental conditions all contribute to the fact that the quality of european food is among the highest in the world.
− having regard to the proposal for a council decision (10475/2012), to council decision 2005/781/ec of 6 june 2005 on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the federative republic of brazil, to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with article 186 and point (a) (v) of the second subparagraph of article 218 (6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, to rule 81 and rules 90 (7) and 46 (1) of its rules of procedure, and to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, parliament gives its consent to the renewal of the agreement,
in writing.
− having regard to the proposal for a council decision (08283/2012), to the draft agreement signed on 19 march 2012 (17318/2011), to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with article 186, the second subparagraph of article 218 (6) (a) and article 218 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, to rules 81, 90 (7) and 46 (1) of its rules of procedure, and to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
− the atlantic region is characterised by several features: it is a dynamic maritime area thanks to renewable sources of marine energy, maritime transport, the maritime industry, tourism and fisheries; it is an area with a vulnerable marine environment that needs to be protected; it is an area that is the western gateway to the european union and is therefore strategic for europe; and it is an outermost region of the european union, which raises the question of its accessibility and connectivity with the rest of europe.
− the european union is heavily dependent on energy imports.
more than 50% of the eu's total energy needs are imported, with gas and oil even more so.
the eu's energy security is therefore sensitive to irregularity in energy supplies from outside the union.
in addition, energy imports account for 6% of total eu imports and are associated with high economic costs and risks for the eu economy.
it is in the interest of the eu and the member states that external energy relations be governed by intergovernmental agreements and that the negotiating power of the member states and their extensive internal market be strengthened through the exchange of information and best practices between the member states and the commission.
− stable and secure energy supplies are essential to fostering the development of a predictable economic environment for eu citizens and industry.
the common energy supplies can best be secured through a functioning internal energy market.
the introduction of the third energy package has contributed to the liberalisation of the energy market.
many member states have decoupled energy production from its transport, thus enabling new players to enter the energy supply market and significantly increasing its liquidity.
the challenges of secure energy supplies at competitive prices, including intergovernmental agreements between member states and third countries in the field of energy, must therefore be addressed.
the regional diversity of food and traditional production methods, the emphasis on safety and good environmental conditions all contribute to the fact that the quality of european food is among the highest in the world.
ensuring the reconstruction and future sustainable development of pakistan is of paramount importance not only for its citizens but also for security and stability in the region.
however, i am convinced that our generous policy of accommodation towards azerbaijan is not contributing to the cultivation of the political environment in that country and we should be more cautious in the future in expecting the armenian and azerbaijani governments to agree on a peaceful solution to the karabakh problem.
it is this kind of waste that makes citizens lose sight of the european project.
in the context of the transition to the so-called green economy, i believe it is appropriate to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which often bring very ingenious solutions in the field of resource efficiency, energy efficiency and climate change, especially at regional level.
the participation of smes in the continuation of the work on the modernisation and interconnection of energy transmission networks is also essential from the point of view of sustainability and resource efficiency.
i agree that improving the business environment can be one of the factors that can help economic growth.
in the context of the interim report on economic and monetary union, it is necessary to agree on a specific legislative framework for the ssm as soon as possible and no later than 1 january 2013. the process towards deepening economic and monetary union must in particular be open and transparent towards member states outside the euro area, while respecting the integrity of the single market u.we need a real economic and monetary union u. the smooth functioning of economic and monetary union requires more intensive and sustainable economic growth, employment and social cohesion i agree that governance within the euro area should continue to be improved the legislators should adopt legislative proposals on budgetary surveillance by the end of year 2 at the latest.
the intention was to partially restore the proposed budgets to inflation-sustainability.
without family policy and solidarity between generations, there is no fight against poverty and no sustainable development.
− on 10 may 2012, the european parliament postponed its decision on the discharge and closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2010. the european medicines agency subsequently addressed to a large extent the deficiencies highlighted in the report of 10 may 2012 and provided the relevant information to the discharge authority by letters of 2 and 6 july 2012 and 2, 7 and 24 august 2012. the european parliament, having regard to the second report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and having regard to the closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2010, gives discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. it shall forward this decision and the resolution that forms an integral part of it, as represented by its president, to the executive director of the european medicines agency, the council, the commission and the court of auditors, and shall ensure their publication in the official journal of the european union.
in this context, the air traffic management system is of key importance for air transport activities, addressing issues related to competitiveness, safety and sustainability.
furthermore, there will be room to create 328 000 jobs and to reduce co2 emissions by 50 million tonnes.
− if you have on 10 may 2012, the european parliament postponed its decision on the discharge and closure of the accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2010. the agency subsequently replied to the discharge authority by letters of 24 may, 15 june and 3 july 2012. the european parliament has always welcomed the professional, reliable and independent provision of information by the agency to all union institutions, member states and policy-making bodies and will expect such a professional approach in the future.
as regards the issue of the 2010 discharge, the european parliament refuses to grant the executive director of the european environment agency discharge for the implementation of the agency's 2010 budget.
with its agenda for change, the eu is striving to be the best donor, while striving to excel in three areas in particular: public governance, inclusive and sustainable economic growth and the development of social protection systems in developing countries.
as regards the three areas in which the eu should excel: public governance, inclusive and sustainable economic growth and the development of social protection systems in developing countries, i believe that the emphasis should be on the development of social protection, which is absent in many developing countries.
the eu, as the main donor, should therefore be the exclusive example in the field of governance, inclusive and sustainable economic growth and the development of social protection systems in developing countries.
eu funding to third countries is intended to contribute to sustainable poverty reduction and inclusive growth in countries.
− i see the coordination of industrial policies in the member states as an essential need to improve the competitiveness of all european businesses in order to achieve sustainable growth in the context of the europe 2020 strategy.
at eu level, i welcome the commission's proposal to map support systems in european countries from which the basis for a single european environment can emerge.
the eu and the us share common values, similar legal systems and high standards of occupational and environmental protection, and it seems appropriate and justified to take advantage of this synergy and close cooperation to ensure the growth and jobs needed by both partners.
moreover, the european union and the united states share common values, similar legal systems, and high standards of protection for workers and the environment.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products.
urgent action is needed at national and union level to remove obstacles to investment in energy infrastructure.
the next multiannual financial framework should provide sufficient resources to finance energy efficiency measures.
in my view, a legal framework is needed to encourage and involve energy suppliers in the implementation of energy efficiency measures.
council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 of 20 december 2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy provides for a derogation from the equal access rule by allowing member states to restrict fishing in waters within 12 nautical miles of their baselines to certain vessels.
− the european union and the republic of moldova are making joint efforts to protect each other's geographical indications in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and stimulate sustainable rural development.
the number of people affected by disasters, including those caused by global climate change, is also increasing worldwide.
unfortunately, there is a clear mismatch between eu policies on trade, agriculture, fisheries, climate, intellectual property rights, immigration, finance, arms and raw materials.
innovative financial instruments could therefore be a significant factor and tool for sustainable eu growth.
the commission should also make proposals to facilitate the mobilisation of savings that are currently under-used to support medium- and long-term projects that create sustainable growth in the eu.
economic development, competitiveness and environmental management leave much to be desired.
so, with better infrastructure and alternative sources, energy can be made cheaper and safer.
however, the emphasis on environmental protection in the expected construction investments must be an integral part of their assessment.
the fact that the region itself can be particularly strongly affected by migration, climate change and security is also important given its political and geographical characteristics.
environmental issues are of particular urgency, in particular because of biodiversity and the protection of cultural heritage.
the four so-called priorities include connecting the danube region, protecting the local environment, building prosperity and strengthening the danube region itself.
− the energy star programme, created by the united states environmental protection agency (epa), aims to increase the energy efficiency of office equipment.
in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
the agreement in question, which was renewed in 2006 for a second five-year period, provides for the establishment of the energy star programme in the eu.
before the current agreement expired in december 2011, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a new agreement to ensure the continuation of the energy star programme for a third five-year period.
the european council has made a strong commitment to mobilise all incentives, tools and policies at every level of government in the eu to revive smart, sustainable, inclusive growth that is resource-efficient and job-creating.
all proposed measures in this area should contribute to achieving sound and sustainable public finances, minimising macroeconomic imbalances and reviving competitiveness, which can help and lead to higher growth and employment.
however, manufacturers and retailers will likely have more serious concerns about the new safety and environmental measures.
hopefully, greater user safety and a better relationship with the environment will be adequate compensation for the higher prices imposed by the new european legislation.
the single currency can only be sustainable and stable if the member states are willing to devolve powers in the field of fiscal policies to the union.
social enterprises have become synonymous with the waste of public funds due to their high cost, opaque allocation of subsidies and unclear outcome.
− on 27 october 2011, the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the consent of the european union to the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution caused by exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed and its subsoil (the 'coastal protocol').
in particular, a policy of sustainable management of offshore oil and gas activities appears to be needed.
in fact, the european parliament has already expressed its position in its resolution of 13 september 2011 on safety issues in offshore oil and gas exploration and production, in which it stressed the importance of the full entry into force of the still unratified 1994 protocol on the coasts of the mediterranean aimed at protecting against pollution caused by exploration and exploitation.
the dpr between the eu and the former local government of greenland was adopted on 28 june 2007 with the current protocol setting out the annual fishing opportunities and financial contributions until 31 december 2012. the european commission, on the basis of a mandate from the council of 19 july 2011, has been negotiating with the government of greenland with a view to renewing the protocol due to the expiry of the current protocol on 31 december 2012. on the basis of those negotiations, a new protocol was initialled on 3 february 2012 for a period of three years from 1 january 2013. i am of the opinion that the fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principles of sustainable fisheries and is of considerable benefit to both parties.
most current and recent responses to the crisis are based on short-term objectives aimed in particular at restoring the sustainability of public finances, which are essential for the eu economy.
the current legislative proposals on this issue for the period after 2013, which are currently being negotiated, aim to enable this policy to contribute fully to the europe 2020 strategy by promoting agriculture that provides guarantees for food security, sustainable use of natural resources and development of rural areas, while being a source of growth and jobs.
the reform of the common agricultural policy aims at improving the organisation of production, sustainability and quality of agricultural products.
european producers must face new challenges and adopt production systems that adapt to them, such as climate change, loss of soil fertility, biodiversity.
the european commission is seeking to simplify the current legal framework and to set new administrative and technical requirements, for example on environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance.
as regards environmental aspects, i agree with the adoption of stricter emission limits for harmful substances within a reasonable timeframe to allow industry to adapt smoothly to the new requirements.
− the aim of the proposal is to establish harmonised rules for the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market while providing a high level of road safety, environmental protection and crew safety.
in order to ensure a high level of road safety, crew safety and environmental protection and to complete the internal market for agricultural and forestry vehicles, i believe that it would be appropriate to consider and introduce a union approval procedure for all vehicle categories, while taking into account the cost-benefit ratio, with particular attention to be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises.
− in particular, the subtitle of the european commission's communication of 25 october 2011 entitled 'the social enterprise initiative' should be noted, as it describes in a comprehensive way the eu's comprehensive objectives: creating an enabling environment for social enterprises in the social economy and social innovation.
it should be borne in mind that social enterprises fill the gap in employment and job creation, especially in the health, social services and environmental sectors.
economic and monetary union is not an end in itself but rather an instrument for achieving the objectives of the union and the member states, in particular the objective of balanced and sustainable growth and a high level of employment.
economic and monetary union is an instrument for achieving the objectives of the union and the member states, in particular the objective of balanced and sustainable growth and a high level of employment.
global energy demand is increasing and it seems that europe will remain one of the regions with the highest energy import needs.
according to the international energy agency, our energy imports are expected to grow by 40% by 2030. the extraction of shale gas could provide an opportunity to further diversify our gas supply sources and alleviate concerns about import dependency.
i believe we need to provide opportunities for sustainable exploitation and utilization without compromising the quantity and quality of our drinking water supply.
it is also important to note that the extraction of non-conventional fossil fuels represents a major opportunity to boost the economy, increase employment and, not least, promote research, and can also have a positive impact in the fight against climate change in the medium and long term.
i appreciate the commission's report, which sums up very seriously the environmental risks of shale gas extraction.
the eu has no commercial exploitation and the availability of reserves has not yet been demonstrated, so environmental and public health issues must take priority over economic aspects.
funding for projects aimed at increasing competitiveness, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, promoting research and innovation, investments aimed at job creation, as well as supporting measures to combat climate change, will need to be significantly increased.
i believe that, although such extraction is associated with many environmental risks, it is necessary to examine and identify the potential of this energy source for the energy industry of the european union.
in the present situation, when it is necessary to find a way of diversifying energy sources, we should also consider this possibility.
i also agree that the principle of subsidiarity should be applied in this case, so that member states themselves can determine their own energy mix.
i also expect that any extraction will take account of european environmental standards.
− gas will play a crucial role in transforming the energy system and reducing emissions through existing technologies until at least 2030 or 2035. lng and other unconventional gas sources have become a potentially important new source of supply in europe and surrounding countries.
the extraction of unconventional hydrocarbons, mainly shale gas but also shale oil, has led to unprecedented and radical changes in world energy markets in recent years.
it is important to monitor regulatory regimes and practices around the world and to identify and address concerns regarding the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction.
these concerns relate to the potential consumption of large quantities of water, the potential chemical pollution of groundwater and especially drinking water, waste water treatment and the risk to surface water, the storage of logs extracted, site-specific impacts, seismic impacts and possible greenhouse gas emissions.
activities affecting the public and their health and the environment as a whole therefore require a transparent public debate on the economic benefits, but also on the potential risks to human health and the environment.
in the absence of sufficient transparent data on fissile chemicals and the environmental and health risks associated with hydraulic fracturing, it is necessary to develop independent scientific studies on the long-term impact of specific extraction methods on water and air pollution and, in particular, on human health.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the environmental impact of the proposed measures.
it should be borne in mind that the possible extraction of the gas in question on its territory would ensure a certain energy independence for the countries.
given the many risks to human health and the environment arising from shale gas extraction, i am in favour of a thorough integration of environmental legislation in national states.
however, there are concerns about the environmental impact of mining.
the potential for large-scale water consumption, chemical pollution of groundwater and especially drinking water, waste water treatment and surface water risks, storage of logs, site-specific impacts, seismic impacts and potential greenhouse gas emissions.
they rightly expect the committee to exercise their rights as citizens of the union and, in particular, to defend their natural environment, health, freedom of movement, dignity, fundamental rights and freedoms.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we have to decide in this case whether we want to meet our environmental objectives as stated in the 2020 strategy and strive for the fastest and most efficient deployment of renewable energy sources, or we want to protect the profits and economic interests of those companies that cannot compete fairly with the much cheaper and more accessible chinese production.
i could not support the motion for a resolution because it does not take into account the contribution of slovakia and other new member states to the european union to reduce emissions.
these countries have fulfilled their commitments under the kyoto protocol, helping the european union as a whole to take the lead in the fight against climate change.
− if you have the action plan for salmon adopted in 1997 by the international baltic sea fisheries commission came to an end in 2010. the contracting parties to the baltic sea environmental protection commission (helcom) are urging the eu to develop a long-term management plan for farmed salmon.
directive 2000/60/ec, which sets the scope of european union action in the field of water management, aims to protect, conserve and improve the aquatic environment in which salmon undergo part of their life cycle.
on the basis of scientific advice, it is likely that genetic contamination of the salmon stock may cause a decrease in the survival and occurrence of the original stock and impair the genetic capacity to cope with diseases and changes in local and environmental conditions.
however, in view of the fact that no political agreement was reached, this proposal was withdrawn in october 2010. the technical measures provided for in regulations (ec) no 43/2009 are important from the point of view of the sustainability of fisheries and it is necessary to ensure their continuity.
however, a mere temporary suspension of the application of those measures would have negative consequences for the conservation of the stocks covered by those measures as well as for the ecosystem of vulnerable deep-sea habitats and seabirds.
finning is unacceptable from an environmental point of view (it threatens the sustainability of some of the shark species that are subject to this practice), as well as from a social and economic point of view (it represents the waste of food with commercial value) and from a moral point of view (it represents an act of absolute disregard for the life of an animal).
− the decisions on the durban platform for enhanced action (the durban package) recognise that climate change is an urgent and potentially unavoidable threat to human communities and the planet and thus require all parties to address it at international level.
the durban package has in principle laid the foundations for a comprehensive, ambitious and internationally legally binding agreement by all parties to be reached by 2015 and to be implemented by 2020. i believe that the doha conference (cop 18) should build on the momentum achieved in durban to ensure that efforts to reach such a global legally binding agreement continue and are achieved by 2015. global innovation in sustainable energy at the level of production and at the level of users is creating jobs, stimulating economic growth and increasing energy independence, and ensuring a cleaner world with climate change mitigation and sufficient energy supplies.
i think that the eu should take a leading role in climate protection in order to demonstrate the seriousness of its efforts and in view of its technological and economic capabilities.
enlargement is a success for the eu and europe as a whole, as it has helped to overcome the cold war-era divisions, contributed to peace, stability and prosperity in europe, strengthened conflict prevention, promoted reforms and contributed to the consolidation of the area of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, as well as the market economy and social and environmentally sustainable development.
given the ever-changing internal environment of the eu, it is necessary to consider social and economic indicators and to give a voice to civil society in the enlargement process.
the security challenges of today include a number of complex and changing dangers, such as international terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, state fragmentation, stagnant and unending conflicts, organised crime, cyber threats, energy scarcity, environmental degradation and related security risks, natural or man-made disasters, pandemics and many others.
natural disasters caused by climate change are highly destabilising, especially for vulnerable states.
populations whose access to drinking water and food is impaired by natural disasters caused by climate change are forced to migrate, placing an undue burden on the economic, social and administrative capacities of either vulnerable regions or poorly functioning states.
− council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 established a community system for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
the common fisheries policy should ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities contribute to sustainable environmental, economic and social conditions in the long term.
the objectives for fisheries were set in the decision of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity on a strategic plan for biodiversity 2011-2020. the common fisheries policy should ensure consistency with the biodiversity objectives adopted by the european council and the objectives set by the commission, in particular with a view to achieving maximum sustainable yield by 2015. i believe it is important that the management of the cfp is based on the best available scientific advice, broad stakeholder participation and also a long-term perspective.
the committee on industry, research and energy is the rapporteur for the opinion.
the single protection scheme will have a positive impact on the business environment and contribute to the completion of the internal market.
− regulation (ec) no 106/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 january 2008 on a community energy-efficiency labelling programme for office equipment implements the energy star programme in the union under the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european community on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
at the same time, i consider it necessary to update the references to the union quality labelling or certification schemes established by directive 2009/125/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 21 october 2009 establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-related products, directive 2010/30/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 19 may 2010 on the indication by energy-related products of the consumption of energy and other resources on labels and standard product information and regulation (ec) no 66/2010 of the european parliament and of the council of 25 november 2009 on the eu ecolabel.
− as with other energy consumers, energy efficiency labelling is also important for office equipment.
this regulation implements the energy star programme in the union under the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european community on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
the regulation updates previous directives of the parliament and the council on the environmentally friendly design of energy-related products.
it will provide a new perspective on the promotion of energy efficiency criteria, the functioning of the energy star board of the european union, the preparatory procedures for the review of technical criteria, and the evaluation and review.
it also allows for the operation of other existing and new voluntary energy-efficiency labelling schemes for office equipment in member states in parallel with the energy star programme, so as not to hinder new innovative processes.
− regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 of the european parliament and of the council of 27 june 2002 established the european maritime safety agency to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and to prevent pollution from ships.
in addition, the monitoring and data collection by the agency should also gather basic information on potential threats to maritime transport and the marine environment arising from offshore oil and gas exploration and production.
the substance of the agreement is economic, but it also contains an enforceable human rights clause and a chapter on sustainable development, covering the ilo's main labour standards and international environmental protection agreements.
disagreements between the andean countries on the approach to a number of key trade issues to be covered by the proposed agreement unfortunately led to the breakdown of the talks in june 2008. new negotiations, this time with colombia and peru only, were launched in january 2009 and successfully concluded in may 2010. on the issues of the new trade agreement, our political group has always supported and promoted its human and environmental dimension.
the issue of noise standards is also addressed by another piece of european legislation the environmental noise directive, which commits member states to identify the main sources of environmental noise, to measure the impact of noise and to take appropriate measures.
the rapporteur welcomes the commission's report providing information on the implementation of the regulation, although he considers that the report does not contain a full assessment of the transport of animals in terms of all economic, social and environmental costs.
− the eu's evolving common foreign and security policy, as well as its energy policy, should include russia as a strategic partner, in accordance with the principle of conditionality, provided that it also applies and promotes the fundamental values on which the union is founded, including democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equal treatment and solidarity, and compliance with the principles laid down in the un charter and international law.
such an action plan should also take into account ways of addressing and mitigating the high energy and raw material costs that threaten the competitiveness of the steel industry.
energy efficiency and resource efficiency can contribute to significant cost savings and in this context it is necessary that the commission and the steel industry itself continue to examine the options available for concrete steps to achieve cost savings.
− the petitioners have strongly expressed their concern about the extremely high level of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel plant in taranto, which has had and continues to have harmful and lasting effects on the health of the local population.
up to 20,000 families have members who worked in or were involved with the steel industry, and pollution levels among the local population have led to unacceptable and intolerable levels of disease and chronic illness.
the fragile and dangerous situation of ilva steel also causes serious environmental degradation and damage, as well as serious social and economic problems in the south of italy.
unfortunately, neither the privatisation of this steel plant has led to any improvement in the overall situation nor in the environmental safety of the sector.
i believe that the necessary effort must be made to link economic objectives with social and environmental priorities in order to build a modern, competitive and sustainable european steel industry that is fully in line with european union environmental legislation.
therefore, i think that in addition to the standard measures we apply in similar cases, aimed at consolidating and stabilising the social and political environment of the country, we should also promote measures to protect against the illegal exploitation of natural resources and the trade in raw materials thus acquired.
the non-prosecution of those responsible for human rights violations and war crimes promotes the climate of impunity and encourages the perpetration of fresh crimes.