and those of us who are evaluating the conference with a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions cannot, we cannot be satisfied.
we met with many representatives of these countries, and i didn't really get the sense that these representatives really wanted to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i also hope that in the future we will agree on a uniform system for calculating emissions, because if we do not have one, we will not know what the figures are, what they mean.
i am convinced that the relationship between christians and muslims is not a key internal political issue in nigeria, and i know that the vast majority of both sides want a peaceful, democratic and sustainable development of nigeria with full respect for internal diversity.
for several years now, we have been dealing with the financial and economic crisis, which has pushed sustainable development into the background of the media.
it may sound ambitious to talk about reducing emissions in these difficult times, but it's the right time to do it.
the targets for 2020 have been set, and we will only achieve them with the energy efficiency directive.
however, as the path to a low-carbon society is linked to investments in technologies with a life span of several decades, we need to show potential investors now what the direction of development of european society is by 2050. and we are leading the way to a low-carbon society.
for us, this is the way to develop technologies, invest in knowledge and innovation and sustainable rural development.
this means that every recalibration of it means a change in climate goals.
the ambition for higher targets is contained in the energy efficiency directive, which may be adopted by the middle of this year.
in this respect, several amendments have been prepared in cooperation with the rapporteur, and i invite you to support a realistic but still ambitious approach to the development of a low-carbon society.
these achievements show that the political drive behind the eu enlargement process policy continues to promote positive change and sustainable reforms.
ultimately, this gives a far better prospect to serbian citizens who are eager to live in a country where democracy and the rule of law prevail while its economy recovers and develops in the best possible environment.
firstly, serbia is expected to deliver on the key priority: making further progress towards a visible and sustainable improvement in its relations with kosovo.
i wish that serbian leaders would show as much will and energy in fighting corruption and standing up for the rule of law as verika barac, who has been left alone in this fight too many times.
the report stresses that companies should provide equal opportunities for men and women in training and career advancement, and that europe must do more to create the conditions and mechanisms in a social environment in which women can be mothers, wives and have a career at the same time.
i asked to speak because i want to say that i too agree that there are specificities in the relationship between women and climate change.
preparatory opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
− the iter committee reaffirmed in its opinion that environmental protection and economic development are not in conflict of interests, but that the coexistence of the two constitutes sustainable development.
biodiversity has not only environmental protection and a healthy environment, but also socioeconomic value.
biodiversity should therefore be given a greater horizontal role in european policies.
in energy and industrial policy, biodiversity is part of the sustainable use of resources.
the development of information technologies can also be an opportunity to preserve biodiversity.
science can help us to better understand biodiversity and the interaction of different factors.
in particular, we welcome the establishment of the platform for business and biodiversity and encourage the commission to further develop the platform.
we obviously share the belief that without a shift towards more resource-efficient management, we cannot expect sustainable growth.
sustainable economic growth is realistically more possible in times of crisis than in times of plenty.
we need to put more energy into communicating about prevention and about emergencies.
environmental health, human health, animal health, nature is only one, we only know it when we lose it.
we are the leader in clean technology, the leader in renewable energy.
we are leading europe by example, by the example we set, by the awareness of 500 million europeans about sustainability, about health, about a healthy environment, about a healthy lifestyle.
it's hard to talk about a low-carbon society in india when at the same time half a billion people don't have access to electricity.
but we can talk about the opportunity of solar power and renewable energy.
the european parliament and commissioner potočnik have invested a lot of energy and commitment to make global political commitments more tangible.
energy efficiency and this directive are very welcome.
welcome in terms of saving, in terms of economic growth and of course, an environment that is more friendly to our health.
but i would like to, and i understand that the way we think about energy efficiency is by looking at the whole forest, not just one tree.
energy efficiency improvements are considered to be the most effective measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and import dependency.
however, this directive will nevertheless have a great added value, as it is the first comprehensive eu legislative framework for more efficient energy use.
and there is another aspect i want to highlight: that it is now time for comparable economies to start taking comparable action, and that we must therefore be much more decisive in international climate change negotiations.
− finally, there is a strong sense of commitment to the improvement of the energy picture in the european union through mandatory energy saving measures.
i am glad that the directive also binds public institutions which are large energy consumers.
so my vote is for the strategic goal of saving energy.
the legislative text is rather weak, but it will nevertheless initiate the monitoring of intergovernmental agreements, leading to a more coordinated external energy policy of the union.
it is therefore good and necessary for the further development of the common energy policy that we confirm it.
the case is the energy agency, which has too small a budget in 2013 for both financial and human resources to implement the remit regulation.
compared to the us, we need to do more, especially in creating the right environment for researchers and private investors.
the energy agency is an example: the low budget puts at risk the implementation of the remit regulation, which is supposed to prevent misuse of information and fraud.
in a world where many people only wish to be able to live up to the standard and the environment that we have in europe.
it is time to devote less energy to competition within europe.
the report stresses that policy coherence for development is not just a legal obligation, but that the development of accountable, transparent and inclusive policies based on human rights is an opportunity for the eu to establish equal and sustainable partnerships with developing countries that go beyond development cooperation.
the worst flooding in the dravia river has shown that climate change is a fact that we have to adapt to.
in 2010, we imported 52.7% of all energy in europe.
there's been a lot of talk today about the united states and actually a real energy revolution there.
the exploitation of a relatively new energy source can also be used as a research and innovation opportunity.
why not become a european leader in the development of shale gas extraction techniques that use less water, no chemicals, recycle more efficiently and are safer or less likely to pollute the environment?
the concern for a reliable energy supply and high environmental standards would be the basis for new jobs for highly qualified young people, who in the current situation all too often find opportunities outside the borders of the european union.
so instead of saying no, let's take this opportunity to develop and export high environmental standards.
it is very important to me that there is a global agreement that the temperature should not exceed two degrees celsius, and this of course also has emissions limits.
the green climate fund was established, the technology transfer instrument was set up, and of course negotiations are still ongoing in many areas.
but the most important agreement on how much countries will reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and make a legal commitment to do so has not yet been reached.
climate change is a global issue.
in 2010, citizens voted in a plebiscite to support the constitutional changes that have helped the country on its way to parliamentary democracy, which is a challenge for the country and its environment.
it will, above all, enable smes to recover, in particular in terms of innovation, which will be cheaper as a result, and also because of the greater security of the legal environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the report highlights, among other things, activities that older people can participate in after retirement and the contribution they can offer in various forms, including volunteering, supporting family members, helping sick and vulnerable people in the neighbourhood (informal carers) and participating in political, cultural, environmental and religious activities.