i think it is good that we tighten up the regulations and make it difficult to export electronic waste, because as we have heard here, this is a very bad way to affect the development of africa and other poor countries that are forced to deal with our hazardous waste today.
i am concerned that this type of substance, which may not fall under the cut-off criteria, is being used more and more and therefore i look forward to the commission presenting a new proposal for a directive on the sustainable use of biocides, which will tighten up the rules also for the substances which are not as dangerous as the very worst.
i would ask you to imagine for a moment that if farmers were paid well enough for what they sell on the market, then the eu's income subsidies could actually be turned into investment capital for rural development, for the environment, for the climate, for animal welfare and for infrastructure.
it is unacceptable for the environment, morality and economy.
we must return to the farming culture of using our senses and common sense, of harvesting food and recycling waste.
asking for robust legislation at this stage would risk derailing this and undermining the climate of trust.
with today's more energy-efficient refrigerators, we could lower the temperature in the refrigeration chain to increase sustainability.
it is important to involve the food industry in informing how to plan purchases, store food and reuse leftovers to minimise waste.
we must create a sustainable, conscious and moderate consumption without compromising food safety.
a comprehensive and sustainable fiscal consolidation is necessary, as the ongoing debt crisis is also a fiscal crisis.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we need to put this dispute on competences into perspective in relation to the real issue here, which is that we have the responsibility to defend and optimise what is really a public good – fish and the marine environment.
there are, however, necessary strict preconditions that have to be met for a common issuance of bonds, for example a culture of stability must have been credibly established in the euro area and a sustainable fiscal framework needs to be in place, aimed at ensuring both enhanced economic governance and economic growth in the euro area.
i am therefore very pleased that we have been able to reach agreement on the creation of a working group in parliament with the possibility of involving external expertise in areas where we can learn a lot: buildings, maintenance, energy, the environment, procurement, travel and so on.
in addition to the economic aspect, there would also be major environmental gains if there were a common seat and the regular transport of personnel and materials between brussels and strasbourg were avoided.
fukushima was not only a human tragedy, but this disaster of course revived the debate on nuclear energy.
nuclear power is thus becoming more expensive, while renewable energy is becoming cheaper.
each country has the right to decide on its own energy sources.
however, the political responsibility now lies with us in the eu, with us in the member states, to show that an energy future can be made possible by renewable energy.
alternative and renewable energy sources are not seen today as sufficiently developed, as efficient, as broad enough, as something for ordinary industry, for ordinary societies, for ordinary citizens.
if we are to do that, it will require a huge investment in research, in development, in infrastructure, in actually developing this energy source in cooperation between the market and society.
the european parliament's annual tax report, for which i was responsible, states that broad and sustainable fiscal consolidation is necessary, but we must also focus on growth.
however, it would be a good thing if the report also highlighted the importance of statistics on employment, wage gaps, class differences and environmental effects.
no young person in the european union today wants to invest their future in a business that is not sustainable but is dependent on subsidies; if there were, consumers would not accept it.
fisheries have to be ecologically sustainable in order to be economically and socially sustainable in the long term.
the future emff must be designed and implemented in order to support the objectives of the cfp, especially the sustainable exploitation of marine resources.
in these times of budget restraints it is even more important that the entire european maritime and fisheries fund be geared for supporting sustainability.
such aid is not consistent with the promotion of sustainable fishing.
aid for the modernisation of fishing vessels is rarely in the public interest either, and while the idea of paying a ship owner to install a more energy-efficient engine which emits less co2 may be seductive, it is in reality impossible to ensure that the fishing capacity and effort are not increased when an engine becomes more energy efficient.
it must, however, be limited to measures which reduce the environmental impact of the fishing operations by such means as the conversion of vessels and gear to methods which are more selective or inflict less damage to the sea floor.
only in this way will the fishing sector be sustainable in the future.
i am thinking that iceland's membership could give the eu a more active role in the arctic and thus contribute to sustainable solutions in this sensitive region.
i am thinking of the eu's fisheries policy, where we could learn a lot from iceland's more sustainable fishing model in the run-up to the eu's forthcoming reform.
i am thinking of energy policy, where iceland, which gets almost all its energy from renewable sources, could make a valuable contribution through its world-leading knowledge of geothermal energy in particular.
however, i support the agreement reached at the un conference on biological diversity (nagoya, october 2010) which, among other things, called for the abolition of all subsidies that threaten fish stocks and the environment.
i can, however, support short-term proposals to ease austerity in countries that are particularly vulnerable, if this does not contribute to overfishing and has negative environmental consequences.
i believe that the original wto decision against the eu is based on a free trade principle which does not care about either environmental or social consequences.
now more than ever we need to invest in jobs and growth research, development, climate and education.
this is because i support the overall objectives of a budget that is restrained and focuses on sustainability and growth.
global emissions increased by six percent in 2010. in my own country, sweden, the increase in emissions was in the double digits.
first, the economic crisis has overshadowed the climate issue in terms of the priorities on the political agenda.
we've had a difficult time debating the climate issue.
secondly, the lower economic activity during the crisis should have led to lower emissions in general, but this has not happened.
and this crisis should have been used to make long-term climate investments that would help us get out of this economic black hole.
we have achieved some things in this political assembly: resource efficiency programmes and energy efficiency directives, which are about binding energy efficiency targets.
that's how simple and detailed climate policy can be.
i therefore call on the commission to take control of arms exports - that is what we can do here - and then to strengthen the protection of human rights in bahrain and to ensure that we have a process of reconciliation now in the country and that the wishes of the people can be met in a sustainable way.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the country has developed a strong and sustainable economy and has successfully used the revenues from energy projects to diversify various economic sectors and continuously upgrade infrastructure.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the energy tax directive is obsolete.
the tax regime must be adapted to the ambitious increases in energy and environmental policy that have taken place since the adoption of the directive in 2003. the regulatory framework needs to be adapted to new conditions on the energy market.
in particular, the discrimination against renewable fuels must end.
these fuels must be given the same conditions as fossil fuels if development is to be sustainable.
in addition, energy taxation needs to be coordinated with emissions trading.
an ambitious revision of the directive is a necessary element of a credible energy and environment policy.
all fuels are given the same chance in a volatile energy market.
tomorrow's vote is about the credibility of energy policy.
we cannot build a sustainable economy without a modern system of energy taxation.
the climate policy objectives we have are not castles in the air.
we have decided to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020. today's decision is about how we do that.
all the research shows that a price on carbon dioxide provides cost-effective emissions reductions.
the price of carbon dioxide is driving technological progress and the necessary social transformation.
every member who voted for our climate objectives should therefore support the principles of the energy tax directive, and vice versa: anyone who rejects this directive also rejects the objectives and structure of climate policy.
without this directive we will continue to live with rules that tax biofuels more heavily than fossil fuels, that do not provide cost-effective emission reductions and that risk double taxation due to the poor coordination of the emissions trading system.
the proposal we have received from the econ committee is not as ambitious as it could be, but it retains the key elements of the commission's proposal for a new energy tax directive.
there are livery belts and hammocks and airbags in this proposal for a gentle change in the energy tax structure.
nevertheless, tomorrow's vote is crucial, because it is about the credibility of decisions we have already taken on environmental and climate policy.
mr president, the main problem, if you take a global perspective, is not the use of energy as such but emissions as regards their effect on the climate and the environment.
we know that some energy fuels or sources produce lower emissions: renewables, bio-fuels, nuclear power, and that some emit more: gas, oil and coal.
the problem is, of course, that if we tax the energy more than the emissions, we are creating a situation where we are hindering the emergence of competitive new renewable energy resources.
the problem is that if we do not tax the environmental consequences, we get a situation – as has been mentioned in this debate – where diesel, for example, becomes more expensive than petrol.
but the main problem is that we have a system of taxation that is hindering the best energy sources while supporting the old energy sources.
that is the problem with this proposal: it is not doing these things straight by supporting the emergence of new energy sources.
many choose locally produced foods because they believe they are healthier and better for the environment.
for example, many people think they are buying climate-smart when they choose meat that is locally produced.
transport is a burden on the environment, but we know that in the case of meat, the production method is actually more important.
it cannot be taken for granted that locally produced and grown produce is always better for the environment.
in addition, women and children are more affected by the negative consequences of climate change.
it has been shown that women have a more sustainable consumption and are more likely to act climate friendly than we men.
women can be the key and driving force in developing new and climate-smart everyday innovations for increased energy and water efficiency.
together, we make a difference through responsible and sustainable use of resources in every household and every workplace.
the eu and europe must be at the forefront of harnessing the ideas, creativity and innovation of both women and men to best meet our climate challenges.
as several of my colleagues have also mentioned, it is therefore important to increase the representation of women in political bodies, for example, which can influence these conditions, for example in the climate negotiations.
in fact, this report is historic in that, to my knowledge, it is the first time that parliament has addressed climate issues from a gender perspective.
the report makes it quite clear that climate change is not gender neutral.
for example, men contribute more than women to climate change, but it is women who are most affected.
people's lifestyle patterns simply leave a larger ecological footprint.
women are therefore more sustainable consumers, but also seem to be more willing than men to take action to preserve the environment.
it is important that the report highlights the concept of climate justice, because today's injustices would be even greater if we do not tackle climate change.
the millennium development goals are therefore under threat because of man's environmental degradation.
it is also clear that the male quota that permeates all of society today is also present in climate change.
women are key actors in the fight against climate change.
several good examples show that training women saves lives in disaster management, increases biodiversity, prevents desertification and protects forests.
i would like to say, in the spirit of the commission representative, that when women take part in climate action, their position in society is often strengthened.
this report shows how women and men are differently responsible for the climate change that is occurring, and that we have different access to our common resources and are affected differently by climate change.
we are negotiating trade and environmental agreements, and the gender aspect must be included.
i would like to thank nicole kiil-nielsen for this report on climate policy.
this also applies to climate policy.
if our climate policy, which we decide on here by a large majority, is to become reality and not just empty words on paper, we need reports to guide us in the way this report can.
the 10-year environment action programme has contributed to a greater focus on the link between the environment and health.
firstly, we must continue to ensure that there is better coherence between the formulation of environmental policy and its implementation.
there have been clear shortcomings in the monitoring and inspections of the effective implementation and enforcement of environmental legislation in the member states.
or perhaps it is precisely because we need high environmental ambitions for economic reasons too.
they can be a lever for jobs and sustainable growth.
environmental aspects must therefore be integrated into all relevant policy areas, and there are many of them.
more sustainable land use would reduce the pressure on ecosystems and the services they provide.
internationally, the eu should also strengthen its potential with strict environmental standards and environmental skills and products.
environmental issues are simply no match for all the so-called mainstream politics.
environmental policy is the leaven in the dough.
the new environmental action programme must show that this is indeed the case.
− although i agree with the essence and majority of the text of the leinen report ‘review of the 6th environment action programme and the setting of priorities for the 7th environment action programme’, i strongly believe that competences in tax matters should remain with the member states.
we owe this, not least to the european taxpayers, who are entitled to the fact that we must find together an efficient and sustainable way of controlling the expenditure of our institutions.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
we support the authorities as they can help us to make our food safer, our environment cleaner and our planes and flights safer.
the rapporteur has done a good job of highlighting important aspects of the work and governance of the european medicines agency (ema) and the european environment agency (eea) respectively.
− the margin of error for the use of eu funds in the cohesion fund and the energy/transport funds increased by 7.7% in 2010. this was largely due to shortcomings in the public procurement procedure.
that is why i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the european environment agency for 2010. the rapporteur has pointed out a number of points where there was a breach: conflict of interest of the executive director which may have significantly affected the work of the agency, incorrect procurement of services and misuse of eu funds.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it has created a new europe a europe of mass unemployment, poverty and growing class divisions, while pushing back the drive for a better environment and gender equality.
the report refers to the krakow declaration, which describes the single market as 'the most powerful tool for restoring sustainable growth'.
however, the single market cannot in itself create sustainable growth and more jobs.
the basic principle and objective of the internal market should be the good of people and the environment, not the interests of big business as is the case today.
of course, it would be better if no catches were allowed at all, but i felt that this was still a step towards a more sustainable fishery.
i would also like to see clearer wording on the use of the proceeds for aid, environmental and social projects in developing countries.
it is important to recall that a tobin tax was tried in sweden and proved to be a waste.
as rapporteur for the committee on industry on this matter, i would like to stress that the promotion of sustainable consumption of resources is not a contradiction but rather a prerequisite for strengthening the industrial competitiveness of the eu.
we need innovative business models, research and innovation, a reuse market, an extended ecodesign directive and a faster implementation of the framework directive on waste.
long-term sustainable growth that is climate and environmentally compatible and which is therefore becoming an important factor in competition.
the redistribution of tax from labour to the environment, require a more in-depth debate.
at the same time, it is political values and decisions that determine the social climate in which wages are negotiated.
it is not the usual one, the one about agricultural protectionism or the talk about social and environmental dumping and it is not north against south, but here it feels more difficult because here it is often economies that are similar to each other that are to be met.
and with the help of the gsp, we can help developing countries in their efforts to achieve basic human rights, to reduce poverty and to achieve sustainable development in general.
i just want to mention something about gsp+, because it's the eu's system of giving additional trade preferences in exchange for countries committing, committing to live up to 27 different conventions for human rights and for sustainable development.
although i am in favour of cooperation with third countries, and especially developing countries, in the area of r&d cooperation and data-sharing of know-how transfer on clean and renewable energy sources, as stated in §78, and although i am generally in favour of an eu energy policy based on clean and renewable energy sources without dependence on fossil fuels and nuclear energy, i cannot agree with any further spending of funds on iter or any other fusion research, further reliance and investment in nuclear energy, and i definitely do not agree with energy exploration in the arctic region.
we are convinced that the budget is necessary to finance strategic investments in the internal market and its infrastructure, crucially needed in order to boost jobs, sustainable growth and competitiveness.
they are about welcoming the financial transaction tax, which i firmly believe is a waste for sweden and europe, and about new own resources for the eu.
it is the immediate, everyday environment of all businesses in europe.
our aim is to create, through this law and other reforms, the most efficient 'ecosystem' for business work, european mobility.
ladies and gentlemen, i am increasingly convinced that europe needs a regulatory framework adapted to the changing economic environment, to the needs of today's society.
it has been important for my group to maintain and, preferably, strengthen the protection of people and the environment when we are now revising this directive.
but my group would have liked to go a little further in terms of protecting the environment and people by extending the scope of the directive.
the environment party wanted to ban the use of these and also the presence of trace elements from them.
in my home town of stockholm, people were warned not to wet the floors because the waste water they got in their bucket contains so many dangerous chemicals that when you pour the water into the toilet seat, or wherever you pour it, the sewage treatment plant simply cannot handle the water properly.
of course, better cleaning can be demanded and certainly needs to be done, but the most important thing - and this report also shows this - is to tackle pollution at source, i.e.
the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
there are legitimate issues to be discussed and clarified about some rules on intellectual property rights in the digital environment.
it is about patient safety, research, aviation safety, competitiveness, the environment, safety at work, etc.
it is not surprising that those who do not want europe to fight climate change do not want the kyoto protocol either.
acta actually covers a bigger part of world trade than the kyoto protocol covers of world emissions of co2 so, by the same logic, are you against the kyoto protocol?
if we can have a sustainable environment for our animals, we can also reduce the spread of infection and, in the long run, reduce our dependence on antibiotics.
the new policy direction now creates opportunities to devise a long-term sustainable solution to the crisis.
it is just as much about accelerating the sustainable development of the economy and jobs in the long term and, above all, increasing growth-generating investment, both private and public.
to bring together the different parts of europe and to develop the potential that is actually being created by 500 million people in a single internal market, we need to be able to make strategic investments: in transport, in modern infrastructure, in the energy sector, in the digital sector, etc.
it is absolutely crucial to our success in achieving our goals of smart and sustainable growth for all.
in the transport, energy and information technology sectors, the commission estimates the need for eur 1 500 billion by 2020. this is a huge amount of money that the eu cannot mobilise on its own.
on criteria, mr turmes and some others have raised the idea of having other kinds of projects, such as renewable energy projects.
we have a completely unsustainable economy that is built entirely on non-renewable resources, and a massive shift to a green economy does not mean green growth.
the first un conference on environment and sustainable development was held in my home city of stockholm.
today, for example, there is a very broad knowledge and awareness of the environment and sustainable development.
roger helmer of the efd group is quite alone in his views, most others are aware that there are very big things happening in the environmental field that we have to deal with.
the problem is that the measures we have decided on so far at international or national level have not been able to hold back the rapid development but the continuing increase in environmental and climate pressures.
for that reason, i think the rio meeting has been a wake-up call, because it has clearly linked social justice issues with climate and environmental issues, and we must take that into account in our future work.
historically, growth has come largely because we've had cheap raw materials and cheap energy, but that's not going to be able to continue.
so it's important for us to show that we can break the link between higher living standards and increased environmental degradation.
for example, we know that it is profitable to make energy efficient, and i think it is time for us to show that this is possible.
the confusion over who bears responsibility when it comes to oil spills or dumping of toxic waste is already at a maximum with ships owned in one country, flagged to another, operating in a third and landing in a fourth, with a crew and beneficial owners in a fifth.
this is a cross-policy report, where gender equality, ecology and the environment interact.
sooner or later, however, a collapse occurs, because every good or service produced requires additional extraction of natural resources, such as water, energy or metals.
a green or sustainable economy is a system where we preserve the productive capacity of ecosystems, the carrying capacity of the planet, while meeting basic human needs for all.
so this is about a sustainable economy.
to create a sustainable future, we need to think beyond the market and its short-term perspective.
the path to the green economy, the sustainable economy, is mainly through changes in the rich world.
we are the ones who must create sustainable patterns of production and consumption.
the male ratio that permeates today's society must be completely changed in a sustainable society.
transport, consumption, food, welfare and representation are areas that are strongly linked to a sustainable economy.
these are proposals that could lead to a sustainable economy where women and men have equal opportunities to determine and influence the development of society, where the planet's borders are protected and where there is social justice between all women and men.
− mr president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, ms satu hassi, as well as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on transport for the excellent work carried out on this proposal.
it was already clear in 2005 that, with business as usual, sulphur emissions from shipping would exceed those from all land-based sources in the european union by 2020. in order to reverse this trend, the commission supported the international maritime organisation (imo) in developing internationally binding standards for the quality of marine fuels, which were agreed in 2008. this was a major breakthrough.
the new standards will bring very significant health and environmental benefits and will contribute to resolving problems faced by member states in complying with air quality limits.
that is why we have brought forward a set of measures to support compliance with the legislation in a staff working paper entitled the sustainable waterborne transport toolbox.
secondly, the directive will allow the use of emissions abatement technologies, such as scrubbers, or lng as alternatives to the use of low sulphur fuels.
i am convinced that this directive will contribute significantly to reducing air pollution and thus will have a positive impact on people’s health.
however, a number of changes introduced in the commission’s proposal during the first reading deliberations require the commission to make six declarations concerning: the revision of directive 2000/55/ec on port reception facilities for ship-generated waste and cargo residues; the use of the ‘non-opinion’ clause for the adoption of implementing acts; the use of dynamic reference to the imo on the establishment of new sulphur emission control areas; the use of implementing acts instead of delegated acts for sampling and reporting of marine fuels; the request to the commission to develop new measures supporting the implementation of the directive by the end of 2012; and finally the ongoing work to review the eu thematic strategy on air pollution to assess the costs and benefits of additional measures to reduce air pollution from shipping, including the impact of applying a maximum fuel sulphur standard of 0.1% in territorial waters.
as the commissioner pointed out, sulphur emissions from shipping will soon exceed those from land.
we can be satisfied with the environmental and health aspects, at least in the northern half of europe, because the requirements mean that we are taking a step towards treating our polluted seas, our seas which are in danger of becoming extinct, and therefore us humans, in a better way.
we should be aware that the requirements for emissions from land transport are a hundred times higher than those for maritime transport.
i think it is wrong to "grumble" that we ask them to either stop burning waste - which is what they have in mind now, that's what you can compare bunker fuel to - or that when they burn this waste they actually at least clean it.
the ambition of the socialist group here in the european parliament was to link energy efficiency with major investments in buildings and energy systems in order to help reduce unemployment.
we could have shown that we can take action, that we can link environmental and climate policy with the issues of social survival.
in fact, we have been given a binding target for end-users' energy use in the back.
- the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation; the particularly strict rules on sulphur emissions in the exposed seas of northern europe (the baltic sea, the north sea and the english channel) put many of the industries in sweden and other northern european countries at a major competitive disadvantage compared to the rest of europe, where higher sulphur emission limits apply, due to higher shipping costs.
reducing sulphur emissions in our seas is an environmental imperative, and one to which all 27 eu member states have already committed themselves by signing the marpol convention and its annex vi.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
that lesson is that the best way to let the fishing industry become economically prosperous is to rebuild fish stocks to a level above maximum sustainable yield.
it would give us a better marine environment and is consistent with a precautionary approach.
the international community at large had finally understood that development policies which do not sustain good governance are simply not sustainable.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is not sustainable to maintain benefits for countries which do not meet the criteria, but the commission's proposal is not a satisfactory solution to this.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in the long term, a solution which requires enormous costs every year and which, moreover, places a heavy burden on both the environment and the working conditions of parliament is unreasonable.
we must devote more political energy to combating violations of such values, and this must be reflected in the eu budget.
the fight against crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking, and support for research and environmental protection.
for example, we believe that agricultural subsidies should be cut more than in the commission's proposal and that a redistribution should be made to the structural funds and environmental and climate investments.
- we are convinced that the eu is needed to tackle common challenges such as climate change, organised crime and the humane treatment of asylum seekers in europe.
this means the financial transaction tax, which i firmly argue is a waste of money for sweden and europe.
- this spring, parliament voted, including myself, to suspend the discharge of the european environment agency.
that is why i voted to give the european environment agency a discharge.
i believe, however, that if we are to take europe out of austerity and recession back to sustainable growth and job creation, we need these new financial instruments.
children do not have the same ability to understand and they need an easy and child-friendly language from the industry … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we are again discussing the protection of children in the online environment and again it is painfully obvious that we barely know what we are dealing with.
i think this is the ultimate picture of the extremely greedy man who is drilling thousands of feet underground to crack the rock to extract the last remnants of fossil energy.
we should not waste the little capital we have for investment on extracting even more fossil fuels.
already discovered reserves of coal, gas and oil are so large that if we use them we would have a total climate catastrophe.
to waste money on finding even more fossil fuels is a waste of capital and environmental destruction and against the future of humanity.
we are calling for an update of europe's environmental laws.
it is about environmental impact assessments, waste directives and how we are going to manage geological stability, water use, land use and also classifying toxic fracking fluids as hazardous waste and classifying them properly under reach.
finally, it is important that we measure the baseline values so that we cannot make claims as have been made in the united states, where environmental information is contractually kept secret.
in europe, it is also illegal to withhold environmental information about gas leaks and other problems in order to keep it from the public.
we would therefore be investing heavily in another fossil energy source instead of expanding renewable energy.
what we as members of the european parliament must do is respect each country's right to decide on its own energy sources, but we must also uphold the precautionary principle.
we are going to insist on the polluter pays principle, we are going to insist on long-term sustainability, and that must be decisive for how we vote tomorrow.
it is about creating a european added value and the basic idea that the growth we are striving for is not just any growth but is based on the principle of economic, social and environmental sustainability, is about green jobs and smart and inclusive growth.
who will fund the completion of the single market including a modern cross-border transport energy and digital infrastructure if not the eu budget?
against the background of new devastating research on the effects of climate change no member state is big enough to mitigate climate change on its own.
even if some of us do not like common agricultural policies we must ask: who will finance the greening of agriculture and the greening of fisheries and the more sustainable development of those policies if we do not do it together?
the report emphasizes environmental considerations and the study of long-term consequences for the environment, water, air, etc.
the member states themselves decide on the exploitation of their own energy resources, but at the same time i voted in favour of strongly urging the member states not to authorize new activities in the eu related to hydraulic fracturing.
this is in view of the risks and the negative climate, environmental and health impacts as well as gaps identified in the eu regulatory framework for shale gas extraction.
i think it is important to point out that the extraction of shale gas and shale oil, which is a fossil fuel, poses serious risks to human health and the environment.
i would prefer to see no extraction at all, but continued investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
carbon footprint data) in order to make well-informed choices.
i understand that there is an economic potential for shale gas extraction and that the emphasis is therefore on adapting systems, investments, regulations, legislation, etc., but not at the high human and environmental cost.
at the cancún climate summit, the 1.5°c global temperature goal was described as the limit that the earth could tolerate without too dramatic consequences.
in durban, it was changed to the 2 degree target, and earlier this week, the forecast came out that today's climate policies are leading us to 4 degrees of warming, which is a very scary figure.
in the almost unanimous vote in the committee on fisheries, colleagues supported, and to a large extent improved, my draft report, so that it now clearly sets out the future principles for the eu external fishing fleet and how it can be sustainable in all its activities.
i regret this and i really hope that those – even in the epp group – who want to see the eu leading by example on issues relating to environmental sustainability, fair trade and respect for human rights, will not try to delete the paragraphs in question.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
this is important and i am pleased that the committee on fisheries has approved many of the proposals of the committee on the environment, particularly with regard to the 80% reproductive capacity target and to stricter and clearer regulation of recreational, domestic and sport fisheries, as these account for a significant proportion of catches.
in addition, it is good that we have improved reporting systems in general, and what i lack in the report of the committee on fisheries is what we approved in the committee on the environment, namely to stop sea fishing, because it is not selective.
this could be the beginning of the salmon's recovery, and it's not just good for the environment.
so this is really not sustainable.
what we are doing is not sustainable; we are making ourselves more and more dependent on fish from foreign seas, and this is not how the eu should proceed.
it is not just european solar production that is at stake, but also trade relations with china and our energy and climate policies.
because these are not the only anti-dumping duties we have on renewable energy.
i therefore call on the commission to make the overall assessment it is required to make in this inquiry, to take the community interest seriously and to examine the implications of this also for our energy and climate policy.
the innovation climate is improved by making the patent easier and cheaper to manage.
the eu's europe 2020 strategy is entirely dependent on adequate and credible funding if we are to tackle tasks such as the fight against youth unemployment, long-term unemployment, investments in sustainable development, etc.
europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we need to use it for long-term investments, especially in those that are important for the climate and the environment.
however, the ultimate issue of climate is not just political goals, but also political-social goals.
we cannot compete with china or with other parts of the world with low wages, with things that are not climate-smart production.