mr monti considers a number of energy and climate-related taxes and levies to be suitable for financing the eu, but also business and transport taxes are suitable as sources of revenue for the eu budget: a harmonised corporate tax, a uniform vat, a bank levy - banks will be happy to see another levy - and the financial transaction tax discussed today, which can be a very important item for a budgetary statement.
the commission is not i would like to congratulate you, commissioner šefčovič, on your initiative for the energy union, because i believe that you are making a very important contribution to bringing the objectives of the energy union closer to the member states of the european union and to the european citizens.
the objectives of the energy union are important, namely to increase the security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness of the member states, towards a resource-efficient economy, decentralised models and modern generation technology - as you said: to contribute to the modernisation of the economy with new investment platforms.
i think that is very important, as are the ambitious objectives of the winter package, namely to make europe the world leader in renewable energy, to increase energy efficiency by 30% and to focus on the consumer so that the consumer can benefit from lower prices.
the present report proposes to remove the energy-intensive stone and ceramic industries from the carbon leakage list and to introduce border adjustment measures.
this is a cost increase of 20% of the industry's total turnover, despite the fact that the austrian cement industry has the lowest co2 emissions and by far the highest use of alternative fuels in the world, according to the world business council for sustainable development, and is a leader in innovative technologies for reducing emissions.
so carbon leakage is also investment leakage.
the debt-sustainability is then established and the next tranche of the assistance programme is due for disbursement.
i am simply interested to know what facts support the view that this agreement with canada, which will greatly accelerate and increase trade in both directions, is beneficial in the fight against climate change?
where can we deduce from this agreement that we will contribute to the co2 emissions reductions in europe and canada?
i still pay more for the same car on the same route just because i have an austrian license plate, pollution class to and from.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
enisa and etsi are key players here, and i can only congratulate both organisations that this initiative will really bring sustainable european successes for smes too.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i want to congratulate the rapporteur, professor krasnodębski, and the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for their excellent work.
the review of the iga decision takes place in the context of the energy union strategy, the objective of which is to give european union consumers – households and business – secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy supplies.
in the current geopolitical climate, the energy union is essential to stimulate the production of renewables, improve energy efficiency and deliver a more integrated energy sector, which can ensure the security of supply and a successful energy transition, while promoting investment, growth and jobs.
we are showing that jointly, parliament, the commission and the council attach great importance to bringing more coherence to our external energy policy, and that this external energy policy should be guided by respect for our internal rules and principles.
the current rules on intergovernmental agreements were agreed in 2012, and they require member states to notify the commission of their energy agreements with non-european union countries only after they have been concluded (ex-post).
one third of the agreements related to energy infrastructure or energy supply contained provisions that were not compliant with european union law.
the review therefore has two main objectives: to ensure full compliance of igas with european union law, thereby ensuring the proper functioning of the internal energy market, enhancing competition, and ensuring energy security.
and to increase the transparency of igas in order to increase the cost-effectiveness of european union energy supply and increase solidarity between member states.
this will increase our energy security and the functioning of our internal market.
i am convinced that this decision will significantly improve the transparency and coherence of the eu's external relations in the field of energy and strengthen the eu's negotiating position vis-à-vis third countries, especially in the gas sector.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not used as a fuel in the future.
but i think we are also starting today with the idea and above all with the vision of finally getting to a zero-waste society.
waste has never been as much of an opportunity as it is now, and i think we really need to take advantage of it and give value back to waste.
we talk about stopping climate change, we talk about being careful with our resources.
we need to create awareness that products can be used in many ways and that not everything that is waste should end up in landfills.
so, if we can all come together and create this awareness that waste can actually be a raw material, if we can create this awareness that with products that are easily degradable, we have products that are designed from the very beginning to be reusable, then we've taken a valuable step here.
with a single stroke of the pen, the president of the united states has jeopardized the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and women worldwide will suffer the fatal consequences of this senseless action.
i would ask you, however, to continue the spirit and the climate in which the negotiations were conducted and in which this meeting took place here today, in the preparation and subsequent adoption of these delegated and implementing acts.
it was a very constructive atmosphere - a climate aimed at having a regulation here that really meets these expectations of consumers and, on the other hand, of course, also meets the expectations of all honest producers, by not putting an undue burden on them.
written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by patrizia toia, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the use of the 470790 mhz frequency band in the union (com ((2016) 0043 - c8-0020/2016 - 2016/0027 ((cod)) (a8-0327/2016).
that was maastricht, that was a misconception of the euro, that was lisbon and it goes on to current developments, where attempts are being made to establish a banking union, an energy union and more and more centralism.
fear and uncertainty dominate the political climate, and calls for restricting important freedoms are growing.
do you think it would be possible to increase research on sustainable raw materials, now in framework research programme 9, in order to obtain substitutes for the minerals that would otherwise have to be imported?
the challenges facing the eu have grown from the crisis in syria to combating poverty in africa, from energy dependence to hybrid threats.
we need a coordinated approach by the eu member states to a sustainable, actionable and european security and defence policy.
i hope we will have your support for two more amendments tomorrow on the protection of lake skadar and our concern about 80 hydropower power plants, which need to be constructed with environmental impact assessments.
written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the report by ms kateřina konečná, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on 'palm oil and deforestation' (2016/2222 (ini)) (a8-0066/2017).
in all these products that we use every day, cheap, industrially produced palm oil is replacing some truly sustainable and, above all, home-grown alternatives.
i am also surprised that political groups in particular are falling for the palm oil lobby's campaigns here, and in some cases are also demonizing animal products and animal fats, which are produced to much, much better and more sustainable standards, especially in europe.
we could reduce our carbon footprint and also create more regionalism.
the examples we have heard today show that the idea of sustainable management is being taken to the extreme.
we see that not only people are being harmed here, but also nature and biodiversity.
until now, the sustainability compact, which is supposed to improve the situation in the garment industry, labour rights and factory safety, has not been implemented as much as it should have been.
we now turn to the european fund for sustainable development, which is more of a guarantee, a kind of guarantee.
but the court of auditors' reports, all the work, the examination of the employment agencies have shown that they are very valuable instruments for implementing the demands we have as a european organisation, whether in the field of the environment or in the field of health.
welcomes also the importance attached by the eib to research and development, climate protection, innovation and competitiveness and the fight against youth unemployment; in 2015, around half of all new projects were dedicated to climate change.
and, as president hoyer said, the eib is a world leader in climate action.
a new capital increase for the eib, as mentioned in the kyrtsos report, therefore seems particularly appropriate, not only in the context of sustainable development cooperation, but also to close the investment gap in the eu.
the production also produces what we are warning about everywhere, namely additional co2 emissions.
we heard it today: if food waste were a country, it would be the third largest country on the planet, after the united states and china.
we need a legal framework and we need the means to achieve a real halving of this waste by 2030.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal.
because we think we're the only ones saving the planet, or because something other than eco-waste is not on the minds of cyclists and railway commuters?
environmental penalties do not benefit the environment, but better technology does.
the challenges facing european road transport are many: emissions reduction, new drives, automation, digitalisation - these are all areas that play a major role.
there can be no further negotiations with south korea as long as south korea does not fulfil its obligations to protect workers and does not take the sustainability chapter seriously.
but this example also shows us that in the future, all trade agreements must have sanctions mechanisms in the sustainability chapter, because we cannot move forward with voluntary action.
these proposed measures do not help the environment, nor do they help the farmers - who can only be helped by better technology.
and mr storch said it: there is also something from the european union which does not contribute to improving the climate, even in europe, namely the obligation to label jewish products.
question no 3 by mr von wogau (h-0418/97) subject: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work my question is: how do you think the sustainable development goals, number 6, could be applied to this new strategy, particularly in the water sector, and how could this strategy be further strengthened to achieve the objectives sooner?
the aim of this cooperation is to jointly develop innovative solutions for water and food supply, thereby making the supply more efficient, cost-effective and sustainable.
in line with the priorities of horizon 2020, the general and overarching objective of prima is to build research and innovation capacity, and to develop know-how and joint innovative solutions for sustainable agricultural and food systems and an integrated water management in the mediterranean.
it is hard to believe how many noble climate saviours there are here, when you walk through the garage of the house and see the many six-cylinder and eight-cylinder vehicles with correspondingly high emission volumes.
let us take a closer look at this climate agreement, which you so enthusiastically celebrate.
and the real objective of promoting renewable energy has been neglected.
the political climate between the eu and the us has deteriorated since donald trump took office; now the us president is also making clear his views on global climate and its protection.
trump's announcement to withdraw from the paris climate agreement is a step backwards for international efforts to control climate change.
in this regard, it is shocking how recklessly trump is putting at risk the hard-won paris climate agreement.
even if trump thinks he can ignore all the science on climate change, the decision will ultimately have significant implications for the environment and international relations.
because despite trump, climate action must continue and be expanded - as far as possible - with more ambitious targets.
this announcement also means that europe can no longer count on the unpredictable us president even in such an important issue as the fight against global warming.
we need a stronger investment climate in europe, and we need innovation, because we haven't closed the gap yet - but we are on the right track.
this requires a joint effort by the commission and the member states, as many of the factors affecting the competitiveness and sustainability of industrial workers are the same.
these are too little investment, difficulties in accessing finance and markets, high energy prices, high administrative and administrative burdens and, now more than ever, particularly in the field of digitalisation, lack of training content.
member states are particularly called upon to provide the tax environment for businesses, to reduce administrative burdens through modern corporate taxation, to invest in and promote research and development, to develop transport, energy and communication infrastructure - in particular digital infrastructure for industry 4.0 - to implement structural reforms and to pursue responsible fiscal policies.
the european union is also committed to the development of a common energy and climate strategy, and to the development of a common energy and climate strategy.
i am pleased that the european commission, under the leadership of vice-president timmermans, has committed itself to helping member states meet the un sustainable development goals and that it will provide data to measure progress in implementation - and you have reiterated this today.
they have performed on some of the industry committee's issues, namely energy efficiency labelling, harmonisation of the 470-790 mhz band, portability, the wifi initiative and - most importantly - the end of roaming charges.
on the contrary, it will attract investors, those investors who want sustainable businesses and who want to invest in sustainable businesses.
that is to say, we want sustainable companies that contribute to the tax systems and the welfare state.
the commission has already said that small and mediumsized enterprises from the european union and those in our neighbourhood and in the least developed countries must of course have a chance to work together in the future, with a particular focus on renewable energy.
we have fixed this 28% financing for climate change, that we can create digital markets there, that education and training are established and that above all the sanitary conditions with water, sewage are improved, especially in hospitals, that the social component is also the focus.
i had the opportunity to speak to 10-year-olds at a democracy workshop about the sustainable development goals, and one of the questions they asked me was, "why haven't you done this before?"
ignorance of what we are doing is no longer an excuse, and the wording of the 17 sustainable development goals shows that we care about the future of our children, the future of future generations.
this own-initiative report is a valuable guide to action in the fight against hunger and poverty, for health and welfare, for equality, education, employment, climate and environmental protection.
as already mentioned, geographical location of the outermost regions is of particular interest for research on climate change and biodiversity, and this is another strength to be highlighted.
we greens are naturally strongly in favour of sustainable energy self-sufficiency in these areas, particularly the development of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and the development of the circular economy.
however, the ecj judgment also states, in paragraph 161, that a breach of social and environmental agreements could lead to the suspension or termination of the agreement.
this would enable effective enforcement of labour law, social and environmental standards.
the geographical balance must be ensured and the sustainability must be ensured so that all europeans can join the gigabit society.
mr president, i would like to ask my colleague, mrs kumpula-natri, whether she believes that russia's accession to the energy charter could lead to a significant improvement in relations.
this is why development aid must always go hand in hand with the building of sustainable political and economic structures.
but if we can find 1,000 european cities that partner with 1,000 african cities, and collaborate on everything from building and operating a hospital to waste management to agriculture, we will make tangible improvements for the individual.
we want a socially just, ecologically sustainable union so that citizens can finally believe in it again.
the manufacture of electric motors and the manufacture of these batteries is not particularly sustainable and environmentally friendly.
i don't want to see the limits on diesel now or anything like that, but i want us to just find a fair access and see that we're really creating something that's good for people and good for the environment.
this is another issue - environmental protection, health - on which most europeans say that this is the task of the european union.
we know that in austria alone 8 200 people die every year from air pollution, 20 to 30% of which is also caused by diesel vehicles.
i am thinking here of the energy-saving sector, and i think that this is something that needs to be considered.
i see it as our duty to do two essential things: one is to protect the environment and health, and the other is to respect our legal principles.
we are not meeting the highest possible level of protection of health, and we are not meeting the highest possible level of protection of the environment, but we are also contradicting our legal principles.
i am convinced that if this one paragraph, which is the one we are talking about here, namely this derogation, is removed, we will very quickly find something that is in line with the rule of law and also the best protection for health and the environment.
but if we are to have a sustainable european economic policy, we need above all one thing: a break with the neoliberal austerity policy - on the backs of the working people, on the backs of the weak.
the 2018 financial year shall finance union actions that are primarily aimed at sustainable growth and employment in economic and social terms.
i am thinking here of the tobacco directive, but i am also thinking of the limitation of emissions from motor vehicles.
in order to ensure that the schengen area of free movement is sustainable and secure, it is essential that we manage, protect and secure our external borders effectively and that we have full knowledge of who is coming in.
the regulation had two things to reconcile: on the one hand, we want to draw an important lesson from the financial crisis and ensure financial stability, and on the other hand, we want to revive the european market and address the 42% decline in emissions compared to the pre-crisis level.
a strong, enforceable sustainability chapter, which protects workers, consumers and the environment, is also a fundamental pillar of trade policy.
social, labour and environmental standards must be more enforceable.
these agreements could be a model for future agreements, when negotiations are no longer conducted behind closed doors but are transparent and the issue of sustainability is given the same importance as tariff reduction.
we want public services to be excluded from the negotiating mandate, and we want to protect the environment, social and consumer standards, because they are not barriers to trade, they are important achievements for the citizens of europe.
for example, it is stated that enforceable commitments in the field of energy but also of state-owned enterprises are important as such, and this leaves a lot of open, of course.
i would like to highlight austria as a bad example of environmental liability, which we will discuss in the next debate.
however, efforts should also be made to extend the scope of environmental liability.
why isn't air pollution included in the scope?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat air pollution, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it.
i would like to mention a few cases that have been reported in the media - bad cases that are now in the papers at home: combustible waste deposited in a residential area in budapest, marine pollution off harku in estonia, pesticide pollution of groundwater in korneuburg in austria and fish deaths in mürz in styria after the commissioning of a power plant.
these are all cases that would be avoided if environmental responsibility were properly implemented.
but it is also about holding the big industrial polluters who are damaging our environment to account.
we've now got that supplemented by the un with the sustainable development goals.
first, where there are market distortions such as, for example, lack of environmental protection measures, child labour or state intervention in production, this examination leads to the composition of the import price.
the cost savings that exporters have made at the expense of the environment or workers can thus be offset by protective union duties.
this report focuses on enhanced cooperation between the eu and africa, in particular on enhanced dialogue on good governance, human rights and environmental policy, and on the condition that development aid is linked to respect for these issues.
we also need very clear statements in the future that the money from the common agricultural policy is being used to preserve and improve biodiversity and not for measures that may have the opposite effect in everyday life.
we need biodiversity as a cross-cutting issue in all areas.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
after three years of stagnation, global co2 emissions will rise again in 2017. that is a sad certainty.
the transport sector is still the main emitter of harmful gases in our cities and is responsible for a quarter of the eu's greenhouse gases.
the third report on the state of implementation of the energy union makes it clear that the energy transition is not possible without adapting infrastructure to the requirements of a modern energy system.
the main focus is on the development of transmission networks and pipelines, the decentralisation of pipeline systems and the interconnection of energy, telecommunications and transport infrastructure.
another building block for a successful energy transition and the achievement of climate goals is the clean energy package.
we are well beyond what is feasible here with the 40% energy efficiency target and the connecting targets in the member states.
i was very surprised yesterday to see that a very narrow majority - with one vote - in the committee on industry and energy voted for a 40% reduction in total energy consumption by 2030. if we think about it, if we reduce by 40%, then for a single-family house that is heated at an average of 20 degrees in europe, it simply means that we have to bring the temperature down to 12 degrees.
the problem is that, of course, with a 40% reduction in total energy consumption, renewable energy cannot be expanded as it has been until now, but that the expansion programmes must be massively reduced.
i believe that this 40% reduction in total energy consumption is simply irresponsible and that the population is not supporting it.
so we need to have a debate about how to achieve security for effective and sustainable development assistance.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we are increasing the financial volume of the efsi, we are extending it and we are improving it, based on the experience we have gained in the last few years in dealing with efsi i. we are improving funding, we are expanding the european investment advisory hub, we are anchoring a direct award of the eu guarantee to better integrate small-scale projects into big research ideas, we are ensuring that the very high-quality projects that are not carried out under existing instruments are supported, we are strengthening governance, we are ensuring more transparency, improved pricing and the implementation of the cop21 climate targets, and we are calling for further investment efforts because we are still lagging behind in investments in regions and as a continent.
the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) was set up by the european member states to promote private and public investment in energy efficiency, renewable energy, infrastructure, transport, health and digitalisation.
austria currently has six signed projects, mainly in the fields of transport (regional railway infrastructure) and renewable energies.
the commission has also identified a number of other projects for the period 2018-2020, including investments in energy efficiency, new school and hospital infrastructure.
from the war in syria to fighting poverty in africa, from energy dependence to hybrid threats, the challenges facing europe have grown.
the commission is not after 12 years of negotiations, numerous inspections and inspections by international nuclear energy authorities, president trump is now announcing with a hip-shaking that he will block and ignore this agreement.
we have already achieved that the social market economy is the sustainability, the european regulatory model.
so the call by french president macron, in reference to the us withdrawal from international climate diplomacy under us president trump.
our actions and our thinking will have to be faster and more radical if we are to keep global warming below 2 degrees celsius.
from the socialist group's point of view, i would particularly like to highlight the fact that we have succeeded in establishing public transport as the central reference point for sustainable mobility, in defining ambitious relocation targets and in highlighting the need for clear and fair price signals in all modes of transport in relation to international air and sea transport.