i would therefore have expected malta to use all its energy to mobilize this solidarity.
this is a key question for the future of work and for the sustainability and relevance of the european social model, and that is why the commission has included in its 2017 work programme an initiative on access to social protection.
the cooperative approach is also proving useful as a sustainable organisational model for smes.
we all welcomed the efforts made by this government and the national assembly to build peace and reconciliation in a fragile and haphazard environment at the international donor conference in brussels.
and we must do the same in this dossier, because we must not forget that on the other side of the ocean there is also a negative wind when it comes to climate and energy, and so we need our own, self-assured policy.
you know our ambitions to set higher targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy, targets which are also binding.
we had an interesting debate last week in the itre committee on how we should approach the energy union.
for example, in my country alone, there is a 4.38 billion euro bill waiting to be paid to adapt our energy system to the new targets by 2030, and that is not even taking into account the cost of efficiency.
secondly, it is also important to make it attractive to invest in energy efficiency.
to this end, it should be possible to adapt eurostat's accounting rules to spread energy efficiency investments over different financial years, if necessary.
we must of course respond to this growing concern in europe about the use of chemical pesticides and the risks they pose to health and the environment.
our request is clear: first, that the commission submit a legislative proposal to us to set up an accelerated procedure for the approval of biopesticides before the end of 2018 and thus make a more varied offer available to farmers who choose sustainable; secondly, and for amateur gardeners this time, but it's also important, make biopesticides the preferred option alongside other non-chemical methods.
it gives incentives to stakeholders from industry and the power sector, and it supports the best performers – those performers that strive for innovative and sustainable production techniques.
but, at the same time, the new emissions trading system (ets) and, in particular, the additions made during the vote by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, give guarantees to those sectors that are confronted with fierce international competition.
currently, a lot of attention is focused on the so-called carbon adjustment mechanism and, in particular, the fact that it will be targeted on particular sectors such as lime and cement.
therefore we propose to support the proposal adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy, which is moderate and could be acceptable to all.
mr president, to reduce co2 emissions substantially, we need an emissions trading system that is efficient, balanced and innovative.
if we are to put the paris agreement into practice, the carbon market must work better and more efficiently.
for example, we need to encourage a more robust price for co2 climate-friendly investments and create an important balance in this process.
the reform must protect the climate and jobs, and that is essential.
when companies leave europe for third countries where climate regulations are less strict, we lose twice: the jobs are gone and we're doing nothing for the climate.
a low-carbon europe is not only achieved through a workable system of emission allowances, but also requires innovative solutions.
our policy choices must be sustainable, efficient and effective, so that they can last for decades.
we need stability, especially in the current economic and political climate.
it calls for greater attention to the sustainability of budgets.
i am particularly grateful to the rapporteur, mrs toom, for including social concerns in her report, such as the strengthening of the youth guarantee, the importance of education policies, support for micro-enterprises, ensuring the sustainability of social security systems and the participation of the social partners in the semester.
that is why we are proposing amendments for tomorrow's plenary session, for example on the question of trade union law and collective bargaining, which guarantee better social cohesion in the field of work, a decent minimum wage, the fight against the wage gap, the quality of employment and access to a public pension system that is dignified and sustainable, but not only sustainable in terms of longevity, but also in other areas of the working world.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety recommends, by a large majority, that ceta be adopted.
i also expressed my concern as rapporteur about the provisions on chemicals legislation, the negative list on public and social services, the undermining of standards on pesticide residues, the regulations on endocrine disruptors, the threat of the rich-to-poor approach to food safety and the harmful provisions affecting our climate and energy policies.
who can honestly believe that a country of 35 million people, whose democratic performance and social and environmental protection often exceeds the standards of many european states, could deviate from the economic, social and political model of the world's leading economic power?
we're going to vote a "business as usual" deal; an agreement that gives more rights to multinationals; an agreement that weakens public services, farmers, smes and the least exporting countries; an agreement that puts investor rights above social and environmental rights; a covenant that is not a new generation covenant, but a covenant of the past.
today, the european union is negotiating major trade agreements that consider trade to be the alpha and omega of development, without first defining its positioning from an economic, social and environmental point of view.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we must focus on new control technologies and also on proportionate penalties for those who do not comply with the standards, which in turn contribute to a safer travel environment and shorter travel times.
you mentioned the social pillar, and, of course, climate change.
each european citizen produces about five tonnes of waste a year: the weight of an adult african elephant.
our waste mountain is growing, while precious resources are still too often lost underground.
this is not only good for the environment, it is also necessary to keep our economy competitive.
more recycling and making waste disposal a winding-up story is essential, but better recycling alone is not enough.
if we really want to shift to a circular economy, we also need to make effective use of less waste, more reuse and closing cycles through innovative business models.
i am thinking, for example, of our best practices, such as the concept of 'circular shops' to encourage reuse and innovative ways of recovering organic waste.
germany has the happiest workers, estonia produces the least waste and my country, belgium, is the european champion in recycling its packaging - more than 80%, 64% of it, close to the european average.
this means that we are interested in this circular economy package and that the targets set by the european parliament for 2030 in the packaging and packaging waste directive, namely 80% for wood and 90% for aluminium and glass, are clearly achievable.
i come now to what i wanted to talk about this morning, the issue of food waste: 80 million tonnes of food wasted every year, 400 euros of food thrown away per household.
beyond the ethical problem which is unbearable, there is economic loss, ecological loss.
in conclusion, it is therefore essential to vote for amendments nos 145 and 236 keep these two numbers to halve this waste by 2030.
let me begin, as many have done before me, by thanking our rapporteur, mrs bonafè, for her incredibly hard work.
this is essentially about our economy: how to change our economy, how to make it truly sustainable and, as the commission's assessment also indicates, how to create jobs, often local jobs.
because it can't just be about waste, it has to be about the design of our products and how our economy turns this into a truly circular experience.
there's a much more sustainable way to look at it.
we want member states to take preventive measures and reduce food waste by 30% by 2025 and by 50% by 2030. the total amount of food loss and by-products in flanders is about 2 million tonnes per year.
food waste encompasses the entire production process.
this includes food waste.
the circular economy legislative package integrates four waste laws.
it is good that the call for a virtually complete phase-out of waste disposal is being made.
by 2030, only 5% of our household waste is allowed to go to landfill.
this is ambitious, also because it is combined with a higher target for recycling waste (70%).
this is how you prevent member states from burning all the waste.
there is cause for concern when we see that the causes of migration - be it tyrannies, wars, resource depletion or climate change - are nowhere near disappearing.
we need a europe that puts the energy transition at the heart of its investment.
of course, it's a climate imperative, everyone knows that, but we also know that it addresses social needs, energy poverty, health needs.
finally, we need a europe that can steer globalisation towards social, fiscal, environmental and democratic convergence from the top.
in the present international environment, europe must do more to protect its citizens and contribute to peace and stability in its neighbourhood and beyond, including by committing sufficient additional resources.
for our part, the commission will continue our efforts to build an effective and sustainable security union, and i sincerely hope that we can continue to count on your support in this work.
we are affecting the environment and climate of the arctic and vice versa.
the resolution rightly stresses the importance of stability in the arctic for people, the environment and the economy.
it's very risky for the environment and also very expensive.
the challenges of energy security must not give free rein to arctic oil, on the contrary.
the transition to a low-carbon society, which reduces the eu's dependence on fossil fuels, should improve our energy security.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment.
this also has a direct impact on human rights: 207 environmental activists were killed between 2010 and 2015. the former fvo carried out 3 audits in 2016 and found that meat exports did not meet european export standards.
the large differences between car emissions in the lab and those on the road were known and there were indications of possible fraud.
however, the technology is already available to achieve the proposed standards today, also in real driving conditions and without negative impact on co2 emissions.
the protection of human health and the environment is a shared social responsibility.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution.
we must now prove that effective european supervision is the most effective solution in this case and we must not waste any more time.
but first, the investment climate must be radically improved.
a loss of time, a waste of energy, and i think, a stupidity.
delivering this requires us to face the trumps and the putins of this world, to tackle climate change, to fight terrorism and organised crime, to find common responses to the global migration challenge, to curb corporate power.
at the same time, for the eu-27, brexit must be a shared choice for a social, sustainable and fair european union.
the eu-27 must unite around a sustainable and social future.
the eu's role in the negotiations on brexit must therefore be to ensure that the climate agreement is respected and that social and fiscal standards are met.
you see enemies in the energy sector, in the media, in the ngos and now also in the academic world.
but instead of directing your anger at refugees themselves, you should direct your energy towards your fellow eu member states so that they help you in welcoming them.
i thank mr zeller for including in his report the recommendation and also the warning that the share of climate-related expenditure in the european budget is far too low.
we will then be unable to achieve the necessary efforts that we have undertaken internationally in the framework of the paris convention, the climate agreement.
the text put to the vote encourages the eib to continue its efforts to overcome the investment deficit, market failures and sectoral shortcomings and to invest in projects and operations with real added value in order to achieve a stronger european cohesion in economic, social and territorial terms, a more favourable investment climate, a higher employment rate and the restoration of sustainable growth throughout the union.
it also recalls that supporting economic recovery, sustainable growth and strengthening cohesion is a key objective and that the eib needs to better anticipate structural challenges, in particular those related to the reindustrialisation of europe and the digital knowledge-based economy, in order to generate new economic opportunities and innovation and to encourage the development of a circular economy and better use of renewable energy, in line with environmental, climate and energy objectives.
food waste is bad for people, the environment and the economy.
moreover, food waste is at odds with our ambition to move to a circular economy, where we are just fully committed to waste prevention and we try to reuse or recycle as much of our precious raw materials as possible.
the compulsory collection and recycling of bio-waste and the encouragement of home composting are also important in the fight against food waste.
in short: the fight against food waste is a matter for everyone and governments should set a good example.
it is interesting that social and environmental standards should be placed on an equal footing with economic principles.
if you are short of ideas, i will give you some: for example, tax conditionality, the fight against dumping, with the mandatory sustainable development chapter with sanctions, or the protection of investors, but not against the public forces.
we have created erasmus, the single market – which is, by the way, a free-trade agreement – and common action towards climate policy, and we are about to create the circular economy regulatory environment.
that is why the commission has proposed an external investment plan, because we want to influence sustainable development in our developing partner countries, for instance in african countries.
it may be cheaper now, but will it be cheaper if we take into account the full environmental cost?
they associate globalisation with job losses, social injustice or low standards in the areas of environment, health and privacy and fear that globalisation will erode their traditions and identity.
this is not a matter of mere perception but of bitter socioeconomic and ecological reality.
the commission says that after this debate we will be better able to 'offer sustainable and fair solutions that meet the expectations of the european citizen'.
these conventions, as has been amply demonstrated, will not contribute to more sustainable and social standards.
mr president, the fight against food waste is probably one of the most blatant failures of our european policies.
it is an unacceptable waste, even immoral, when we know - and they have been quoted - the poverty figures in europe.
the commission has no choice but to be ambitious, to put the gun to the fire and to stand with the european parliament in achieving our food waste reduction targets of 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2030. two points are essential: clarifying labelling, on the one hand, as has already been said, because 'preferably before' and 'up to' are real highways for waste, and thinking globally, on the other hand, if we want to reduce it from producer to consumer.
agriculture, fisheries, the environment, health, vat - all these sectors are involved, but we need a driving force, a real will, a real strategy from the european union.
the igad summit recognised the role and generosity of neighbouring countries in taking on the international protection of refugees, despite their own socio-economic, environmental and national security challenges.
the resolution calls for greater burden-sharing and sustainable solutions for social, economic and environmental development.
i want to talk about something that is related to brexit, and that is the future of the european union and the reform of the european union, because it would be a mistake to put all our energy only into brexit in the coming years.
at least the same energy, if not more energy, has to be put into the reform and the future of the european union.
similarly, rather than a bottom-up approach under pressure from business, globalisation must aim to raise, level up social, environmental and democratic standards.
but everyone feels that this growth is a sham, that it is not sustainable, that this monetary hocus pocus will have to stop at some point.
you can see that's not a sustainable policy.
deadly emissions, countless road deaths and increasing congestion are bringing the industry a bad name and serious headaches.
if this chapter on social and sustainable development were indeed binding, and if it also provided for sanctions, we could force korea to take a step towards respecting these workers' rights.
therefore, i think it is important that these checks be put in place fairly quickly, that there be this formal consultation procedure with korea and, above all, before any further work, i think it is necessary to require that country to return to this logic of sustainable development and respect for workers' rights.
secondly, on the day that donald trump is pulling out of the climate agreement, i want to say something about that.
transport accounts for 20% of emissions and that percentage is rising.
it is very important that we in europe take our responsibility and that we form alliances with the rest of the world, even if perhaps without the united states, to keep the climate agreement afloat.
the road initiatives contain a very comprehensive list of measures that are well balanced and represent a substantial step forward in the management of road traffic in europe, making it much more modern, fair, sustainable and future-oriented.
we have 50 million people working in transport-related industries, and we need to bear in mind how important it is for the quality of life in our cities and our rural areas, and how big a contribution transport can make to modernising and energising europe, and to a cleaner environment.
we had good experience, on the clean energy for all package, in working regularly with all the rapporteurs responsible for various parts of this package.
to conclude, i would like to thank you for your strong encouragement and for the clear call to work together on providing leadership on climate change, because here i am absolutely convinced that we europeans are on the right side of history.
the calls for a clean environment, for energy efficiency, for renewables, for modernisation and technological advancement of the economy, and for a high level of public awareness and citizens’ support, are very strong in europe.
energy efficiency is the best and cheapest way to achieve our climate objectives.
at the same time, it will encourage manufacturers to develop and produce even more energy-efficient appliances.
the consumer will save energy, which is good for our environment, and therefore spend less money, which is good for his wallet.
the legislation presented here today is an important part of the energy efficiency discussions we have.
the new energy labelling measures will enable us to achieve energy savings at european level equivalent to the energy consumption of the baltic states and italy combined, which is not to be underestimated.
this is one of the many measures we are taking which could help us achieve the european energy efficiency targets.
the proposals for the winter package on energy efficiency make it very clear that the european measures taken by the member states in the field of energy efficiency cannot be counted towards achieving their objectives.
there was no harmonisation of energy efficiency labelling for european household appliances.
we therefore propose a single labelling standardised from a to g to provide clearer information to consumers and to reduce their energy consumption.
85% of european consumers take the energy index into account when making purchases.
however, up to 25% of products placed on the market do not comply with energy labelling requirements.
the fight against climate change is a matter of effort, but also of opportunity, and everyone must play their part.
after all, climate is not the responsibility of government alone.
yes, we need a euro area budget to invest in particular in the energy transition, because, deployed in a counter-cyclical way, it will help cushion macroeconomic shocks, but it will also improve the strength of the european economy.
i hope that the commission, like us, will put the protection of human health and the environment first and come up with clear answers.
we always say do not waste a good crisis.
well, do not waste a good election cycle either.
when we have a vote on the effort sharing, when we discuss renewable energy, when we discuss energy efficiency, let us move up and make it more ambitious.
rest assured, trump is not the rightful representative of the people in the united states, because they do stand with the paris agreement and with combating climate change.
whatever the position of the united states, we have embarked on the path to a low-carbon, energy-efficient economy and there is no going back.
look at the reform of the ets, where we want measures to stop the carbon leakage.
i think it is really necessary for the authorities, especially local authorities, to be able to invest in productive projects, such as insulation of public buildings, because the consequences are positive for the economy, generating local jobs which, in turn, are not relocatable and in line with environmental criteria.
it certainly is not a magical weapon that can, on its own, close the investment gap we suffer from: create growth and jobs and put our economy on a sustainable and inclusive track.
the commission is, of course, ready to work closely with parliament and the other institutions to develop and implement policies that will address all the risks that can affect sustainability and prosperity in the union.
child poverty and social exclusion not only have a negative imprint on a child’s future but are also a huge waste of potential that our ageing societies cannot afford.
i think it is incredibly important that we do not focus on a few member states, but that we treat all ports on the same level and that we make sure that there are other criteria in the discussion, in particular environmental, social criteria, make sure that we have a very good logistics system.
it would be too long to list all the achievements and successes of simone veil, who was to chair the liberal group from 1984 to 1989. parliament had few powers at the time, but it used all its energy to support the major projects of the time: the single european act, the accession of spain and portugal, which thus entered our european family, and also the reforms that were to bring europe out of its torpor, which was then called the 'euroclerosis'.
for example, on global warming and the implementation of the paris agreement.
the commission's initiatives, which are worthwhile, for example in the field of clean energy, were taken before the implementation and evaluation of the implementation of the paris agreement.
that means we have to be more ambitious than those proposals and we have to actually translate the paris agreement into what we are doing here, for example by moving faster on initiatives around the co2 emissions of cars, and we have to do that very ambitiously.
so i would very much like the commission's work programme to put those kinds of initiatives - climate, sustainability, clean air - at the top of the political agenda.
there are studies that say we waste between 26 and 100 billion euros a year by not cooperating!
we need an eu which lives up to its obligations to protect the environment without stifling business, because it is jobs and growth which draw people out of poverty and prevent unsustainable economic migration.
one of the first and most important things we have to do in the g20 is to make sure that there can be, there should be, some kind of united position on the implementation of the paris climate agreement.
because if we don't address climate, these are the foreplay, the migration problems of today are the foreplay of tomorrow, and those problems are getting bigger and bigger.
we're working on a number of files, like the clean energy package.
the arguments have already been made and are well known: eur 114 million is the floor estimate of the monthly transhumance imposed by the treaties; 89% occupancy rate of buildings, which we invest only four days a month; two days a month, or 10% of the time, wasted moving, with disastrous consequences for the climate: 19,000 tons of co2 a year.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
the monthly move not only costs a handful of dollars, but is also a huge burden on the environment.
the end of that shuttle will save up to 114 million euros a year and reduce co2 emissions by 19,000 tons.
no one can account for a waste of 180 million euros a year and an additional emission of 19,000 tons of co2, the equivalent of 4,900 flights between berlin and new york.
whaling does not only undermine the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
and my delegation has always been in favour of including aviation in the emissions trading system.
this exception is bad for the climate, bad for the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
julie girling summed it up perfectly: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not affected by the increase in air pollution.
so i think we can all agree that aviation inevitably has to make a bigger environmental effort.
their sustainable management has an economic dimension and contributes to a better climate and air quality.
and my party, the n-va, is also convinced that forestry can and should make an important contribution to climate policy by reducing co2 in the air.
we therefore support the ambition to reduce net emissions from forestry to zero by 2030 and then move towards a positive balance, a necessary contribution to a low-carbon society.
sometimes for the worse: cheap, unprotected labour, environmental destruction, tax evasion.
the european union, as the world's leading exporter and importer of goods and services, can - and i would even say must - use its trade policy as a real lever to turn these global value chains into tools for sustainable development for all, and thus contribute to a fairer and more equitable globalisation.
at present, the lack of transparency and the dilution of responsibilities throughout this process increase the risks of exploitation of workers, non-respect of fundamental rights and promote unfair competition on a social, environmental and tax level.
to name just a few, i will focus, for example, on the inclusion in trade agreements of a binding but also enforceable sustainable development chapter, as well as the clause against tax evasion and tax fraud.
there are also initiatives inspired by conflict minerals legislation or the duty of vigilance of the enterprise within a binding duty of vigilance framework as set out by the oecd, or the establishment of a labelling system that ensures a production method that respects international labour and/or environmental standards.
we also met with both the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, where i was yesterday, and their suggestions, alongside yours today, will inform the ongoing response.
they want a reformed european union; 73% of our citizens want more european action on the side of migration; 75% want more european action against climate change.
i therefore commit myself to focusing all my commission's action on the twofold objective of reducing inequalities and reducing our ecological impact within the limits set by nature.
i am committed to ensuring that here every action, every legislation, every recommendation from my commission is screened for its effect on inequalities and our ecological footprint and that only those are pursued which will reduce them.
we will undertake a complete reorientation of our trade policy, which will henceforth have to make access to our market subject to the respect of social, environmental and health standards which we have freely chosen.
but i am not only proposing a europe that protects, i am also proposing that europe be the instrument by which we build our common future, and for me the only chance for europeans to find their place in a global economy is to become the pioneers of energy, industrial, agricultural and other solutions that will enable humanity to live sustainably on this planet.
but it was an optimistic speech with elements which we in our group will support with great enthusiasm, such as making the mandate in trade agreements transparent, taking the lead on climate, protecting our industry and ensuring that there is more democracy.
mr president, first of all i have to say that i am a little astonished to hear from my good ppe colleague that it is actually climate policy that is responsible for the cheating of the cars in europe.
it will be electrified, it will be sharing mobility, and if we do not make sure that we do that for our industry, if we do not make sure that we have a zero emissions mandate, then cars will be imported from china and elsewhere in the world and our car industry will have big problems, as will these millions of people.
let me finish by quoting a former commissioner, a liberal commissioner, who was very good, mr potočnik, in our committee on emissions measurements in the automotive sector.
let us make sure that we have a future for our car industry and that it is sustainable.
there are already some positive signs, such as the new improved emissions tests and the low emission zones in some cities.
the protection of human health and the environment is a shared responsibility.
the real driving emissions test, a much more robust and stringent emission test, has been in force for new models since 1 september, and that is of course positive.
in addition, a number of car models demonstrate that it is indeed possible to market diesel cars with nox emissions well below the european standard of 80 mg/km.
they are also well aware that they must cherish it and that they will have to make the switch to a more sustainable fishery.
it seems to me therefore absolutely appropriate that, after the very clear vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we should have a debate on this in this house.
if we want to limit the inevitable damage that will be caused by this lose-lose situation we should waste no more time, and negotiate in good faith.
– to avoid acceleration of further uncontrollable climate disruption, we must stay strongly committed to the full implementation of the paris agreement.
this clarity and certainty to all actors is crucial to build trust and help solidify confidence in the global commitment to climate action.
current ndcs will still lead to a global warming of 3°c.
we are therefore calling for a new definition of endocrine disruptors tomorrow, a definition which will actually protect public health and the environment.
you need a new governance to have a sustainable eurozone and to apply these rules.
however, it would be much more relevant to take account of all indicators, whether social, environmental or economic, and not just budgetary ones.
the proposal for a regulation under discussion today aims to ensure the functioning of the internal market for fertilising products, while ensuring that ec-marked fertilisers meet the requirements of protection of human, animal and plant health and environmental safety.
while fertilisers are obviously crucial for agricultural production, their use can also have a negative impact on the environment and food safety, especially when they contain contaminants.
the proposal for a regulation, on the other hand, initiates a shift towards a circular economy, as it aims to increase the reuse of raw materials that are currently disposed of as waste.
putting organic fertilisers on an equal footing with conventional fertilisers can reduce waste and the environmental impact of fertilisation and agriculture.
it is estimated that the recovery of nutrients already present in the european union, for example in the form of waste, could replace about 30% of the inorganic fertilisers currently on the market.
this is neither the place nor the time to rush to amend essential legislation to combat soil pollution.
today we can incorporate these flemish best practices into european legislation by opting for ambitious european end-of-waste criteria for bio-waste.
we need to turn the tide by separating bio-waste and recycling it.
the european arrest warrant has taken more than a decade to implement because of the unanimity rule; with the european patents we had to wait more than 25 years because of the unanimity rule; the same is happening for the energy union – we do not have an energy union because of the unanimity rule; we do not have a fully-fledged banking union because of the unanimity rule.
i am naturally thinking of the question of the ecological transition of our societies, which should be the union's main strategy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances is a very important one.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
the vote on this in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection was not entirely in line with the rules, with thanks to the left, which is always so adamant about respecting those rules.
mr president, on 17 december 2003 the european parliament took a major step forward in protecting the environment by adopting this directive on environmental liability.
protecting nature and biodiversity while focusing on innovation, on the technologies of the future, is clearly in the dna of our parliament, it is clearly in the dna of european liberals.
it was my friend and former dutch liberal colleague, toine manders, who was the rapporteur at the time and who was in the process of putting this community system for the prevention and repair of environmental damage on the water table.
whether it's gmos and the risk of unintentional contamination of conventional or organic crops, or the carbon market, created in 2005 to reduce greenhouse gases, the polluter pays principle applies every time.
in its 2016 implementation report, the european commission acknowledges that while the 2004 directive is effective in repairing environmental damage and encouraging prevention, it has not yet - to put it diplomatically - realised its full potential.
another category covered by the directive is soil pollution, which can have serious consequences for human health.
in conclusion, i would say - as others have said here - that we can of course strengthen environmental law, but for me the urgent thing is to apply the polluter-pays principle concretely and fully in european policies and also - this is our paragraph 29 - it is important, and this is what mrs ferrara proposes - to set up this european fund for the reparation of environmental damage, because the victims are counting on us.
as a sustainable alternative to road transport, inland waterway transport can also contribute to reducing the environmental impact of transport.
however, a secure online environment is crucial to strengthen their confidence in online shopping.
it is essential that europe engages with car manufacturers in the production of lighter and less powerful cars and establishes a regulatory framework that genuinely protects the environment and the physical integrity of all road users.
but now - and this is a step forward - social and environmental standards will be taken into account in the assessment of significant distortions.
i think it is time to finally meet our financial commitments to developing countries to support policies to support renewable and alternative energy.
investing in nature and biodiversity must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe.
protecting biodiversity is not only necessary for nature itself, but is essential for our well-being and prosperity.
the erasure of the biodiversity strategy will cost us 50 billion euros a year.
stopping biodiversity loss must be a political priority.
this is the key message of the biodiversity report that the european parliament adopted in february 2016 and for which i was rapporteur.
but at the same time, the plan is inadequate and insufficient to meet the biodiversity targets.
the environment committee has a number of clear and specific questions and it also wants to send a strong signal about what can and should be improved.
the action plan contains only one reference to the biodiversity strategy.
finally, the coherence between biodiversity policy and other areas such as the common agricultural policy, as well as cohesion policy, remains a major challenge.
how does the commission intend to integrate natura 2000 and wider biodiversity measures into these areas?
how does the commission intend to monitor the impact of the common agricultural policy on biodiversity?
for the health, well-being and prosperity of future generations, we must do everything possible to protect nature and biodiversity.
biodiversity is everyone's business.
but i'm not convinced that the package provides enough leverage to meet our climate commitments.
by 2030, our member states must drastically reduce emissions from the transport sector.
i have seen this in practice in my work on biodiversity policy, waste legislation and emission standards.
the commission's environment committee has made a number of recommendations.
for example, a fixed item on the council's agenda on the implementation of environmental legislation would be a step forward.
i therefore prefer that we devote our resources to exploring new markets, to introducing and promoting strong quality labels, to selling our fruit rather than destroying it, and to thinking about alternative models that do not encourage overproduction and waste.
we also call for support for investments in the context of the fruit sector's shift towards innovative and sustainable fruit varieties.
as european christian democrats we do not want the agricultural budget to be cut back, but rather to see more money allocated to invest in sustainable and innovative farming techniques.
madam president, mr commissioner, with one year to go until the presidential and legislative elections, all the elements of a pre- and post-electoral crisis are present: the seizure of all levers of power, the suppression of freedoms for non-governmental parties, a lack of good governance with a very high level of corruption and embezzlement of public funds, arbitrary imprisonment, harassment of journalists, including investigative journalists, and human rights and environmental defenders, failure to respect the principle of separation of powers, state interference in judicial affairs, extrajudicial executions, popular justice in the face of impunity of certain public security officers.
there is another case, that of mr ravela, who was given a two-year suspended prison sentence just for daring to ask for proof that a chinese mining company had been granted the mining and environmental permits necessary to continue its activities.
i welcome the additional resources obtained to meet the objective of devoting 20% of the current multiannual financial framework to the fight against global warming in accordance with the international commitments that have been made.
– madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his statement on the state of play on the energy union.
i want you to pay a lot of attention to the strong message this parliament’s committee on industry, research and energy gave yesterday.
there was a clear majority, supported by nearly all groups in the house, to raise the level of ambition on the deployment of renewable energy in our union to a target of 35% by 2030 –that is 80% above the target in the commission’s proposal.
the international renewable energy agency (irena) has calculated that the eu can double its renewables share from 17% to 35% in 2030 in a cost-neutral way.
if we accelerate our energy efficiency policies renewables can even deliver a higher share of remaining energy demands.
we voted for a 40% target on energy efficiency.
the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of certain dangerous substances.
moreover, emissions are also increasing.
flights within europe have been covered by the european emissions trading system since 2012. for international flights, that exception to the rule still applies.
i think we can all agree that we need to make every effort possible on climate.
i therefore insist that we must always strike a good balance between our environmental ambitions and the preservation of the competitiveness of our aviation sector.
following the example of the clean sky programme, this investment in research will give our aviation industry a long-term competitive advantage and will be a new weapon in the fight against climate change.
kazakhstan is a strategic partner in the energy sector.
the addition of new sectors eligible for efsi funding will enable more innovative smes to benefit from it in the fields of agriculture, climate change, cultural and creative industries, and the social and solidarity economy.
we have to make sure that companies working in the circular economy field, in artificial intelligence, in agriculture and forestry, and in energy efficiency, to mention just a few areas, use more efsi financing, because it can give better opportunities to invest in new innovations.
– mr president, sustainability is not just a buzzword.
therefore, reaching the sustainable development goals within the eu is vital.
some say that 15% is a good way forward in the 12 years to come, but if we know that we need 40% to get, for instance, the paris climate goals in place, then we know that we are fooling ourselves.
– madam president, i would like to thank members for their comments, and i would like to underline that the low-emission strategy will bring significant benefits in addressing the environmental footprint of transport in a comprehensive and graduated manner.
the transport sector has to contribute its share of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the process to the low-emission strategy will also contribute to making our industry stronger and more competitive, and it will help clean up the environment for citizens and improve their quality of life through better air quality in cities and reducing congestion.
we have already initiated a series of initiatives to support the move to lower emissions.
in order to effectively address emissions from international sectors, such as aviation and maritime, global solutions are needed.
in addition, there are preparations for an eu strategy on research, innovation and competitiveness that should bring together energy technologies, transport and industry and facilitate the development of energy storage solutions, such as the next generation batteries, and focus more on research into advanced bio and synthetic fuels.
this strategy therefore aims to develop a horizontal enablers’ programme as well, in order to create the right framework conditions for innovation and investment in the low-emissions sector.
all economic sectors need to step up their efforts to meet the paris climate agreement.
industry, energy, buildings, agriculture, they all need to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions significantly.
the transport sector needs to take action a fortiori, as it is one of the few sectors that has increased its co2 emissions in recent years.
they want co2 emissions from cars to be reduced by at least 40% over the next decade.
shipping and aviation also need to make much greater efforts, as co2 emissions are increasing exponentially.
it is good that we as the eu continue to exert international pressure to further tackle greenhouse gas emissions from ships and aircraft.
i also welcome the decision of the commission and the high representative to cut subsidies for democratisation, because there is no democratisation and so these european subsidies now look like a waste of money.