mr šefčovič, if you want to fly with your – or our – airbus 380 energy package, you must distribute as a good manager responsibilities to every member of the crew – responsibilities with higher priority than flexibility in each member state.
that is why i want to ask you, mr šefčovič, to initiate a revision of the european council decision not to set national targets which was taken in october 2014. i hope that after the change of that decision i can wish you a safe flight with that airbus 380 energy package.
climate policies must go hand in hand with preserving existing jobs and creating new ones.
the sectors most at risk of 'carbon leakage' and business relocation to third countries should receive sufficient free allowances to prevent job losses and the negative impact on the economy.
i also believe that the rules should be simplified for small businesses that emit small amounts of greenhouse gases in order to reduce the administrative burden on them.
i think it is important that countries with lower gross domestic product are financially supported to modernise their energy systems and improve their energy efficiency.
ladies and gentlemen, we are all convinced that the emissions trading scheme needs to be adjusted for the period after 2020 to make it more effective in achieving the goals of the paris agreement.
but we must not forget that imposing too large restrictions on europe's energy-intensive industries will lead to their displacement to countries with lower requirements, to the loss of jobs and income, but not to a reduction in emissions on a global scale.
let's take into account the fact that the eu contributes only 10% of global co2 emissions, and whether we reduce them to 7% or 6% by 2030 will not solve the global problem, but it could cause irreparable damage to our own economy.
finally, in a particularly dynamic sector such as the digital economy, we need swift enforcement and competition policy rules that create a friendly business ecosystem, nourishing new business models and supporting innovation at all levels.
as a member of the european parliament from a balkan country, i fully support albania’s accession to the eu and i am very happy that the foreign affairs committee voted with a full majority for the accession negotiations to be opened as soon as there is credible and sustainable progress in the implementation of judicial reform and in the fight against organised crime and corruption.
in conclusion, the report underlines the improved political climate in albania and the fact that some key reforms were consensually adopted in the parliament, notably measures on judicial reform and reorganisation of the judiciary.
but more should be done to improve the climate of inclusion and tolerance of all minorities.
we cooperate in tackling common challenges such as migration, sustainable development, climate change and terrorism.
ceta is a modern, new kind of agreement, promoting our values of free, fair and sustainable trade.
canada and the eu pledge to effectively implement major international agreements on labour and the environment.
to feed into this review, i intend to open a broad and inclusive debate on sustainable development provisions in our free trade agreements, involving all stakeholders, including of course this parliament.
the strategic partnership agreement accompanies and complements ceta, reinforcing our partnership, deepening contacts and coordination in areas like foreign security and defence policy, migration, counterterrorism, human rights, sustainable development and climate change – areas where we can work, and where we are already working together, to make life better for our citizens and promote a progressive international agenda rooted in our principles.
in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection we want to put forward three key points, and i would like to thank our colleagues in the committee on industry research and energy for taking them on board.
in 2016, the eu made progress on its key projects related to the protection of foreign nationals, the fight against terrorism, the digital single market, the energy union, the fund for strategic investments.
i would highlight the fact that this is the first dossier from the energy union strategy on which an agreement with the council has been reached, and securing this agreement in a record time is a significant political achievement towards establishing the energy union.
the key objectives of the decision are to increase transparency of the energy market, to guarantee that intergovernmental agreements in the field of gas and oil are in line with eu law, and to strengthen the eu’s resilience to gas and oil supply disruptions.
subsequently, a high degree of transparency will also contribute to closer cooperation between member states in the field of external energy relations and the achievement of long-term objectives relating to the functioning of the internal energy market.
improving resource efficiency and creating an economy closer to a circular economy will bring environmental benefits and reduce our dependence on imported raw materials through their reuse.
in addition, the circular economy model has the potential to create new jobs and generate sustainable growth by improving the competitiveness of european companies in the field of clean technologies and innovation.
it's high time that this waste was seen as a resource.
i believe that in our efforts to move towards a circular economy we need to set ambitious but realistic targets that take into account the existing waste management infrastructure as well as the differences in the level of development and use of technologies between member states.
ladies and gentlemen, improving waste management has a clear positive impact on the environment and the health of european citizens.
in the era of the circular economy, we must clearly realise that recycling and reusing more and more waste should become a mandatory and conscious element of our way of life and part of our economic culture.
it is hard to find anyone who would deny the need to recycle and reuse waste in a europe that is poor in natural resources and that needs to reduce its dependence on importing such resources.
investing in women's rights and empowerment is one of the most promising levers to fight poverty and to make a vital contribution to sustainable development for all of us.
this includes strengthening resilience against hybrid threats, including propaganda threats, contributing to border security, as well as actions related to cybersecurity, energy and maritime security.
i warmly welcome the intention of the esc to spread solidarity among young europeans (particularly young generations) but we should bear in mind that our prime goal is to create sustainable long—term employment opportunities for many unemployed young europeans, the eu’s lost generation.
madam president, the european environment agency estimates that about 15 thousand premature deaths in bulgaria in 2013 were due to concentrations of pollutants in the air.
in addition to the thousands of health-related deaths, the financial costs of air pollution in bulgaria are over 3 billion euros per year, which also includes the direct costs to the economy.
i support measures to reduce pollutant emissions from motor vehicles.
air pollution causes the premature death of over 400 000 europeans every year.
one of the main sources of greenhouse gases is cars.
the revenue from administrative fines should be used to support market surveillance, consumer compensation and environmental protection.
the problem of emissions is not just a problem for car owners, but for the health of all european citizens.
instead of outsourcing the problem to our immediate neighbourhood or conditioning aid, we should pursue sustainable cooperation in areas of common interest and support countries of origin and transit in achieving peace and prosperity by creating economic opportunities for their citizens, making migration a choice and not a necessity.
what is key in this process is that the governments who will benefit from this programme understand that their ownership in carrying out structural reforms is irreplaceable if they are to pursue smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
based on the above—mentioned, the main elements of the report are as follows: firstly, enhancing the sustainability of the eib’s investment policy.
secondly, monitoring the eib’s impact in the implementation of key public policy areas, and the report on the results and impact of eib operations inside the eu in 2015 reveals that the investments are in the following key areas: innovation and skills, small and medium—sized enterprises and mid-cap companies, infrastructure and environment.
it also contributes to enhancing the effectiveness and sustainability of the funded projects, alongside the zero-tolerance approach to fraud and corruption in its loan portfolio.
food waste is a global problem, with the fao estimating that approximately one third of all food produced for consumption in the world is lost or wasted every year.
in the eu alone, 88 million tonnes are wasted every year, equivalent to 173 kg of food waste per person.
the production and disposal of this waste results in 170 million tonnes of co2 emissions per year, i.e.
the fight against food waste depends on all actors in the value chain, but consumer behaviour has the greatest impact, as households generate the largest share of food waste (53%).
consistent measures are therefore needed at european and national level to raise consumer awareness of food quality and ways to prevent food waste.
the future cap can play an important role in combating food waste by including this dimension in the second pillar measures to promote the dissemination of good practices among member states.
the role that customs services play in the global trading environment, coping with the damage done by the illicit trade to the formal economy is indisputable.
second, in the age of internet of things, robotics, artificial intelligence, europe needs to have a regulatory environment unlocking the potential of data flow, and even more, making europe an incubator for innovation.
well-used technical measures are a prerequisite for attracting industrial investment in high-tech and innovative sectors with low environmental impact.
it has aligned the development policy of the eu and its member states with the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
therefore, i fully support the new consensus because it is an opportunity to make the eu even stronger and more prepared to tackle today’s global challenges and promote sustainable development.
the eu uses the concept of resilience as an answer to the growing complexity of the international security environment and the ongoing instability on its southern and eastern borders.
this is really needed, particularly in view of the ongoing conflict in eastern ukraine, russian trade sanctions on ukraine, the unfavourable global economic environment and the economic hardships which ukraine faces nowadays.
it faces a number of legal requirements, environmental standards and other challenges.
ladies and gentlemen, the paris agreement, as expected, makes the process of decarbonising the global economy irreversible by aiming to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by the end of this century.
in 2009, the eu adopted its target of reducing these emissions by 80-95% by 2050. the effort sharing regulation, or 'climate action under the paris agreement', under consideration today covers 60% of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions and covers sectors outside the emissions trading scheme, including transport, waste, construction and agriculture.
the common european target of a 40% reduction in carbon emissions by 2030 becomes binding on those sectors at national level.
i support setting a trajectory to achieve at least 80% emissions reductions by 2050 to ensure long-term predictability of policies and the necessary investments.
it is particularly important for agriculture and forests, which can also contribute to the overall reduction of emissions through the natural carbon sequestration mechanism.
this will help european manufacturing and the union can prove itself as a leader in the application of good practices and the handling of herbicides with minimal risk to the environment, human health, soil and the environment.
however, we must not forget that after a long period of political instability, macedonia needs accelerated reforms to help normalize the political and ethnic climate in the country.
with the charges filed last april, mainly against you, mr. prime minister, as well as your chief of staff, the minister of energy and members of your family, we note that this important file is dragging on extremely long.
the increased focus and drive for greater impact in the fight against climate change is reflected in the report.
the annual united nations general assembly recommendations report empowers our institution to present its opinion via the council to the un general assembly on issues ranging from peace and security, through climate change, to advocacy of human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
in its report, parliament recommends that the council, inter alia, should:continue to call for full respect for the sovereignty, internationally recognised borders and territorial integrity of eastern european and south caucasus countries, namely georgia, moldova and ukraine, in the light of the violations of international law in these areas; draw the attention of the un member states to the increase in tensions between some countries in the western balkans; urge their leaders to show restraint in their regional policies, with the eu and the un remaining fully involved in seeking lasting solutions to bilateral differences, including by acting as mediators where necessary; further encourage the un’s efforts to bring about peace in afghanistan and to overcome the fragile security environment in the country; strongly condemn the actions of the north korean leadership that threaten peace and security in the korean peninsula and beyond;reiterate its unequivocal condemnation of terrorism and its full support for actions aimed at defeating and eradicating terrorist organisations; and step up efforts to clamp down on the recruitment of terrorists;support un efforts to prevent non-state actors and terrorist groups from developing, manufacturing, acquiring or transferring weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems, and to insist on full compliance with the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, the chemical weapons convention and the biological weapons convention;call for a strengthening of the global response to migration and address the challenges and security concerns stemming from aspects of illegal migration, such as people-smuggling and human trafficking;reiterate its condemnation of any act of violence, harassment or persecution against human-rights defenders, and push for stronger engagement in promoting the rule of law;take concrete steps to ensure the efficient implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and its 17 sustainable development goals, adopted by the un general assembly in september 2015;ensure that the eu remains committed to the fight against climate change and call on all un member states to uphold the paris agreement;regain trust in multilateralism and try to convince all the un member states that this approach is the right one and that the un should remain an internationally recognised organisation in so many challenging places on our planet.
the report clearly underlines that the european union is one of the most committed defenders and promoters of human rights, fundamental freedoms and diversity, the fight against climate change, democracy and the rule of law.
there are areas in which both sides are interested in continuing to work: counter—terrorism, migration, energy, the economy and trade.
mr president, the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) as a new financial instrument should mobilise more than eur 40 billion of investment in the states of africa and the european neighbourhood.
in the context of the economic crisis, the stability of public finances has been put at the forefront of sustainable investment in health, but these objectives are not incompatible.
ensuring equal access to quality healthcare is key to sustainable health systems as it has the potential to reduce health inequalities between and within member states.
the european union must integrate its commitments stemming from the '2030 agenda for sustainable development' into all its actions and policies.
i believe the term "sustainability" is so used that it is meaningless.
experience shows that blindly pouring money into troubled areas of the world through development and sustainability tools just doesn't work.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the energy union (eu) 2020 strategy, which aims to improve the energy performance of the union by 2020 and to enhance the competitiveness of the union's energy sector.
many studies of the participants themselves have confirmed that an international environment is the best way to learn about different cultures, improve a multi-cultural understanding and knowledge of language, establish international contacts, develop new skills and grow as a person and as a professional.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is not only a challenge for us, but it is a boon for future generations.
so i think we need to be responsible and take concrete steps to reduce the effects of global warming.
climate change will affect many sectors, one of which is agriculture, which provides us all with food.
in this respect, agriculture and forestry can be the main recipients of greenhouse gases resulting from climate change.
i believe that the 23rd bonn conference on climate change should build on what was agreed in marrakesh and paris.
the expert group on social entrepreneurship issued some recommendations and we are taking forward a number of them such as increasing visibility, making funds more easily available or enforcing and reinforcing the legal environment.
in 2015, mobility and transport, energy and the environment were the three policy areas where the highest number of potential infringements were identified.
the environmental liability directive entered into force in 2004 and its transposition in the member states was completed in 2010. it has been amended three times since then.
the report again calls for a change in the scope and liability of damage to human health and the environment, including damage to air.
this will create an effective common framework for preventing and repairing environmental damage at a reasonable cost to society.
however, i do not think that the creation of a european environmental fund for the protection of the environment against industrial damage will help the 'polluter pays' principle enshrined in the directive to function better.
strengthening the training of environmental responsibility professionals and lawyers will also contribute to better protecting the rights of those affected by environmental damage.
environmental protection is an investment in the future, and that's probably understood by everyone, and it's the highest expression of patriotism.
the 'polluter pays' principle must be strongly promoted, because it is the only fair principle on which environmental protection can be based.
the objective of the review of the implementation of the environmental liability directive is ambitious and i welcome it.
while we support the initiative to strengthen the legal framework to better protect the environment, i would like to stress that this should not be done to strengthen or tighten existing rules or provisions, but rather to improve their implementation.
dear mrs president, commissioner, the cohesion policy principles for the period 2014-2020 stress that the approach to promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth must reflect the role of urban agglomerations and of urban, rural and coastal areas and take account of the links between rural and urban areas in the european union.
i believe it is time for the eu and the eastern partnership countries to achieve further progress in the four priority areas agreed in riga: strengthening institutions and good governance; mobility and people-to-people contact; economic development; and market opportunities – but also connectivity, energy, efficiency and climate change.
we are seeing concrete results from such a policy with specific targets in the field of energy efficiency, european emissions trading and renewable energy.
unfortunately, the ongoing conflicts and power struggles within somalia have destabilised the country’s political and security environment, leading to the rise of terrorism and large refugee movements both within the country and beyond its borders.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for the report because the european union and its member states and new zealand have a strong and good relationship, and also share many common goals on most global issues, such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and the fight against climate terrorism.
overall, both years contribute to developing sustainable cultural tourism.
they make us consider how to preserve our heritage and help us find ways to finance its preservation in a sustainable manner.
under the european year of cultural heritage, unesco was asked to develop four thematic itineraries between lesser—known world heritage sites in the european union in order to attract tourists in a sustainable way, but it was also asked to conceive them for chinese travellers especially and to promote them in china under the logo of the eu—china tourism year.
we are in a complex geopolitical environment and it is our responsibility to take the right measures and decisions to ensure a good future.
madam president, yesterday the european parliament showed its clear ambition in the field of the energy package, namely by voting for targets of 40% for energy efficiency and 35% for renewable energy sources.
and after we've heard the statement "america first" or "energy efficiency first" or "renewable energy first", isn't it time we heard the statement "better connectivity and smart grids first"?
let us not waste time, this must be done in full during this term.
it is therefore necessary to examine the immediate effects of the adoption of the list and its impact on the launch of the european fund for sustainable development, the european fund for strategic investments and, more broadly, on the financial regulation of the union.
as rapporteur for the beekeeping sector, i am very pleased that the apiary land planted with honeybees will now be able to be recognised as an ecological focus area.
it is neither a show of solidarity nor legally sustainable for the rules to be changed for one group or another.