we welcome the objectives set for job creation, sustainable development and support for small and mediumsized enterprises.
in sum: we are still a long way from addressing the causes of this crisis which are manifest in the corrosion of the political, security and governance environment.
but let me take the opportunity to underline again that we maintain direct support to the population – supporting health, nutrition, agriculture, energy and humanitarian assistance in the region.
it has been two years since the announcement of the creation of the energy union.
no substantive action has been taken on the serious problems facing the union in terms of energy supply, energy insecurity and energy isolation in which the union's states and regions find themselves.
the commission has not yet taken any action to deal with the energy poverty that is plaguing the people.
as long as there are people in the union who are denied the right to equal and cheap access to energy, a public development good, this will mean that the energy union has failed.
if we want to combat energy poverty, we must put an end to neoliberal austerity policies and, with a comprehensive plan, support in practice millions of our fellow citizens.
if we are serious about our ambition to make the union a leader in the development of renewable energy sources, then priority must be given to their entry into the networks and a comprehensive proposal must be put forward to promote them.
i should like to say that i welcome the statement made today in the commission's communication that the gas fields in the eastern mediterranean hold great promise for the supply of the union, but i must also stress that if the objective of promoting domestic energy sources is sincere, then we must also see the practical support for development efforts for the fields in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, unfortunately, instead of having as its primary objective the protection of the environment and the enhancement of people's quality of life, the emissions trading system is in fact aimed at providing free allowances to large industries as an incentive to remain in the union.
we will not therefore support the commercialisation of emissions which ultimately benefits the big multinationals in order to increase their profits, even though they are the main culprits of climate change.
we will not support a system which, as has been shown, does not contribute in any way to reducing emissions.
we certainly support the policies on climate change adopted in the paris agreement and we believe that the european union can make the greatest possible contribution to this.
at the same time, however, we consider it particularly important to have a balanced approach to the issue, so that the effort to reduce greenhouse gases and environmental burdens is accompanied by the protection of the secondary production sector, industry and small and mediumsized enterprises.
efforts need to be intensified in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and it is important to achieve tangible and sustainable results in these two areas.
a constructive and sustainable dialogue between the government and the opposition on eu-related reforms will be vital for the success of these endeavours.
(the president declared the request for an early vote to be rejected) )
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the european union has not yet been able to tackle the serious problems of energy supply, as many member states (and regions) of the union are isolated from the major energy networks.
it is very dangerous to promote policies which restrict the ability of states to form multi-dimensional energy agreements in the interests of the people.
instead, we must ensure that there is enhanced state control and national flexibility to ensure energy security for the people.
i express my respect, my esteem and my admiration for every woman, working woman, mother, woman, woman fighter, but at the same time i must take this step to express my admiration, my pride and my esteem for the woman of my country, the cypriot woman, who for 43 years has been a refugee, but who fights, who is at the same time a worker and fights, so that she can return home, so that she can stop being a trapped woman of cyprus, stop being a refugee woman, stop essentially this torment that exists through the turkish invasion and through the tragedy of 1974.
mr president, to protect the environment and ensure a quality of life, we must put an end to uncontrolled waste generation and aim for sustainable consumption.
we cannot consume everything, because in the circular economy, waste will be recycled.
we agree that binding targets should be set, that the responsibility of large producers should be extended, that prevention measures should be strengthened to ensure efficient use of resources, that recycling should be promoted and that the union should finance the development of the necessary waste management infrastructure.
and ensure the involvement of local communities, environmental and trade union organisations and other social actors in the legislative process.
women in rural areas need and deserve our full attention and full support as they play an extremely important role on their family farms and contribute to the development of entrepreneurship, sustainable development and the wider economy.
the commission and the member states were both well aware, as early as 2013, when the joint research centre report was made public, that there was a possibility of using systems to falsify emissions measurements.
despite the declarations on the need to protect the environment, it has been shown that the commission lacked the political will to act in accordance with the seriousness of the issue of high emissions and to give priority to the protection of threatened public health.
i would like to mention the need for a sustainability mechanism.
the sustainability mechanism is not part of the agreement before us.
any agreement between the union and the united kingdom must ensure that social rights, labour standards, public health and environmental standards are not undermined.
cohesion policy is a very important pillar of the eu, as it supports all regions and cities in the european union and supports job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development and improving the quality of life of citizens.
madam president, the revision of the 2005 european consensus on development was an absolute necessity, given that much has changed on the global development map with the adoption of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals in the face of the new challenges facing humanity.
our effort should be to strengthen the resilience of societies, that is to support and protect populations from conflict, forced displacement, poverty, discrimination, corruption, slavery, climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the group of the european united left has always argued that we must ensure that the energy labelling system is understandable to consumers, but that it also contains all the necessary information.
we therefore welcome the proposals contained in the final agreement to delete the misleading symbols and to move to a simpler single marking system from a to g. the proposal for the a to g system, together with the proposal for the re-classification of products on the scale based on stricter criteria, will in our view also make a decisive contribution to promoting innovation to increase energy efficiency.
consumers have a right to clearer indications of the energy efficiency of a product.
finally, i would like to stress that we are calling for immediate compensation to be paid to consumers who have been cheated by buying products with the wrong energy labelling.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers against the risks of energy-related accidents is a very good one.
logical, since trump's neoliberal policies put the interests of corporations above protecting the environment.
dramatic climate change is sending out a distress signal.
the european union, in cooperation with china and other states, must develop initiatives to give practical support to developing countries and develop a comprehensive action plan to combat climate change, end the wasteful use of natural resources and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the community, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the environment.
secondly, i would like to refer to the environment and say that the european union must have a very clear position, a unified position, against the new policy that mr trump wants to impose.
mr president, we should like to congratulate our dear colleague mr buzek on his very important report, which is a useful guide and a guide for the coming years on energy matters.
but i firmly believe that if we really want a proper, strong energy union and energy security, we must first of all rely on our own strengths.
cyprus has concluded tripartite agreements with israel and greece, and cyprus with egypt and greece, on energy matters, which the european union can use.
the commissioner, you should invest 10 billion in eu funds so that not only cyprus and the region but the whole european union can achieve energy security and self-sufficiency, and not just for the eastern mediterranean but for all the regions where it is possible for the european union to invest directly in its energy security.
but two challenges dominate our agenda: terrorism and energy security.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, the inaction shown so far has resulted in devastating hurricanes, increased energy poverty, further deforestation, irreversible pollution of the seas, and the continuing destruction of our planet.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the excessive use of fossil fuels.
the paris agreement has provided an important framework for tackling climate change.
however, unfortunately, at the 22nd climate conference in marrakesh, there was not the progress we expected for immediate action.
the 23rd bonn conference must not be another pointless repetition of declarations and crocodile tears about the state of the environment and the aggravation of environmental problems.
in the run-up to this conference, we call on the commission, irrespective of the trump administration's intention to withdraw the us, to work with china and other states, support developing countries and develop a comprehensive action plan to end the wasteful use of natural resources, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote renewable energy sources.
what if we don't find ways, or we don't want to find ways, to deal with monsanto, the company that is subjugating the global food chain with actions that negatively affect the climate?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
this report on the guaranteed minimum income aims to provide practical guidance on how to simultaneously intervene to mitigate the social impact of the economic crisis and promote active policies aimed at creating jobs and ensuring sustainable growth.
mr president, as long as wars, imperialist policies of intervention, poverty, the infringement of the right of peoples to sovereignty over their natural resources and the effects of climate change continue to be the responsibility of the union, more and more people will be forced to migrate.
increase pressure on the united states to comply with the climate change protocol and, secondly, consider referring the us to the committee on arbitration, as the us position amounts to a disguised subsidy for its domestic industry, which is not in line with wto rules.
thirdly, everything must be geared to development in the context of peace and sustainable development, and this cannot be achieved either by a spirit of confrontation or, of course, by strengthening the oligarchs in some of these states.
on the other hand, we are in favour of the european union countries being able to support certain sectors of their economy, as long as this is beneficial for sustainable development and does not create an unfair advantage.
finally, the addition of the fact that the countries exporting the products comply with the rules of the international labour organisation and with environmental standards is a positive one.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's third report on the state of the energy union, madam president, commissioner, makes a very strong statement that the policies being promoted are solving energy problems and are bringing about growth.
the figures in the report itself confirm that the energy bottlenecks and energy shortages that are plaguing the union are still present.
many member states and regions of the union are still isolated in terms of energy networks.
there are serious problems in the energy supply, and much more needs to be done to promote the objectives, which are not yet as ambitious as the european parliament wants, for renewable energy sources, to strengthen energy isolation and, of course, to combat climate change.
the only thing that has been achieved so far is to promote the concentration of power for energy policy in the hands of the commission, to the detriment of the sovereign rights of the people.
the commission's failure to present a comprehensive plan to combat energy poverty, which affects over 50 million people, is particularly worrying.
equally serious is the commission's failure to exploit domestic energy sources to enhance energy supply and security and to reduce the union's energy dependence.
mr president, i believe that the european energy union is the cornerstone for the european union to be able to respond to energy challenges and energy needs.
the european union cannot respond unless it realises that the energy union is indispensable, and there can be no energy union unless we support and finance energy projects which meet the basic objectives of creating conditions for energy self-sufficiency in the european union, for easy supply and for the european union itself to meet its energy needs.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the energy union is of strategic importance for the survival and competitiveness of the european union, and we have often criticised the commission.
one of these concerns the isolation of island member states and the need for a dispersed supply of clean energy.
unfortunately, in recent years europe has suffered greatly from natural disasters as a result of climate change.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
i think that the management and administration of the european strategic investment action plan should take initiatives to help my country, which has the capacity to develop energy infrastructure, has the capacity to really support small and mediumsized enterprises, which are in a difficult position, but much more, because there was a report by mr katainen, an important report in finland, that there were also social projects and social programmes, i think that a country like cyprus, which has a refugee population of 200,000, can with this project support refugees in cyprus for housing, reintegration, development and give a strong message and that this is not just a project for large projects and for small and mediumsized enterprises but for social infrastructure and social projects.
of course, as the european union we have challenges and risks, such as securing our external borders, energy security, terrorism and many others.