one of the more specific arguments for my support of the report was the mention of independent scientific studies which will examine, among other things, the impact of transport on the environment and the means by which air pollution could be reduced.
mr president, commissioner, it is now two years since the commission launched the energy union with great fanfare.
but in the legislative field, we're swamped with a thousand pages of the new winter energy package.
it seems that the european energy union is just about making stacks of paper.
and to the very discussion of documents related to the energy union.
in my view, documents such as the ets, the esf, lulucf should be discussed together with the current winter energy package, given that they are closely linked.
the council is failing to do so and the commission seems to be planning to discuss the governance of the energy union first, which i think needs to be discussed at a later stage.
what i am most interested in is that the citizens of the european union have money to pay for energy, and that is not being addressed at all, only that occasionally someone mentions that something like this exists and that it is simply a problem.
mr vice-president of the commission, i consider the winter energy package to be the most important piece of material that has been presented recently.
energy infrastructure has been built up in the eu for 150 years and is an essential part of everyone's life.
all need to be lit and heated at affordable market prices and therefore there is no way to jeopardise the operation of the energy system.
i am pleased that the commission is making such an effort towards the energy union.
the european union needs energy efficiency.
i believe that if we take the path of modern technology with an emphasis on safety, we can really improve the entire energy system.
but it is not possible to change this system only from the top down, without supporting the competitive environment, which is the biggest driver of new technologies.
mr president, i regard the winter package as a major step in setting up a new energy framework in europe.
as commissioner šefčovič said, this is the biggest reform of europe's energy sector since the introduction of centralised systems.
i consider that the proposals contained in it are the right response to the changing nature of the european energy sector and to the new requirements for market organisation.
first of all, the energy efficiency directive, which does not reflect much of what parliament has been pointing out in recent years.
i would like to see a much larger share of low-carbon sources in the energy mix, and all of this will be emphasised by our group in the debate on this package.
i thank vice-president šefčovič for presenting the second state of the energy union report to the european parliament on the same day as its publication.
first, it brings the good news that the modernisation of the eu economy and the transition to a low-carbon economy are becoming a reality.
the second is the role of renewable energy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency and climate change objectives, including the implementation of the energy union's climate and energy policy.
as commissioner šefčovič pointed out in his speech, the energy union is not just about energy and climate.
remember, its purpose is to accelerate the fundamental modernisation of the entire european economy to be low-carbon and energy and resource-efficient.
the electoral violence following the presidential elections of 27 august last year and climate of fear, repression and intimidation that followed and continues today, is an issue of great concern.
as a doctor, i am convinced that the home environment creates the best possible conditions for a child's healthy development, and no other environment can ever fully replace the family.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues, the co-authors of the resolution, for the excellent cooperation, all my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their support.
this debate and the proposed resolution therefore focus specifically on one type of low-risk pesticide, namely biological pesticides, which can provide a functional alternative to conventional plant protection products and can contribute to achieving sustainable and efficient agriculture.
and member states should incorporate the use of low-risk pesticides of biological origin into their national action plans for the protection of the environment and human health at a much higher intensity than they currently do.
the resolution also emphasises, of course, that consumer demand for safe food that is affordable and produced in a sustainable way must be met.
on the one hand, we have a series of great measures that will lead to an increase in the price of the allowance and to a reduction in co2 emissions, like the new lrf, an increase in the flow into the msr, the reduction of 800 million allowances, etc.
on the other hand, measures to protect the potential growth of industrial production in the eu or exemptions from the application of a correction factor for sectors most at risk of carbon leakage.
issues that are of concern to our citizens, such as security, economic growth and environmental quality.
these must be deepened not only in the areas of trade but also in the areas of security, climate protection and the environment.
it also contains commitments to protect high standards in the areas of the environment or working conditions, consumer protection and geographical indications, as has already been discussed by colleagues.
i am well aware that the interests of environmental protection and the efficiency of the allowance system are at odds with the sustainability of business in certain sectors of heavy industry.
– mr president, unlike the fears raised in the report, we should limit ourselves to the current realities of robotic systems and what is needed to help develop the regulatory environment to allow their increased used and manufacturing in europe.
in our view, this is the most sustainable and fairest way to ensure infrastructure financing, and this is clearly referable to taxation.
firstly, the german vehicle tax law should be based on environmental logic and avoid one-to-one compensation of all german-owned vehicles.
as i said earlier, we believe that one way to avoid discrimination is to apply charges and taxes based on different criteria, for instance on environmental performance and the infrastructure use of vehicles.
written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european cloud initiative (2016/2145(ini)) (a8-0006/2017).
in fact, i could name at least some of them: environmental targets, certainly.
i do not think anybody would deny today that we need to continue with lowering emissions from air transport.
the aviation sector undoubtedly requires heavy investment in a fast-evolving environment.
on the topic of multimodality, which rolls with the same topic, and air quality, multimodality is certainly a very positive environmental impact, notably regarding local air quality, so we designed the ten-t corridors fully multimodal.
it has been estimated that many of the indirect co2 emissions at airports originate from surface access transport.
developing important public transport systems is therefore key, both for environmental reasons and for fairer competition between airport modes, and we are pursuing this goal.
in this new competitive environment, public funding of regional airports may distort competition between regional airports, so allow me at this point to also mention state-aid rules, which are necessary to ensure a level playing field between regional airports.
my dream is that i wake up one day in the morning, i decide with the family or without to fly in the evening; that i will look at the internet, i will buy an integrated ticket which will take me from my village to prague, then to the airport, then from the airport to another airport, and then by train – integrated ticketing, integrated modes of transport; that i will get to the airport and i will be safe; that there will be pre-screening with no extra hassle, but still security will matter; i will fly on a plane, whether it is european or international, which will have low emissions, which will be quiet, a plane with a rested crew, etc.
mr. chairman, we are gathered here today to discuss the case, and i would like to tell a story, of human rights activist and environmental activist, francesca ramirez, who is trying to lead her organization in nicaragua, called the council for the protection of land, lakes and sovereignty, and with her colleagues, is trying to peacefully protest the mega-plan of the nicaraguan government to establish and create a canal between the atlantic and pacific oceans.
mr president, the european union has long been importing more than half of its energy from abroad.
very often from countries that consider energy resources as an instrument of their foreign policy, which is totally unacceptable.
europe must respond by taking a clear and strong stance in energy supply negotiations.
the commission must also ensure, by means of notification, that such contracts are fully in line with the rules of the internal energy market of the european union.
the new information exchange mechanism will therefore lead to increased cooperation, mutual trust, transparency and deeper solidarity across the energy union, which i consider to be a fundamental prerequisite for ensuring our energy security.
however, i would like to talk about the energy union from the point of view of security.
i am in favour of energy security and the internal market being closely linked.
i believe it is important to set the timetable for the energy union to become a real priority for the european union and its institutions.
it's a great motivation and mutual inspiration that we must not waste.
mr president, i voted for this report, and i support all the reports in parliament on the energy union.
it is very important to me that we have a real energy union, that our internal energy market is not so fragmented.
i think we must take full advantage of our great internal market, that is to say, we must achieve the lowest possible prices, we must achieve innovative energy management.
i think it is a waste of taxpayers' money and i think the european parliament is making a mistake in repeatedly supporting such programmes in the first place.
the new rules aim to strengthen protection against pollution by this highly toxic substance and the agreed changes will ensure that eu legislation is in line with the international rules laid down in the minamata convention.
cooperation at global level is key and essential: pollution by this substance knows no borders and, while the annual demand for mercury in the eu has fallen to around 400 tonnes since the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1102/2008, global consumption remains high at 3 600 tonnes per year.
i have always insisted that waste is just one part of the circle that we must tackle to achieve circular systems, but it is definitely a crucial one.
the individual resources in our waste are just too valuable to burn or to bury in a hole in the ground.
that is why waste reduction and modern waste management are essential parts of the material loops in a circular economy.
state—of—the—art waste management is key to the success of the circular economy in europe.
waste ceases to be a problem and becomes an opportunity when it is properly managed.
but europe still loses around 600 million tons of waste materials per year, which could otherwise be recycled or reused.
eu waste policy and legislation have been key drivers for resource efficiency, growth and job creation.
a swift adoption of the waste legislative proposals will further boost the markets for secondary raw materials and support a viable recycling sector and, what is more, the draft legislation we are discussing today has the potential to change for the better the whole life cycle of products in the wider economy.
in december, along with the council, we adopted together a joint declaration on the eu’s legislative priorities for 2017. the waste proposals are part of this selective list.
of course, the best waste is no waste.
so the priority that this house gives to waste prevention has my wholehearted support and i underscore the remarks just made by rapporteur bonafè.
i have taken note of the suggestions for a waste reduction target and for new targets for reuse, food waste and marine litter.
we have learned our lessons from the current waste legislation, which does not offer methodological clarity at all.
the waste package is also about improving the means to achieve higher recycling rates on the ground, while promoting a broader circular economy transition.
more use of economic instruments can provide the right incentives to move up the waste hierarchy.
in this context, parliament’s proposals to clarify and strengthen provisions resulting in better performance of waste management systems on the ground are most welcome.
last but not least, i note the very wide range of initiatives that parliament would like to see in the waste area in the near future.
i very clearly recall the antagonistic position that we – the commission and parliament – had at the beginning of this process of re-evaluating our waste proposals, and i am therefore very happy that we are in such a cooperative, forward—looking mood today.
draftsman of the committee on industry, research and energy.
how we respond to them will affect our long-term competitiveness, our quality of life and the quality of our environment.
the digital revolution, the technology revolution and transforming our energy to low carbon.
we also need a radical change in the way we manage waste and in the way we manage and use materials and raw materials.
a key part of this revolution will be to change the way we think about waste, which must become a resource.
it's not just economic factors that we have to consider, it's food waste or the sea being clogged with garbage.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
if we look at the proposals, and i am looking at them as the rapporteur on two of the proposals, in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), and in case one as a shadow, i must say that this is a good result.
i also appreciated the interaction with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), which has taken on board a number of the points made by the itre committee, including the annex on incentives, the one-stop shop, and the questions of illegal shipments etc.
now is not the time to spell out all the positive provisions – it is the time to invite the house to fully support and back something that has enormous industrial, environmental and social implications.
sub-targets for bio-waste and a progressive approach to microplastics are certainly in order, as are ecodesign and the use of waste as raw materials, which is the right way to ensure a true circular economy.
i personally support the recycling and landfill targets, but i cannot support a total ban on the energy use of waste, because i don't think landfilling is better or more environmentally friendly than converting waste into energy where it makes sense.
mr president, i supported the waste package, which aims to reduce emissions in the long term, increase waste management efficiency, emphasise producer responsibility, reduce red tape and create new jobs.
i therefore voted in favour of relaxing the mandatory recycling targets for packaging and municipal waste, which are even stricter in the proposed report than originally proposed by the commission.
i therefore supported the amendments which seek to clarify certain problematic terms such as municipal waste.
mr president, i would like to say first of all that i believe in the principle of economy, that is to say that each of us should behave in our own life in such a way as to be economical with resources, with the countryside, and of course with what we produce, what we leave behind, that is to say, waste management.
and i believe that our goal is to protect a good environment, not just for political proclamations.
the ecological damage was staggering, but no one seemed to know about it.
the fires were linked to many of the problems that are associated with palm oil production in general - corruption, blindness, child labor, environmental devastation, human rights violations and indigenous rights violations, the activities of multinational corporations, post-colonial development and migration, and i could go on.
so we're seeing another race to the bottom, where we're driven by short-term economic benefits over long-term interests in the sustainability of our life on earth.
as i've indicated, the problem is not just that we're putting harmful substances into our atmosphere, which of course is contributing to global warming, but that we're doing so in particular in the rainforests, which we rightly call the lungs of the planet.
i believe that the european union, as a strong supporter of the paris agreement and the un sustainable development goals, must act on this issue.
ensure that palm oil imported into the european union is grown and processed in sustainable ways.
the destruction of rainforests for palm oil is one of the greatest environmental problems on the planet today.
europeans are concerned about whether and how their consumer preferences are contributing to the destruction of the environment, biodiversity and local communities, in this case the rainforest ecosystem and agriculture and local communities in southwest asia.
i hope that the european commission and the member states will now do everything possible to ensure that from 2020 only sustainable palm oil is used in the european union, and that it is certified in a uniform way.
it is, in fact, the european parliament's contribution to environmental protection.
i just want to say that the palm oil issue is definitely on the agenda, and that's why the report went from three pages to 20 pages, and it's not just about deforestation, it's about child trafficking, it's about human labor, it's about social aspects, it's about biodiversity, it's about a whole bunch of other things.
this is what happens to women who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being who are being i know many small communities that are able to support these services, to create a better environment, with the support of european union funds or government programs.
mr president, commissioner, it has been over a year and a half since we learned that volkswagen used equipment to circumvent emissions testing.
over a year ago, when this house discussed the car emissions inquiry committee, our group called for an eu-level surveillance system which would contribute to better enforcement of eu legislation.
in the european parliament, we took these objectives seriously and came forward with a number of innovations to make the prospectus regulation more fitting to the current environment.
first, it's an extension of the definition of refugee to include people who have been forced to migrate because of poverty, climate change and natural disasters.
in addition to these two points, i find other problematic points in the report, such as the granting of special status to those who have been displaced by climate change.
perhaps the biggest shift we have seen is with the fusion for energy joint undertaking, which represents the european union in the iter project.
finally, a brief word on fusion for energy, whose financing is of course the focus of attention.
i therefore think it is important that we learn from each other, look for examples of good practice and not waste time looking for solutions that already exist.
i am in favour of trying to regulate this environment within the framework of fair trade, or putting pressure on european companies that import goods from these countries to actually meet these basic criteria.
however, for further and more effective action, it is necessary to divide and define the responsibilities between frontex and the internal security fund in order to avoid unnecessary duplication of activities and thus waste of resources.
food waste is growing at an alarming rate in the eu.
the production and disposal of this waste eliminates up to 170 million tons of co2.
there is constant pressure to reduce emissions from all directions and in all sectors.
we're talking about a new energy efficiency regulation, and we're not talking about a new energy efficiency law.
we promote organic, eco and similar brands to prevent the irreversible environmental impacts of consumption.
yet the average european throws away tens of kilograms of food a year, and this is not a sustainable situation.
the situation is that we, through our demand, devastate one part of the world, and then we throw things from the fabrics we've produced horribly into the trash in millions of tons and burn them for further emissions.
i would definitely make a non-binding target of reducing the production of this waste by 50% by 2050 a binding target.
i have joined this debate, although i think that concrete solutions to prevent more food waste must be adopted by the member states.
i think it is very important from the motion for a resolution that the eu should make recommendations, that it should look at how to prevent food waste and how to save food.
i think the goal of reducing food waste by 50 percent by 2030 as a non-binding goal is nice, but we have to look at how it helps those who don't have food.
this report is very good, it's descriptive, it shows how many millions of tons of food we throw away, how many millions of tons of resources we use to process that food waste, and so on.
i would say that i voted for this report because i consider it very important, but perhaps i am missing one crucial point that was not mentioned here, and that is that there is no methodology to measure food waste.
in conclusion, we remain attentive to developments, identifying actions which promote and encourage innovation in financial services and ensuring that europe remains an attractive and dynamic environment for financial services.
firstly, in relation to environmental sustainability.
road charging is one of the most prominent measures to implement the ‘user and polluter pays’ principles, which are guiding principles of the commission to make road transport clean and sustainable.
these vehicles are responsible for the lion’s share of pollutants and co2 emissions as well as congestion on our roads.
distance-based charging ensures that users pay for their actual use of infrastructure, with account being taken of the relative share in pollution emitted.
and i think that this is an absolute need: to be able to combine on the one hand an effort in terms of building that market, while also, of course, confronting all the practices which are – either from a social, environmental or any other point of view – to the detriment of the internal market.
you want to reduce co2, if you're worried about global warming, you can unplug.
the european union, in close coordination with the member states, will further convey a strong message to both the government and the opposition to play a constructive role and to engage in a dialogue to restore trust in support of an inclusive political environment.
given the enormous task that the country is facing in terms of humanitarian challenges and its key role in issues of common concerns – regional peace and security, migration, climate change – we must be ready to support them to foster democracy and prosperity and we think that one cannot exist without the other.
this said, i must repeat that the companies are not prevented from differentiated products within the eu legislation to better adapt them to the local taste and other conditions – including local market environment – such as competition pressures.
i think it is particularly important to underline that this package affects many policy areas – and, together with vice-president jyrki katainen, we have made sure that all aspects are well covered: first of all, transport, but also industry, climate change and energy, air pollution, urban policy, digital market policies, and employment and skills.
finally, the fourth winner of today’s package is climate, with air quality and innovation.
it represents 20% of our entire co2 emissions here in europe, and we have to remember that three times more people die from nitrous oxide and other forms of air pollution than from road accidents.
i am convinced that we can and will grow the transport industry while, at the same time, reducing our co2 emissions.
we had already delivered about 90% of the energy union legislation by the end of last year.
with today’s package and with the final mobility part, which we will present later this year and in early 2018, the commission will have delivered 100% of the energy union proposals.
we will continue to assume the leadership in the fight against climate change, and i am sure that the leaders of our three institutions will issue an appropriate statement in this regard.
let me point out three of the most important ones: first, fairer and more competitive mobility; second, cleaner and more sustainable mobility; and, third, connected mobility.
clean and sustainable mobility is the next topic.
in line with the european energy union, and to meet the commitments we made in paris, transport has to contribute by reducing its very high emissions of co2 and pollutants.
these vehicles are responsible for their share of co2 emissions and congestion on our roads, and this will also address problems relating to discrimination based on nationality, notably for passenger cars.
so let us try to be pragmatic and find solutions that work and that are enforceable, for the road haulage sector and its workers on the one hand, but also for all our citizens – with reduced congestion and lower pollution and, above all, better road safety – and, last but not least, for the eu economy, so that relevant, efficient and competitive transport services can operate throughout the single market.
there is no room for protectionism but there is also no room for misbehaviour or unfair treatment undermining the necessary social standards and environmental aspects.
and last but not least, to a more dignified driving environment, wherever they come from.
we know that the automation of transport and the use of digital processes are also beneficial for safety and the environment.
and there is no doubt: europe needs a strong, transparent, competitive, sustainable, free and pluralistic media sector.
journalists must therefore be able to work free from threats and in a safe environment, which also includes freedom from economic pressure.
and of course, the exchange of best practice between the european union member countries can improve the home environment.
we have a pluralistic media environment in the czech republic, we have private media, public media.
– madam president, i would like to say that i am not quite sure why we are discussing the situation in the czech media environment here today.
the areas concerned: water management, wastewater, climate change, i mean, we are even talking about issues which concern the circular economy.
and i could continue to do so in the fields of energy, environmental protection, security, or transportation.
in nepal, the european union, together with other international partners, is exploring sustainable solutions for the bhutanese refugees.
terrorists who have no demands, no fixed structure, whose only ideology is the utmost evil and waste, deliberately destroy the lives of defenseless victims, using means that we have until now considered to be relatively common consumer goods.
for the group gue/ngl energy efficiency is a topic that many people talk about, but it is rare to find someone who has read at least one of the hundreds of scientific papers published on the subject in recent years.
as there are many groups of electrical appliances, it is usually very difficult for the lay public to compare the products offered on the market in terms of energy efficiency.
the simplest option is probably to label products with a label that indicates to the customer the energy efficiency on a suitably chosen scale.
i am very pleased that we have agreed with the council and the commission on a new energy efficiency labelling and we have agreed that the current system requires a very significant change.
i think this is a very good step, because it shows that the public, maybe up to 80% of the public, of european citizens, look at the energy label when they buy an appliance.
i strongly believe that this will make it easier for consumers to orientate themselves towards energy savings and to distinguish products from one another.
this also reduces energy consumption and, with it, the amount that citizens pay for energy.
among other things, i also consider it essential that the eu reaffirms that energy efficiency is first, that it is crucial that we continue to stick to the slogan of efficiency first if we want to achieve the savings and targets of the clean energy for all europeans packages.
the question of its continuity with the energy efficiency directive now under discussion also remains a major issue.
this could bring new energy savings to households, which will certainly be appreciated not only by them, but also by us in the further negotiation of energy efficiency.
however, we are here today and on the agenda of the plenary session we have a second key document for the fight against climate and greenhouse gas emissions in the eu, which also involves sectors that were previously ignored in a very meaningless way, such as transport, buildings and, above all, agriculture.
today more than ever, in the light of the regressive and utterly senseless steps of the current us administration, it is important that we approve this regulation in the ambitious and strong version that has passed the envi committee, before the environment council itself.
we need to demonstrate our continued commitment to fighting climate change.
those who want to protect eu citizens want to protect the environment and care about it.
i supported this proposal, which establishes a framework for the indication of energy consumption on energy labels.
i believe that this change will make the existing labelling system more transparent and, in particular, improve awareness of the environmental impact of individual products.
i welcome the redesign of the energy label scale which is at the heart of this proposal.
in particular, it prevents participation in the work of international organisations and the interconnection of energy networks.
donald trump has decided to withdraw from the paris climate agreement.
unfortunately, despite all his tweets, climate change is unstoppable.
climate change, also caused by humans, may in the years ahead cause a wave of migration of such proportions that the current crisis will be a trifle in comparison.
the consequences of the wasteful use of resources and the neglect of the environment are shown daily by the situation with palm oil in indonesia.
let me explain why i supported the ep's opinion on the draft regulation on the binding annual reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the final vote.
i voted for the amendment so that the 2018 baseline for emissions reductions is not the ep's proposal.
if a child is born into an environment that often lacks even the basic conditions for life, let alone for learning, it will be much harder for him to do better in school, to continue his education, and perhaps to get a better-paying job.
it is good for consumers, it is good for growth and jobs, and it is good for the environment.
i believe this is a message supported by the majority in this house, but for this to work, we need to focus on removing hurdles and creating a business-friendly environment.
i would therefore urge that we should be able to push that limit even further, and secondly that we should thereby contribute to environmental considerations and our responsibility towards climate change, while promoting inland navigation.
we are currently working on how to improve the licencing environment and provide clarity on an sep licencing environment and fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory practices.
at a time when the transport sector is cutting down emissions and becoming much more digitalised and intermodal, at a time when the commission has put forward the mobility package, we definitely need an interoperable, free-flow-of-data sector which will provide for the uptake of new technologies, like, for example, electric vehicles.
european standards must be developed in a transparent environment and in an inclusive manner.
policy decisions concerning, for example, the level of protection of health, safety or the environment should continue to be left to the legislator.
in its communication 'next steps towards a sustainable european future', the commission underlined its continued commitment to eradicate hiv/aids and tuberculosis and to reduce hepatitis by 2030. we have therefore asked and continue to ask: what concrete steps does the commission intend to take to fulfil its commitment to the sustainable development goal 3 ensuring healthy lives and promoting good living conditions for all people of all ages in the aforementioned communication?
in addition, the first who global health strategy against viral hepatitis (2016-2021), adopted by the world health assembly in may 2016, emphasises the key role of universal health care and its goal, consistent with the sustainable development goals, to reduce by 90% by 2030 the number of new cases of viral hepatitis and ultimately to eradicate viral hepatitis as a public health problem.
it's about saving our wallets and saving the environment, which sometimes goes against the interests of the manufacturers.
the report identifies concrete measures that can contribute to the longer life of products, to a reduction in their environmental impact and to lower costs for users, thus to the development of a sustainable economic model based on balancing the needs of consumers and traders with positive environmental impacts.
we should focus on sustainability.
we need sustainable water management and we need to be inspired by the countries abroad, where the use of this basic resource is already very economical.
if the current budgetary policy is not working as it should, as the annual agreements between net payers and net beneficiaries show, it needs to be changed, to be stripped of all opaque rebates and discounts and to be replaced by a more neutral and sustainable income based on the gross national income of the member state.
during the estonian presidency, the entire winter energy package should also be passed by the european parliament, which also sets the rules for decades ahead and will have a huge impact on the economy of each member state in the future.
the vote will take place on thursday, 6 july 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by seb dance, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on eu action for sustainability (2017/2009(ini)) (a8—0239/2017), and– the council and commission statements on the high-level political forum on sustainable development (2017/2715(rsp)).
the previous agenda, the so-called millennium development goals, made no mention of their rights, whereas the motto of the sustainable development goals became 'leave no one behind'.
the ambition of the sustainable development goals is to end poverty in all its forms everywhere in the world.
mr president, reducing aviation emissions is one of the biggest challenges facing european environmental policy today.
this sector is the one that is growing the most in terms of emissions, from 1.5% in 1990 to 4.5% in 2015. the european union has not taken air transport into account in the development of an effective climate strategy and has also tried to liberalise the sector as much as possible.
if we don't act now, and we do it now, we risk having aviation emissions rise by 300% by 2050. then we will have a hard time delivering on the paris climate agreement, which the european union itself and all of us have put so much work and hope into.
aviation must be part of the system, aviation must be part of the environmental strategy of the european union.
an offsetting mechanism was not europe’s first option for aviation and we would have preferred a carbon-trading system.
however, we are working hard in icao to define robust eligibility criteria for emission units so only those that deliver real and additional reductions can be used under the carbon offsetting and reduction scheme for international aviation (corsia).
we have nevertheless to give corsia an opportunity to deliver, and some implementing rules which are still being finalised from several aspects such as monitoring, verification, transparency and eligibility of units or alternative fuels are key for ensuring environmental performance.
there was a very specific remark made by mr zoffoli related to non-co2 gases from aviation and their impact on climate.
climate impacts from aviation’s non-co2 gases are relevant.
nox emissions, water vapour or contrails may have different effects that could result in warming effects, but the magnitude depends also on the altitude or atmospheric conditions.
in any case, we remain committed to continue studying the effects of those emissions and assess measures to address them in the most effective manner.
the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 september 2017.
the next item is the report by norbert lins, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land use change and forestry into the 20130 climate and energy framework (com(2016)0479 – c8-0330/2016 – 2016/0230(cod)) (a8-0262/2017).
madam president, i agree with the previous speakers that forests play an important role in protecting the climate.
i would like to emphasize not only the environmental value, but also the economic value.
all that is key because from now on our citizens, my compatriots, should feel that there is more energy security and that contracts are not being concluded somewhere by someone where we do not know exactly what is in them and whether it will affect us or not.
we have been speaking for a couple of years now about energy union and a functioning energy market – all those elements that i have mentioned and that you have mentioned – but those of us who participated in the negotiations know how difficult it was and that it was quite often horse trading about the percentage, about real transparency and about solidarity.
to those who spoke quite often two years ago about the crucial importance of the energy union, i must say that in the council those were quite often the bottlenecks of these negotiations.
so let us remind ourselves that parliament has played an important and crucial role with good interaction with the commission, but the idea and the objectives of the energy union are not yet deeply rooted in the member states.
(applause)
madam president, the european union has experienced several energy supply crises in the past.
this is an efficient and effective way to achieve a significantly higher level of energy security.
solidarity without security is not sustainable, so yes, let us be solidarity-minded, but let us put the security of the european union first.
i did not vote for the regulation itself in the end, i abstained, because i believe that it is not necessary to adopt a regulation on the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land use change and forestry in the 2030 climate and energy policy framework.
for the good of the consumer, the producers and the environment.
i know, and i understand, that every other car in europe is powered with a diesel engine, but this does not mean that we in this room – you as a parliament and us as a commission – should close our eyes and say that nothing has changed since two years ago when the emissions scandal broke.
the scandal is not over yet because the industry, as many of you repeated, harmed the health of our citizens and our environment and then, afterwards – as many of you also mentioned – it compensated eu consumers less favourably than consumers elsewhere, forgetting that compensation should be for citizens and for consumers, not for ceos.
member states themselves can bring down the emissions of the existing diesel fleet.
they can properly enforce the existing law and, of course, the measures that are taken by the industry have to actually bring down emissions on the road and not only in laboratories.
this is harmful for your citizens, for your environment and for your future.
i would like to mention for instance co2 emissions that are of major importance for the protection of the climate, whereas nox emissions have direct effects on human health, and there is an inverse correlation between the two.
this shows again that we need to work hand in hand if we want to reduce emissions of air quality pollutants from road vehicles and thereby strengthen the health of european citizens and the environment.
furthermore, the energy performance of buildings directive requires member states to set minimum requirements for the thermal energy performance of buildings.
therefore, member states may equally have requirements on fire safety regarding, for example, the spread of the flame or the emissions of smoke.
over the last few years, the need for more energy-performing buildings has resulted in a large choice of new construction products being offered in the market for buildings, and their facades, which is equally important.
in the context of the digitalisation of european society, which we are actively promoting through a number of measures, it is particularly important to set up a non-discriminatory environment for vulnerable groups of the population from the outset.
we see great potential in establishing common requirements for making the built environment accessible.
in particular, chapters on investment, intellectual property rights, energy and smes.
it is this practical experience and familiarity with the work environment that can be very useful when applying for your first job.
madam president, we in the czech republic certainly also want to diversify energy sources, but this must be in line with the spirit and objectives on which our european union is built.
he's threatening our energy security.
it's also against the paris climate agreement in its consequences.
it is precisely the defence against cybercrime that is the area where cooperation at eu level is desired and welcomed by citizens and can better protect not only state institutions but also, and above all, the most vulnerable in the online environment, such as children and the elderly.
and besides that, we need to talk to the states about the environment, about greater security, and maybe even about the issue of innovation.
one of the big issues in asean is environmental protection and fighting piracy.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on the 2017 un climate change conference in bonn, germany (cop23) by adina-ioana vălean, peter liese, gilles pargneaux, julie girling, gerben-jan gerbrandy, estefanía torres martínez, marco affronte, mireille d’ornano and piernicola pedicini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o—000068/2017 – b8—0329/2017) (2017/2620(rsp)), and– the oral question to the commission on the 2017 un climate change conference in bonn, germany (cop23) by adina-ioana vălean, peter liese, gilles pargneaux, julie girling, gerben-jan gerbrandy, estefanía torres martínez, marco affronte and piernicola pedicini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o—000069/2017 – b8—0330/2017) (2017/2620(rsp)).
i appreciate your commitment to maintaining the european union’s role as a pathbreaker in the field of international climate action.
i would like to thank the honourable members for raising this important issue in parliament, thereby providing additional political momentum, and i am convinced that, with your support, the commission and the council under the leadership of the estonian presidency will be able to deliver substantial progress on the implementation of the paris agreement at the next climate conference in bonn in november.
in this regard, i would say that the european union, along with the other parties, is required to communicate by 2020 its mid-century development strategy for the long-term lowering of greenhouse gas emissions.
we will have to obtain the science on the 2°c and 1.5°c pathways, including through a report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) in the second half of 2018. the un framework convention on climate change (unfcc) facilitative dialogue at the end of 2018 is also essential, as it will show us how countries are implementing paris and what more is needed.
we can build on current results and not waste them.
the debate on this draft regulation shows once again whose commercial interests are more important and whose concern is first and foremost with human health and environmental protection.
current practice is to add industrial waste such as waste from the steel or leather industries to the fertiliser.
ladies and gentlemen, we are now facing an amendment to the fertilising products directive which emphasises the need for stricter protection of soil resources and the environment.
it also introduces biostimulants and allows the production of ce fertilisers from treated agricultural waste such as manure or compost, thereby reducing the dependence on phosphates imported into the eu from third countries.
better use of waste and recycling is not only a logical step for good management, but also an opportunity for innovation and new technological practices.
however, a balance between environmental protection, phosphorite dependency and fertiliser efficiency must also be found.
poverty and inequality are not only detrimental to social cohesion, but also to sustainable economic growth.
indeed, public employment services, education providers, social partners and youth organisations need to be involved so that we can reach out effectively to all young people and ensure that measures are sustainable and of high quality.
although the union has pledged to spend 20% of its finances on climate change action by 2020, we are consistently below that limit.
a similar scenario is seen for biodiversity protection, where the commission estimates an increase of only 0.1%.
mr president, the protection of the health of people and workers is a priority for all of us and, given the free movement of workers across the european union, it is of course appropriate that there should be a uniform regulation on working environment requirements.
i regard the violations of environmental rights as particularly serious examples, and not only in the new member states.
i do not want to draw a line between the old and the new member states, but it is important that the european union's rule really applies, no matter who falls, particularly in the environmental field.
citizens expect the european union to have rules that ensure a high standard of environmental quality.
the european commission should focus on only those changes in the future that are based on indisputable facts and whose impact on the quality of the environment is clear.
mr president, when we passed the environmental responsibility directive in 2004, we were basing ourselves on alarming numbers.
however, full implementation of the environmental liability directive was achieved only in 2010, after considerable ups and downs.
it is necessary to amend the definition, to extend the scope of objective liability for environmental damage and to apply the 'polluter pays' principle more rigorously.
mr president, i am of course of the same opinion that biodiversity, the protection of soil diversity and the protection of water against damage are very important values that we should protect for future generations.
i think that the damage compensation fund, an instrument for preventing and at the same time compensating for the damage that will be done to the environment, is also a very good idea.
in general, it must be said that it is precisely in the area of environmental protection that it is essential for the proper functioning of the european union to ensure that this directive is complied with and that its scope is extended so that citizens can rely on it and act with confidence.
– mr president, may i address some very important topics which were raised, especially speaking about the call to consider the possibility to extend the scope of the environmental liability directive (eld) and to impose liability for damage to human health, including damage to the air.
this is normal traditional or conventional damage dealt with through civil liability and enforced by courts, in contrast to environmental damage, which is dealt with by public authorities.
given the problems with air pollution, particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide, dieselgate.
i understand, of course, that several member states take different views, speaking about possibilities to introduce mandatory financial security and a european fund for environmental damage caused by industrial activities.
honourable members, while there may be some differences in views on the immediate way to further implement and develop the environmental liability directive to make it more effective and efficient, we agree in principle with most of the views and ideas in the report.
all the results are available on the commission’s environmental liability webpage.
the new rules will also improve the enforcement of consumer rights in the online environment.
so far, this has been done on a limited scale and only in an online environment.
the contribution of the africa-eu partnership strategy aims to strengthen, deepen and orient the partnership towards the prosperity and stability of both continents, in line with the commitments under the sustainable development goals, and in particular also taking into account the environmental factor.
africa is particularly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change and it is therefore crucial that the eu develops a strategic approach to building resilience to climate change and supports african countries, in particular least developed countries, in their efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to climate change.
i welcome the commission's efforts to involve the local and regional authorities of the member states, which play a key role in the protection of nature and biodiversity.
their environmental and economic benefits are incalculable and disappearing from our environment.
they have a very negative effect on the environment.
we need to put more energy and means into strategic communication and make the best use of the methods and tools which have proved efficient both in the eu and within our neighbourhood.
we then must consequently show the same energy, passion and determination to defend what europe is, to defend who we really are and to understand that collective prosperity is impossible without individual liberty.
i am also glad that the commissioner is presenting it under the energy union umbrella and that there is an integrated approach as concerns both sectors.
if we manage to change the mind-set, we will be in a better position to tackle what i see as a weakness in the european union, and that is the complete ecosystem: it is transport, it is energy, it is industry, it is consumption but it is also research, it is a question of where we really focus and we put the utmost effort in the financial means that we can deliver.
we are still well placed to be highly competitive in the future if we get the ecosystem right.
we now have the opportunity and, in my view, the duty to ensure the strongest possible rights for workers and for all citizens, sustainable transport and the best possible road safety.
of course, it is important to minimize negative environmental impacts.
maintaining a degree of technological neutrality is essential because the winner of the future battle, whether it be electric vehicles or hydrogen propulsion or other, currently unknown, propulsion units, will be decisively determined by a tough economy and competitive environment.
we know, of course, that the automotive sector employs 12 million europeans and is therefore the main driver of emissions of greenhouse gases in the european union.
so it's also the potential where emissions can be reduced.
it both reduces emissions and also phases out the combustion engines.
cutting co2 emissions by 30% in nine years is not going to be easy.
madam president, i welcome the review of the european union's environmental legislation as a necessary tool.
there are simply regions in the eu where, either because of poor implementation of european legislation or ignorance of it, very strong local friction is created between member states, especially when it comes to emissions.
look at the administrative decimation of the member states in the latest climate package.
i'd rather not talk about the winter energy package.
it will be interesting for eu countries to take advantage of new zealand's experience in protecting the environment and stabilising electricity supply, with more than 80% of production coming from renewable sources.
the destruction of nature makes it difficult to establish sustainable development in the local community and leads to consequences such as the ongoing plague epidemic with 127 dead already.
since deepening relations with new zealand, i personally pledge to support sustainable investment and growth, the creation of new jobs on both sides, as well as new business opportunities for private entities.
in addition to armed conflict, political oppression, and poor economic conditions, climate change is also a cause of migration.
the partnership has several priority areas: from economic cooperation to migration and the environment.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
there are very complex discussions currently taking place on the individual parts of the energy package.
the energy package is becoming more of a tool to support the conclusions of the paris agreement.
the energy package becomes the climate package.
it also extends into areas that often have no direct impact on energy.
i believe that the debate on the future of european energy is important and essential.
a well-designed energy strategy will determine the future competitiveness of the member states and the eu as a whole.
the second thing is that if we override the setting of mandatory parameters for efficiency, renewable resources and the like, we can do very serious damage to the economies of the member states.
at the same time, the over-ambitious effort to reduce co2 emissions will achieve the opposite, because some modernization projects may not be realized, because their economy simply will not work and the old technologies will continue.
thank you for your report on the state of the energy union.
the whole concept is currently on its feet and not satisfactorily interconnected with previous energy packages.
my group has already emphasised on several occasions, for example, the incompatibility of the ets with the energy efficiency directive, where there is a clear overlap, i.e.
the influence of energy efficiency on the ets.
i think the transition to a low-carbon society is becoming more and more a reality in the eu.
the itre committee voted yesterday on the very ambitious energy efficiency directive and the renewable energy directive, which are both crucial to the completion of the energy union.
without a significant increase in the pressure for ambition, we would not be able to deliver on commissioner sefcovic's words that in 2019 the energy union will no longer be just a political vision, but a reality.
in conclusion, i would like to commend the commission for being much more active lately in tackling energy poverty at both eu and member state level.
for us as social democrats, this is one of the key objectives of the energy union.
the eu's priority in the energy union must be to ensure a reliable supply of energy to all its citizens.
energy reliability and availability must be taken for granted.
a number of speakers highlighted the eu's role as a leader in the transition to renewable energy and stressed the importance of combating climate change.
however, i would like to ask the commission how it will react to the us government's declared intention to withdraw from the paris agreement on climate change.
it is certainly commendable that the eu is committing to reducing emissions, setting other, perhaps even unrealistic, targets, but unless the us joins as the biggest polluter, i strongly doubt the effectiveness of our efforts.
the pillar highlights the right to income support, which ensures that people can live in dignity, to services that enable people to participate in the labour market and in society, and to a work environment that is adapted to people’s needs.
accessibility to everyday services and goods, as well as to the built environment, can significantly improve the quality of life not only of persons with disabilities but also of older citizens, for example, and contribute to their full participation in society.
certainly, we understand that they have to develop much more energy to meet their performance targets and do not always achieve the required results, so we should appreciate their efforts and ensure they have decent working conditions.
in my view, to increase the effectiveness of our foreign representations, our foreign missions, our interests that we have right now in our immediate environment, that is extremely essential.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 december 2017. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on fisheries on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets, and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1006/2008 (11382/2/2017 – c8—0358/2017 – 2015/0289(cod)) (rapporteur: linnéa engström) (a8-0374/2017).
but on the other hand, we must say that we are part of the whole system that we are preparing for and which, i firmly believe, will be completed in the near future, so that we do not limit emissions only to those closest to us, but also try to limit them where, unfortunately, we are constantly prevented from doing so, for example, by some international organizations, as is the case in the icao, but also in the imo in the context of shipping emissions.
we in the gue/ngl certainly agree with the inclusion of aviation in the ets and the capture of its global emissions and consider it absolutely necessary.
on the other hand, let us consider how we treat the european sector in the emissions trading system and how much time we give these multinational corporations and companies to adapt.
mr president, the sustainable development goals are enshrined in the european union's founding treaties and also incorporated in key sectoral policy projects and initiatives.
as mentioned above, the united nations adopted the 2030 agenda for sustainable development in september 2015 in the form of these 17 goals.
significant progress has been made on objective 7 'affordable and clean energy', objective 12 'responsible consumption and production', objective 15 'rural living', objective 11 'sustainable cities, towns and cities and good health and well-being'.
there's been less progress on the goals that my preface talked about, and i won't repeat that, but there's not enough information to evaluate four areas: clean water, which really surprises me, also climate action, underwater life and peace, justice and strong institutions.
transport is the source of more than 25% of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union.
road transport is responsible for more than 70% of transport greenhouse gas emissions.
action is therefore needed in this area in particular, but at the same time efforts to reduce emissions in all transport sectors should be stepped up.
air pollution is responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths in the european union every year, which i consider to be reprehensible and unacceptable.
road transport accounts for 70% of total transport emissions.
so if we're going to focus on one area of climate change, we're going in the right direction.
while motorway charges should reflect emissions, there are other ways to do this.
in late november, a well-known vietnamese blogger and influencer was sentenced to seven years in prison for spreading information about the 2016 ecological disaster.
the report responds well to the ambiguity of the current international environment and the european union needs to be more active in this area.