i will not waste your time by repeating the clichés that have been going around for so long: on the need to use all our policies, including development aid and a long-term approach.
the president, there are several other subjects on which he wishes to speak in response to the interventions of his colleagues: the environment, taxation, interinstitutional dynamics, the environment and climate, the maritime sector, the road map to bratislava, the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, and social aspects.
(applause) i would like to thank the maltese presidency can count on the commission's support so that, together, we can ensure that the celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, prepared by the - no less important - malta summit in february, do not only celebrate our past progress but also and above all mark a new beginning, a surge of energy, foresight and vision to undertake a re-foundation of europe which will prove that, as has always been the case in its history, it emerges strengthened from the trials and challenges.
the maltese presidency supports our plan to complete the internal market by building up the digital and energy internal markets in particular.
the previous slovak presidency of the council still spoke of 'sustainable migration' and before that the dutch spoke of 'current migration' which they wanted to tackle with a comprehensive approach.
– mr president, this agenda allows us to look at the future at least 12 months ahead and assess what the political priorities are and how our political environment will evolve during this year.
the new european fund for sustainable development will have the potential to mobilise up to eur 44 billion to create jobs, improve social conditions and promote sustainable development where it is most needed.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
as regards the maltese presidency, yes, i confirm that we will have, among the energy we will be devoting in the coming months, the work on the fourth 'anti-money laundering' directive and also the second 'tax evasion' directive, high on the respective council agenda.
and i would like to see us develop this successful model further together with the member states and the social partners, rather than building frantically on a new pillar, the sustainability of which i already have serious doubts.
we need reform processes for sustainable social systems in the member states and for dynamic labour markets.
that means we have a competitive economy, where quality jobs are created, but where jobs are also created with sustainable and adequate social protection and that throughout the life of people.
the eu is always ready to engage with the new us administration to follow up on these commitments, as well as on the many other achievements we have managed to build together in recent years, and which are today key fundamental elements of our european union policy from climate change to the iran deal, from the middle east peace process to our support for the un system and a free and fair trade system.
we need to step up our role in the un and also when it comes to climate change.
europe is well on track to meet its environmental targets.
we are the climate champions of the world in co2, in renewables, in savings.
but we are also world champions in energy costs for small businesses and households, especially in backward regions.
this is because the same principle applies to green energy.
if we want green energy in cars and buildings, we cannot simultaneously prevent this structural change by imposing austerity on renewable energy.
we in parliament - the left, the liberals - want 40% less energy consumption.
we must therefore also remain ambitious on the subject of energy saving, but please do not go overboard, otherwise we will be driving european industry out of business.
we are in favour of legislation on energy that breathes, of moderate energy savings in line with incentives and markets.
first of all, i would like to thank you for the good proposals on the clean energy package.
we will now work at full speed to complete the right course for a european energy union during this parliamentary term.
the commission has put forward good and, above all, binding proposals on the energy efficiency directive and on renewable energy sources.
for energy efficiency, the commission is unfortunately proposing only a 'continuation' although the 2020 targets have already been reached and there is still a lot of potential.
we social democrats are therefore calling for a 40% energy efficiency target at eu level and binding national targets.
and the same applies to renewable energy sources: courage to be more ambitious.
the first is: i think it's smart that we move away from this renewable-fuel patchwork of subsidies and instead have the task of organising this through tenders, approaching it in a market economy.
i would like to thank the commission for putting the issue of energy and climate change in the energy union on the agenda again in today's communication.
we need to continue to prioritize climate action, even after the election of donald trump, where times are getting a little bit more difficult.
but we cannot achieve our climate objectives by driving industry out of europe.
we have a difficult debate in strasbourg in two weeks' time, in the run-up to the vote on emissions trading, and i think we need a good compromise solution.
that is why i attach such importance to the proposal you made in november on energy efficiency.
we must continue to include aviation in emissions trading because the issues discussed at international level are not yet sufficiently clear and ambitious.
– mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members not only for their encouraging words and strong support, but also for the call to be even more ambitious in our efforts to transform the european energy system and to do it through robust governance.
i would like to assure you that, whenever it is possible to improve our proposals, we are ready to work very closely with the members of the european parliament and with the council to make sure that the proposal we put on the table last november really leads to the most profound transformation of the energy systems in europe since they were built in today’s centralised and fossil-fuel-centred way.
and i will, of course, say a few words about climate action and the paris agreement.
i know that this readiness to provide leadership is very much welcomed by our partners across the world, be it on energy transition or climate action, be it in the area of development aid, where we want to use our clean technology to provide access to electricity to the peoples in africa and in asia, or be it on free and fair trade.
you have been highlighting the importance of putting citizens as consumers at the centre of our efforts and using this energy transition to fight energy poverty and air pollution, and i absolutely agree with you.
we cannot lose 450 000 people every year because of high pollution.
we cannot have, on our tv screens, pictures of our cities which remind us of beijing or delhi, and we cannot accept the fact that 50 million europeans have to choose between paying their energy bills or buying food for their families.
therefore, we are introducing what i believe will lead to a more common approach in fighting energy poverty.
the european observatory on energy poverty will be up and running by the end of this year.
we believe that energy efficiency is a very important part of the answer, and that new electricity market design, with strong rules on the procedure leading to disconnection, should be another very important lever for improving the situation of our citizens.
i know that europe’s mayors – who very often are the first addressees of citizens’ complaints about air pollution or energy poverty or vulnerable sections of society – are ready to work with us very actively in the global covenant of mayors for climate & energy.
i understand all those honourable members who have reminded us of the importance of energy security.
we are going to explore the possibilities here and look at how we can merge these two unions and use the potential of capital markets to invest in european energy infrastructure.
i am looking forward very much to working on our proposals which are on the table and on the proposals on low-carbon mobility which we are going to present in the course of this year.
ecuador wanted to join the eu out of economic and political constraints, but also to continue its own path of sustainable development of the "buen vivis".
erasmus+ is distinguished by its pursuit of sustainable education and training objectives.
let me start by stating that biological pesticides are fundamental innovations that may provide our farmers with sustainable options to protect their crops and preserve biodiversity.
member states, in particular, have the responsibility of managing the sustainable use of pesticides and promoting greater use of low-risk pesticides and of all tools enabling the move towards greener agriculture.
as for the commission, we share the view that it is important to take action to increase availability of low-risk products and to expand the toolbox for farmers with more sustainable options to protect their crops.
over the years, more than eur 100 million has been invested in this area, and the commission will continue to commit funding to the pursuit of sustainable solutions under the future research programme.
it will facilitate the identification of low-risk substances while fully safeguarding the high level of protection of health and the environment set in the eu regulation.
to conclude, i am confident that the range of actions taken by the commission will help to secure more sustainable alternatives for european farmers.
we cannot exclude adverse effects on man and the environment, especially if plant protection products are not used properly.
we have a problem: we want food to be safe, affordable and sustainable, while using as little land as possible.
the dose is what makes the poison, and responsible use is what determines food safety and sustainability.
new - and this is why it's important that we have the consensus - are the global sustainability goals that need to be incorporated.
we must try to respond to the new demands: refugees, climate change and also the eu's general values, which distinguish us from other donors such as china or the usa.
we must see how the african trust fund and the european fund for sustainable development can be integrated and how we can organise the measures to involve the private sector more and also attract investment.
the 2005 consensus had to be revised because of many problems that have arisen in the meantime: refugees and climate change.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 february 2017.
the next item is the debate on the report by ian duncan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the cost-effectiveness of emission reduction measures and investment in carbon-efficient technologies (a8-0003/2017).
if the ets works properly, it is a powerful tool to trigger investment in climate-friendly technologies.
we're helping the climate and jobs.
if we do that, then maybe we should save that for the case that other nations, like the united states, are going to drop out of climate action altogether.
we have just heard it again, it is the same members who are complaining here about deindustrialisation and then using environmental regulations to move industry to other regions.
it is always the same members who complain about unemployment in europe and then contribute to the disappearance of jobs by making energy costs too high.
it is often the same colleagues who are loudly advocating for a reduction in co2 emissions in the eu and then quietly increasing global co2 emissions.
because with the globalisation of the economy on the one hand, we cannot ignore the globalisation of the climate problem on the other.
if we force the production of such products abroad through a costly emissions trading system, we are not only harming european industry and european jobs, but we are also harming the global climate.
i am saying yes to climate action, but i am also saying yes to preserving our jobs in the european union.
because it is not good for the climate to move our jobs abroad.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies.
every year, i visit these plants and i've seen the investment that's been made in energy efficiency, process optimization and carbon reduction.
it is important for farmers, for the consumer and obviously for the environment.
last but not least, renewable energy is important – just thinking about the debate you have just had.
since the start of this year all new support for large renewable plants has had to be given through a tender.
in germany tenders have brought down the price of supporting solar energy by 25% in the last year and a half.
if the costs of funding renewable energy would make an energy intensive sector like the steel sector uncompetitive, well, state-aid rules do not stop a member state compensating that part of the cost, because the competition rules are here to support european competitiveness, not to undermine it.
there are many areas where the eu can do good, for example in the common internal market, and also in environmental matters.
the key to a sustainable economic policy, in my view, lies in the economic and community approach of helmut kohl and françois mitterand, which was then embodied in the stability and growth pact.
this includes the protection of external borders and, of course, - as mentioned in the berès/böge report - the sustainable stabilisation of the eurozone in the interests of the european union as a whole.
the commitments to greece must be fulfilled and greece needs a sustainable course of reform.
it is about the economy, about social progress, about environmental standards, about the protection of minorities and about working responsibly as an actor in the regional partnership.
in this context we encourage all authorities to increase the focus on sustainable reforms and to overcome divisive rhetoric rooted in the past.
we do not want the richest, the biggest, the most unfair to decide where to go in an increasingly interconnected environment, but we want the rule of law to prevail in a world that is growing together.
i would therefore like to make it clear once again what is and is not at issue: it is growth and employment and not lower environmental, social or consumer protection standards.
but since ceta is more than a trade agreement, and will also have a significant impact on how we produce in the future, also in terms of climate change and the necessary changes in our economic system, including industry 4.0, i can only say: it is not acceptable.
it is an agreement for putting investor rights over people’s interests, for liberalisation without end, and for harming the climate, the environment and also social standards.
and agreements need to set good standards, and – especially in these times – we need to work together for climate change, as this is our last chance to uphold international law because it is being challenged.
of course, the corporations also want the money we spend in the communities for the public services - for schools, waste management, electricity supply.
for example, to improve the enforceability of sustainability, to fight corruption, to the global sustainability goals.
i have in the past been faced with great concerns from works councils and trade unions in the decision we have taken on the reform of the emissions trading system.
i am clear: climate protection and the protection of industrial jobs must go hand in hand - they are not opposed - and that is how i acted in the votes today.
lastly, our response, as many speakers have underlined, needs to be comprehensive and sustainable.
this is why a key aspect of our work towards an effective and sustainable security union is better application and implementation of existing eu instruments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european parliament has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
it would be much more efficient and much better for the environment.
with your help, with your ideas and with your energy, the presidency has already been able to deliver on important tasks set by the european council.
we all need to take a responsible approach to these files in order to ensure that a safe environment is provided for migrant children, as well as an improved tracking system to ensure effective protection.
the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 2 march 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs soledad cabezón ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the eu options for improving access to medicines (2016/2057 (ini)) (a8-0040/2017).
the introduction of generic medicines is an important means of stimulating competition, reducing prices and ensuring a sustainable and high-performing health system.
i do not really understand how the brits will continue to try to convince trading partners on the sustainability issue, because we can only convince our partners if we have the weight of the whole european union with its 500 million people.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
this approach was widely supported by the environment committee.
the compromise reached after the second trilogue unfortunately lacks the ambitious positions contained in the draft report after the vote in the committee on the environment.
it's about the mercury in energy-saving lamps.
but we must not forget that the combustion of coal produces a lot of mercury, and the commission has calculated: the use of energy-saving lamps - if they are still necessary, if you do not have more recent technologies - is still useful because it can save coal-fired power stations.
and that's not just in general, but in particular, with mercury, good for the environment.
peter liese spoke to the energy-saving lamps: i thought it was very bad at the time that the light bulb was banned and energy-saving lamps came because they contain mercury.
we have two cases in germany where a child, because such an energy-saving lamp has broken down, has been corroded by the fumes and has been marked by this for life.
it's also said to be found everywhere in the environment, in fish, in seafood.
it's so minimal that it helps people, but it doesn't do much damage to the environment.
it is clear that companies must ensure that their use does not pose a risk to humans or the environment.
furthermore, reducing the use of mercury is beneficial for the environment and the requirement for member states to draw up national plans on the phasing-down of dental amalgam should make a significant contribution towards this objective.
but let me say one last thing, which is all too often forgotten in this house and especially in the council: environmental policy is social policy; it affects economic development and the quality of life of all people.
the task of environmental policy must be to give environmental concerns a weighty voice.
for the future debates and decisions on environmental policy issues and questions, i appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, to turn your back on the old slogans of 'environmental protection is anti-technological, endangers jobs and is an obstacle to economic development' and to understand environmental policy as sustainability policy.
that is why it is right to speak today of the longterm sustainability of investments, of the transparency we need, of the competitiveness you have mentioned.
i would like to make it clear once again on behalf of the epp group - and i thank mr zwiefka for his contribution - that we all agree that sustainable business policies and long-term orientation of business decisions have produced strong companies in europe, and we have an interest in ensuring that this remains the case.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms gomes, and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for having dedicated their time and energy to this topic.
big data and artificial intelligence holds huge potential for our strong industrial base and for the public sector and can help solve societal challenges, whether it is better health care, combating climate change and protecting the environment, more efficient transport, agricultural productivity – and the list can go on.
we 're doing something for the environment .
we have, when waste is landfilled, the generation of methane.
methane is a worse climate gas than co2.
and in my country, the biggest single contribution to climate change in recent years has come from reducing landfilling.
so this is at least as important as other things in climate change.
it is about transporting small amounts of hazardous waste, for example: if a painter takes paint from the construction site, he should not be treated like a large waste company.
we have more ambitious targets, we have better mechanisms and proposals to reduce the waste mountain and to recycle as much of the raw materials as possible.
we are talking, indeed, about the sustainable development goals, and, sadly, we are talking about an old white man in the white house who, in one of his first actions in power, has threatened all of these things.
as presidency, our overarching theme is reunion – a reunion which fosters a climate in which the union can once again regain the trust and confidence in the european project and secure its strong and viable existence.
we believe in a europe that fights for a healthy environment, yet europe will only be viable if it is socially responsible, equitable and just, and if it is significantly moulded from the bottom up, not from the top down.
i believe the central feature is to secure our freedom on our continent in a difficult international environment.
mr president, i guess we all agree that rapidly changing geopolitical circumstances and serious security threats characterise the international environment.
we should therefore reserve the right to do what is necessary in our immediate environment.
first, we must address the challenges facing the arctic by responding to climate change and protecting the arctic environment.
our second priority must therefore be to support its sustainable development, so that it is a place where people can continue to live, study and work.
our joint communication highlights that safeguarding the arctic’s fragile environment and the sustainable development of the region can and must go hand in hand.
it is not sustainable to only consider the economic development without due regard to the rich biodiversity and the consequences of climate change in the region, and it is not possible to aim to protect the fragile environment without considering the needs of the local communities and the potential for developing a vibrant economy in a sustainable way.
challenges like climate change are on a scale too big for any one state tackle alone, so international cooperation is, obviously, key.
we as the european union have a lot to offer in the various policy areas because we are good at it and have a lot of experience in research and other areas - including environmental protection - from other areas as well.
these include the deeply polarised political climate, the politicisation of the public administration, undue external influence on the judiciary, corruption and the freedom of the media.
first, to ensure delivery on cfp reform objectives, providing the scientific data necessary for sustainable fisheries and aquaculture, while protecting the marine ecosystem and reducing discards and, at the same time, achieving economic, social, unemployment benefits and food security.
they can certainly do it on their own with their research vessels, but not to the extent that we can do it if we include the three sectors - that is, the professional fisheries, which bring in quota catches, but also non-quota catches, the recreational fisheries, which also ultimately have to report their data, and in aquaculture in particular, it should be the marine sector, that is, the aquaculture that takes place in coastal areas, that we have the data to also get feedback on what it actually does to the ecosystem.
we expect the commission to present a convincing and sustainable approach to the esc.
what are the commission's intentions regarding the short, medium and long-term financial sustainability of the esc?
this problem has been raised by colleagues here on several occasions: deforestation is actually releasing an extra 1.5 gigatons of carbon dioxide.
that's about a quarter of the annual emissions from fossil fuels here in the eu.
palm oil production is extremely damaging to biodiversity, and huge areas of rainforest have been and are being destroyed for it.
but we must accept the fact that there is no such thing as truly ecologically sustainable and socially produced palm oil, and there never will be.
but we 've all agreed: a lot of deforestation is due to palm oil, a lot of emissions are due to palm oil, and then there are still some that come with sustainability certificates like the roundtable on palm oil.
there is no sustainable certification at the moment that really lives up to its name.
we need to set criteria that are truly sustainable and not participate in this label scam.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr jens gieseke and mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, on behalf of the committee of inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector, on the inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector (2016/2215 (ini)) (a8-0049/2017).
it is also clear that the current regulations on emissions control offer too much room for interpretation.
that is why i demand: firstly, we urgently need to implement the emissions tests in real road operation.
the commission has already proposed a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
neither the commission nor the member states have considered the shutdown devices as a possible cause of the discrepancies between the nox emissions measured in the laboratory and those measured on the road.
here, engine protection has been very broadly constructed, also at the expense of environmental protection and air quality.
we have now tabled an amendment in the epp plenary, where we are setting up an environmental fund so that those who are really affected, namely cyclists and pedestrians, will be compensated in the end.
on the other hand, organizations such as the german environmental aid were the voice of the desert, and i thank them.
so no compensation for cars that pollute the air and manufacturers who ignore the environment and the health of citizens.
in the work of the committee of inquiry we have identified serious failings both on the part of the european commission and on the part of the member states which have favoured the emissions scandal.
if we start with the european commission, we have to say that the discrepancies between emissions in test operation and emissions in normal road operation have been known for more than ten years.
diesel was also used to reduce co2 emissions, with less attention paid to nox.
one year emissions committee what are the most important points and recommendations for me?
thirdly, emissions measurements must be more accurately traceable, because results from the laboratory which cannot be traced and reached on the street do not help the consumer, do not help the environment and do not help the manufacturer.
that is why we have real driving emissions in the future and have also created a solution at european level.
this was also a topic in the climate protection package we discussed in parliament in 2007/2008.
my third point is also very important to me: we have euro 5 and euro 6 standards, we have strict values, strict co2 requirements and we want our cars to be low-emission and low-pollution.
the car manufacturers who make customers happy all over the world and to whom we owe a good part of germany's prosperity appear to be the environmental aggressors, the serious criminals, who the commission and its thousand authorities must catch with ever more sophisticated methods of investigation if the continent is not to end in disaster.
but the environmental advisory committee is the final straw.
the fact that this legislation now allows and requires vehicles to be tested after they have been put into service is an important step in the right direction to detect fraudulent intentions in emissions measurements.
and sure, to overcome the dogma of austerity, to invest in a sustainable economy, to carry out intelligent reforms and to get real on debt relief, that might not be popular in every single member state.
the inclusion of those in need of protection and better prospects in the countries of origin go hand in hand, including a common coherent and sustainable foreign policy with all its different facets.
lastly, the eu external action service has set up a taskforce on strategic communication to promote eu policies and a healthy media environment in the eastern partnership region.
it is the social climate that we must change.
for the sustainability of the privacy shield it is essential that these elements are part of it.
they seem to prefer quick, sham solutions for businesses to sustainable, fundamental rights-friendly approaches that also offer more legal protection for the companies concerned.
and these elections took place, and they took place in an environment that you could say, "the work paid off".
the commission is very much aware of the worrying situation caused by the sub-standard and illegal waste management in campania over the years and has already acted consequently and comprehensively, for over more than 10 years now.
however, strict enforcement of relevant legislation by the italian competent authorities is paramount to eradicate an environmental and health problem which is instigated by organised crime, and maybe some meps know more than others and accept and admit more than others what is actually going on.
i was also a bit surprised that, in this letter that we signed, we talk about waste, we talk about health, but very little about the root of the problem, the criminal activity for which the state and the citizens are paying and against which we all have to act.
and let us not underestimate the scale of this illegal activity because the waste problem in the campania region has been characterised by illegality, inefficiency, irresponsibility and indecision.
as i said before, i can assure you that my services and all the commission will keep monitoring the situation in campania to verify that the italian authorities are taking the necessary measures to ensure that the waste is managed without endangering human health and the environment in accordance with eu waste legislation.
i need to stress again, however, that the solution to the acute health problems derived from the illegal treatment of waste in campania is dependent on all relevant actors working effectively together.
it is paramount that the italian competent authorities take a firm hold of the situation and clamp down on organised crime in order to dissociate it from waste management.
the reality, however, is that the commission shares the hungarian government’s objective to have affordable energy for households.
the best way to achieve this is to establish competitive energy markets and promote energy efficiency and innovation, and to work together at european level to ensure security of supply.
that is at the core of the energy union proposals.
i am pleased to report that as a result of this, we have been able to reach a common agreement on such complex issues as media regulation, the new hungarian constitution, the reform of the judicial system and the development of nuclear energy.
in addition, the maximum sustainable yield that is sought must be achievable.
it is argued that new construction is necessary to reach distant stocks because stocks within 100 nautical miles are depleted or pollution is present.
when i was in réunion, i was told that the pollution was caused by pesticides from banana plantations, for example.
the eu institutions and member states should first lead by example and make their own public procurement sustainable and fair.
agricultural policy is more than the production of products - that is important and right, but agricultural policy or the european agricultural model is much more than that - from climate protection to water protection to biodiversity.
the vote will take place on wednesday 17 may 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs biljana borzan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the initiative on resource efficiency: reducing food waste, improving food safety (2016/2223 (ini)) (a8-0175/2017).
today's topic, "food waste", is an urgent issue that concerns us all.
53% of food waste comes from households.
however, to illustrate: each european throws away almost two kilos of food a week, and the same amount of waste is generated up the food chain.
the european union has declared war on this waste.
the aim is to halve food waste by 2030. the commission has not yet developed the basic instruments for this, commissioner.
i am very pleased that the report makes it very clear that we need a very specific waste hierarchy for food waste, with the ultimate goal of avoiding and reducing it first.
the committee on agriculture has made a strong call for investment in the energy use of food waste and for additional sources of income for farmers.
i am glad that the environment committee has not given in to these urges.
energy recovery can be an option, but only if it is done under clearly defined conditions.
not only have they developed large biogas plants, which then invest in residual materials like manure or fodder and bring them in, but they're growing corn, and 10 percent of our land is now going into pure energy use, and, i think, energy use has to be at the end of this waste hierarchy.
first, people have to get the food, and then we can give it to the animals and the environment, and finally, energy.
food waste in the eu is reaching increasingly absurd proportions, currently around 88 million tonnes per year.
it is right to try to do something about food waste.
food is a precious commodity, and when food is wasted, it is incredibly expensive, because we are not just wasting a particular food, but everything that has been put into the cultivation, the production of that food: soil, water and of course energy, fertilisers, spraying, etc.
but it is not only expensive, it is also harmful to the environment.
because it's bad for the climate if we produce a lot more than we ultimately consume, because we throw away a lot of that production.
the problem we have when we deal with the question of 'how do we avoid food waste?'
and until such a definition is in place, it may be very, very difficult to determine how much of this food waste is the individual's share of the food chain.
we must be careful not to confuse the loss of agricultural production with waste.
there is always waste there too, and that too is more to be attributed to loss than to waste.
with this report we call on the member states to make the public sector sustainable.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
i very much appreciate the commission's emphasis in its paper on the new sustainable development goals as a benchmark.
sustainable development defines the framework for economic development everywhere.
it is also right that the european court of justice today in its judgment on the singapore agreement said that sustainable development, workers' rights and environmental standards are an essential part of trade policy and that their observance must also be taken as a benchmark for further steps and this must have consequences for future trade agreements.
we also need to lead the fight against climate change.
we should not wait for others to follow the path or maybe also do something, but we need to be more ambitious in targeting the reduction of co2 emissions, because we have no time to waste.
we also need to get serious about fighting tax avoidance and tax evasion – because i think those are key issues when it comes to social justice – by making sure that big companies which greatly profit from globalisation pay their due share and making sure that we can also afford investment, for example in education, good social services and sustainable jobs.
the commission is also aware of the problems of the environment.
not for short-term camps anymore, but really for long-term integration, for aid, for addressing the causes of flight, for climate action and so on and so forth.
and at the same time, the uk must be aware that any free trade agreement will have to ensure a level playing field, and encompass safeguards against unfair competitive advantages through, inter alia, tax, social, environmental and regulatory measures and practices.
the second agreement concerns portugal and spain on the temporary storage of nuclear waste in almaraz and, finally, the third agreement with slovenia and croatia provides for operational and field solutions to better manage border controls and the application of the schengen rules between these two countries.
it was we europeans who put climate protection on the world agenda.
let us together develop it into a solidarity-based, social eu, in which the question of sustainable economic development must of course also be at the forefront, but not against the people, but with them.
the first is to further accelerate the process of economic globalisation by means of a new generation of international treaties, and the second is to make social, ecological and democratic adjustments.
the question is this: while you are clearly trying to promote bilateral trade agreements which do not provide for binding social and environmental standards, you are not consistent with the ecological, social and democratic adjustments which the process of globalisation requires.
we do not need a buy european act, we need binding social and environmental standards.
this is the only way to overcome the current skills shortage and to create a sustainable and competitive european road transport sector.
keyword environment: we have a regulation for an infrastructure in europe for alternative energies, which only needs to be implemented now.
i said we need alternative energy infrastructure.
taxes, levies, tolls, pollution controls - all of these have their justification, especially from an environmental point of view.
the link between tolls and co2 emissions is complicated.
but do you think that the toll for foreigners - which is now being introduced in germany and which the commission has still today confirmed, although it is anti-social and anti-ecological and anti-european - is wonderfully designed, unbureaucratically easy to handle, or would you have preferred it otherwise?
at the same time, i agree that korea needs to do more on trade and sustainable development, particularly labour rights.
in march, we also had a committee on trade and sustainable development (inta), so commission raised it there again.
once we know what the new government thinks, we can reflect together on the most appropriate way to ensure better implementation of the trade and sustainable development chapter of this agreement.
in particular, the sustainability chapter is being implemented very slowly in korea.
trade policy must also serve to anchor fundamental sustainability goals and basic worker rights globally.
we are in favour of free trade, but free trade needs a reliable framework and is not an end in itself, but must contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
we therefore expect the korean government to finally take a firm stand on the implementation of the sustainability chapter.
the commission's approach here is also a question of political credibility, because sustainability objectives cannot only be promoted, but they must also be enforced.
attempts by the commission to negotiate - which i acknowledge - on the basis of the sustainability chapter of the agreement have been ineffective.
that's why it was right and necessary that we acted together after the rana plaza disaster and launched the sustainability compact, accompanied by the accord, to ensure that there are improvements in working conditions in bangladesh.
we have made it very clear in the resolution on the textile industry at the last plenary session that we also expect that we can create more binding rules here for compliance with sustainability criteria or due diligence, in line with the oecd guidelines, and that our preference system is also more oriented towards the issue of respect for workers' rights.
i welcome the sustainable development pact and i am very much looking forward to the outcome of tomorrow's meeting.
this legislative initiative could contribute to better working conditions in the producing countries, including bangladesh, in addition to the sustainability pact.
if we make the support policy more efficient in practice, we will enable local authorities and project promoters to co-finance and ultimately achieve sustainable successes!
however, i can announce that we will be carrying out a thorough bureaucratic and cost check on all proposals concerning the financial burden of new environmental noise or congestion regulations.
the environmentally friendly railway is made so expensive and the climate-damaging road so cheap.
i would also like to thank our colleagues, mr neuser and mr wenta, who have really put a lot of work and energy into this work.
when we evaluate the implementation of the action plan, we can see that progress has been especially positive in some thematic areas such as food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture, or in humanitarian programmes for a protracted crisis.
firstly, this is part of a global effort to improve the impact of our policies on sustainable development and resilience.
with the joint communication we want to put at the core of our policies the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the 2015 paris agreement, the sendai framework for disaster risk reduction and the commitments to action made at the world humanitarian summit last year.
such a streamlined assessment would integrate, in a more systematic and dynamic way, information from our diplomatic network and from humanitarian and development actors, as well as the specialised knowledge about the external environment held by the eu’s internal policies, dgs and agencies.
the declaration can provide the basis for diplomatic efforts, foreign policy and development cooperation to work together in the future to implement development cooperation objectives in order to make them sustainable.
the platform will also provide a better link between different policy areas such as humanitarian aid, disaster preparedness, climate change and development, and a better alignment between domestic and foreign policies.
it deals not only with security, but also with economic and environmental resilience and, furthermore, the concept identifies state, societal and community resilience, which is closely linked to humanitarian and development aid.
we need a coherent policy framework for the resilience of our external action, in particular through the promotion of sustainable development, human rights, political dialogue and conflict resolution.
it is therefore necessary to use it to strengthen the responsible action of our partner countries and to accompany and support them on the path of long-term and sustainable development.
just as with other gsp+ beneficiaries, the eu intends to hold sri lanka to its commitment to improve sustainable development, human rights and good governance.
so i am confident that this measure, gsp+ for sri lanka, can help the country to develop its economy on sound foundations that respect human rights and labour rights, and that are environmentally sustainable.
an integrated strategy for the digitalisation of industry must take into account the competitiveness of profit such as material intensity or more efficient use of resources as well as the sustainability that can contribute to digitalisation, for example in the field of energy transformation or the circular economy and good working conditions.
they are creating jobs, they are helping to tackle climate change, they are investing in research, they are building infrastructure, they are doing cross-border projects.
the structural funds are a driver of jobs and sustainable growth.
that is why we do not just need any investment but sensible investments to fight inequality, to create jobs, to revolutionise our energy systems and to create a sustainable economy.
and to do that, of course, it makes the most sense to really promote sustainable modern economic development and thus to give support above all to small and mediumsized enterprises.
we need infrastructure, we need to fight climate change, we need research and innovation, we need good ideas.
secondly, i would again ask the commission to finally remove the macroeconomic conditions which are still attached to the funds and which are in fact preventing their sustainability.
the energy label is a european success story.
more than 80% of citizens are familiar with the energy label and use it when buying a new appliance.
the energy label reform was therefore necessary to end the great confusion in the market with misleading energy labels.
the new energy label, with a uniform scale from a to g for all product groups, will once again enable consumers to save electricity and money.
a meaningful energy label can save up to eur 500 in energy costs per household each year, and 19 terawatt hours of electricity can be saved annually across europe thanks to the energy label.
on this website, consumers can find out more, compare appliances or find out what the symbols on the energy label actually mean.
i think that - as my colleague mr tamburrano has just said - is very, very unfortunate in the light of the emissions scandals.
– mr president, let me start by welcoming the excellent agreement reached on the energy labelling regulation between parliament, the council and the commission at the last trilogue in march.
we have on our table today a key file from the consumer perspective: the energy label is known and used by over 85% of consumers in europe when they consider buying new household goods.
energy labelling brings concrete monetary and energy savings.
as a result of different measures taken in the context of the european union’s ecodesign and energy labelling policy, european households can save up to eur 500 per year on their energy bills.
whilst these measures bring benefits at the level of individual households, they also do so at macroeconomic level by reducing europe’s energy bill through energy savings and by contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
furthermore, our industries are encouraged to develop increasingly energy efficient products strengthening europe’s competitiveness and our leading role in driving product energy performance standards at global level.
focusing on energy efficiency first – whether it is for buildings, products or in industry – is more important than ever in order to ensure security of supply and a successful energy transition while promoting investment, growth and jobs.
the revision of the framework legislation on energy efficiency for products was one of the first legislative initiatives of the juncker commission in the field of energy, adopted already in july 2015. the agreement reached on the energy labelling regulation represents a good balance between the interests of different parties.
there will be a product registration database that will facilitate the work of national market surveillance authorities and will make it easier for consumers to compare the energy performance of many household appliances.
with regard to the issue of consumer refunds in the case of non-compliant labels, and in response to the oral question tabled by ms werner, ms rivasi, mr tamburrano and mr sylikiotis, the commission fully supports the principle of providing for financial compensation to consumers in the event of wrongly labelled energy-related products.
in this context, possible provisions on consumer compensation should the products they bought not comply with european union harmonisation legislation, including energy labelling, are under close examination.
now, let me conclude by saying that, in the commission’s view, today’s agreement will strengthen and future-proof the iconic european energy label.
with the newly agreed rules for labelling, this framework will continue to deliver towards our 2030 energy efficiency objectives.
we all want to save energy, and the way to do that is by informing the public, so that consumers can make their own judgement and then decide to buy the device that consumes less energy, i think is a very smart and correct way.
the commission has rightly pointed out that this would be a problem under the current system of european energy labelling.
no consumer has anything like a label which gives an a to all machines, whether energy-intensive or energy-saving, and which can only be distinguished by the number of plus signs behind it.
some member states face challenges: i am referring to ireland, spain and italy, and we are addressing this with the flexibility in the alde, epp and ecr amendments, which are better and more appropriate than what the committee on the environment has decided.
today we are responding to the american president: we are committed to the paris agreement on climate change and we are implementing it in a balanced way.
we are doing this in particular with the three proposals: co2 reductions in our industry, now the proposal today for the reduction of greenhouse gases in transport, buildings, waste and agriculture and in the third proposal the co2 absorption capacity of our forests, the so-called lulucf sector.
in order to realise the potential of co2 reduction - which was 9% of total emissions of all sectors in 2012, for example - the sector also needs to be valued and incentivised to produce carbon credits and thus produce more intake than output.
climate action is a moral and political obligation today more than ever.
parliament may not have presented a perfect compromise with the proposal for a climate regulation by 2030, but we have very clear guidelines for more consistent co2 reductions, including a focus on a long-term strategy by 2050, and also options for recognising the efforts of countries and also for incorporating flexibility so that countries are not overburdened.
because by the time of the bonn climate conference, by the time of cop23, the eu should have its package ready: the emissions trading, this climate regulation and also lulucf.
this is how we can show the world that we're not just talking about climate change globally, but we're taking it seriously at home.
our climate diplomacy must succeed in creating a global consensus, even if trump is against it.
i am encouraged by the members’ engagement with the issues, and i appreciate the commitment to maintain the european union’s role as a path-breaker in the area of international climate action.
i am convinced that the council, under the leadership of the incoming estonian presidency, will be able to move forward swiftly before the next climate conference in bonn in november.
out of the 140 nationally determined contributions, the european union has the most ambitious one, namely a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 40%.
this is one president, but there will come other presidents and other administrations, and we also have to understand that we have seen a movement in the usa in response to mr trump’s withdrawal: a massive one from states, big cities and major businesses who have announced that they will do their part to help fulfil the original us commitment of reducing emissions by between 26% and 28% in 2025 as against 2005. so, we are implementing the paris agreement.
so, my message today is one of optimism because i have just come from bologna and, with the environment ministers of canada, france, germany, italy, japan and the united kingdom, the european commissioners are reaffirming their strong commitment to the swift and effective implementation of the paris agreement, which remains the global instrument for activity in tackling climate change and adapting to its effects.
the euro is one of our greatest achievements, but it needs a creative environment.
we need more investment, we need better coordination of our economic policies, we need responsible institutions, and we need a process that will drive forward the modernisation of our economies, the modernisation of our societies - economic modernisation, ecological modernisation and social modernisation.
i think that this will allow for more biodiversity, especially if we limit it to pre-harvest treatment and do not use it in kindergartens or public places.
you completely ignore the threats to biodiversity, and you say, business as usual, it can go on.
the intimidation and arbitrary arrests of opponents and activists, and politically motivated prosecutions, do not contribute to such an environment.
first, leaders will show their strong and continued support to the paris agreement on climate change.
the gravest of these is the battle against climate change.
we are all vulnerable to climate impact.
climate change is not a hoax.
this is what the everyday struggle against climate change looks like.
the leader of the world’s largest historical contributor to climate change has announced that he wants to leave the paris agreement.
in the coming three years before the us can legally withdraw, we all have a duty to work together to convince president trump of the importance of climate action.
the agreement gives countries flexibility to determine their own contributions towards fighting climate change in the context of collective science-based goals.
i commend italy for its climate leadership in the g7 and expect no less of germany in the g20.
apart from the moral case for climate action, the economic case is undeniable.
a recent oecd report highlights in no uncertain terms that any delay in climate action is bad for the economy.
real world climate action is accelerating and exceeding national targets.
who could have predicted only a few years ago that renewable energy would increasingly be the cheapest option?
climate action simply makes sense at every level.
this realisation is resulting in new countries emerging as climate champions, including india and china.
we are also seeing countries coming together to find new ways to push the boundaries of climate ambition.
that coalition, which bridges traditional economic and geo-political divides is now working towards the full implementation of the paris agreement and the creation of the political space needed for deeper and faster climate action.
in september next year my country will take over leadership of the climate vulnerable forum – a group of 48 developing countries that has pledged to go 100% renewable by 2050. if we can do that, so can you!
at the sub-national level we are seeing an unstoppable groundswell of collective commitment to climate action.
as the un secretary-general recently said, the climate action train has truly left the station.
a cost effective path to achieving the 1.5°c limit requires peaking global emissions before 2020 and a rapid acceleration of climate action before 2020 so as to set the world towards net-zero emissions in the second half of this century.
the international energy agency (iea) has confirmed this rapid decarbonisation is possible but requires unprecedented levels of leadership.
they are true climate warriors, as are many of you who grace this chamber and others around the world.
domestically, europe is demonstrating that economic growth and reducing emissions of greenhouse gases are both possible and mutually reinforcing.
the eu and its member states together provide about 40% of all global public climate finance.
the eu is also the biggest provider of technical climate assistance to developing countries.
going forwards, what must climate leadership from europe look like?
first, europe must urgently communicate a 2050 strategy to reduce emissions, consistent with the 1.5°c limit and net-zero emissions in the second half of this century.
the 2018 dialogue, together with the climate action summit which california plans to host next september and the un secretary-general’s climate summit of world leaders in 2019 are the three biggest political moments we have before the end of this decade to push the cause of increased climate ambition.
europe must be at the centre of these, working with countries and others around the world to ensure further and faster climate action by all.
fourth, the european union must continue to push ambitious climate action in all relevant fora and sectors, including on shipping emissions and ensuring environmental integrity in reducing aviation emissions.
the eu must also lead the world in mainstreaming climate action to deliver the sustainable development goals including in relation to oceans.
all pacific islands are also extremely proud that fiji will represent us when it leads the world at cop 23, the first island climate summit.
finally, ongoing leadership of the eu on climate finance, in particular for the most vulnerable countries, will be critical.
sadly, the us decision to stop green climate fund (gcf) funding presents a problem and one we hope the eu and its allies can address.
as our young climate warriors eloquently put it ‘we are not drowning, we are fighting’.
– mr president, the recent announcement by president donald trump to withdraw the united states from the paris agreement on climate is a highly regrettable step.
the announcement is in line with previous actions on environmental regulation by the new us administration, such as the rolling-back of existing climate programmes and the weakening of international climate commitments.
let me stress here that the eu is committed to leading with ambitious climate policies and through our committed support for the poor and the vulnerable.
with its flexible architecture it constitutes an international framework which encourages countries to widen the array of options contributing to the goals of preventing climate change, which threatens global development, peace and stability.
our goal should be to minimise the consequences of the us decision on the effectiveness and credibility of the climate framework.
the council is continuing its work on the completion of the internal legislative and regulatory framework of the union, which is necessary to deliver our paris target of reducing economy—wide emissions by at least 40% by 2030. on 19 june the environmental council will hold an exchange of views on the effort-sharing and the land-use change and forestry emissions proposals.
the eu position following president trump’s decision to withdraw the us from the cop 21 climate agreement will also be discussed during the foreign affairs council meeting on 19 june.
climate action does not need more distractions.
as the european union, we will step up our climate diplomacy and collaboration with other partners.
for example, climate action was a key topic of the eu-china summit on 2 june.
in september, miguel cañete will co-host a major gathering with his chinese and canadian counterparts to implement the paris agreement and accelerate the clean energy transition.
in paris, the world committed to helping vulnerable countries adapt to the consequences of climate change.
the decision of the us to go back on its pledge to the green climate fund leaves a major void.
when we ratified the paris agreement in record time, this house showed its commitment to climate action.
the major american universities - harvard, stanford, georgetown, yale - and even 82 percent of the american people express that they are clear that climate change is a reality.
but then, if you think about it for a few seconds, even with all the more determination that comes out of the responsibility for the next generation and also the knowledge that the issue of climate change will also trigger a modernization push for our economy.
even american companies like exxon are advocating for not giving up on climate goals because they recognize that there is a huge opportunity in that, too, if we engage with the economy to drive that change.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not thank you very much, madam president, for being here today, for showing us again what it really means, what the effects of climate change mean for people in the most affected areas.
i can assure you that we greens will continue to push for more action on climate change, and i am very pleased that many of the colleagues who have spoken today have also said that they support the paris agreement and that they think that trump's decision is wrong.
we are the third largest emitter of co2 emissions, but we as the european union also have the power and the technology to do something about climate change.
we can really show leadership here, we can take the lead, and we can help make this climate go forward.
this is not in line with europe's leadership role, and it is not in line with the fight against climate change.
we have a real chance to create good new jobs with real future prospects, with the fight, with energy efficiency and with renewable energy.
the planet is not waiting for us, it can do without us but we can't do without it and we can't do without a suitable climate.
i have to say, madam president, i had the great honour of being part of the european parliament delegation to the marrakesh climate conference.
climate change is an opportunity for the economy, and trump will cause the most pain to the united states because he is missing the future.
i have to say, madam president, climate action is not only a political but also a moral duty - as the president of the marshall islands' speech showed.
it would be totally irresponsible for entire countries to disappear from the scene if we cannot limit global warming.
protecting the climate will be the biggest transformation of the economy since the first industrial revolution.
the move away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy also creates entirely new opportunities.
commissioner, i regretted that the eu-china summit did not produce a declaration on climate action and mutual cooperation, because global climate action needs leadership.
first: i believe that mr. trump wants to build a wall against migration to mexico and the number of migrants will increase by preventing the fight against climate change.
for us, it's also an existential question that if we want to secure the living conditions in africa, we have to stop climate change, because otherwise there will be migration.
and that's why climate change is an important issue in this sense as well.
president trump has decided to withdraw the united states from the paris climate agreement.
he's using it to maneuver his country into the climate-policy aisle.
as a global economic power, the eu has a duty more than ever to take a leading role in international climate action.
we need a european climate diplomacy strategy to do this.
i have been campaigning for a year for an own-initiative report on climate diplomacy to be tabled in the committee on foreign affairs.
for example, i call for our parliamentary committees and delegations to systematically ask their interlocutors about the implementation of the un sustainable development goals (sdgs) and their national climate targets at cop21 when travelling around the world.
the european external action service in brussels must be financially and personally empowered to strengthen europe as a key player in climate diplomacy.
it is of course important and right that the european parliament should commit itself to the paris agreement and to the reduction of greenhouse gases, especially at a time when the united states is clearly moving away from that agreement.
the commission is not the maltese government and thus the current eu presidency are unfortunately associated with criminal energy in the public mind.
we have a lack of investment, particularly in transport, particularly in broadband networks and in renewable energy.
there has to be sustainable growth.
of course, it is an ongoing task to make ourselves internationally competitive in the context of a sustainable economy.
i am thinking of industrial machinery and equipment, ict, utilities, infrastructure or energy.
on the other hand, there are many problems for european investors in china: the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the community's policy on the environment.
do they adhere to environmental standards?
we need to safeguard a fair, predictable, trusted business environment in the online economy.
as rapporteur for the opinion, constance le grip welcomes the result of the report voted in the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the fact that the contribution from the opinion on the committee on legal affairs was very much valued within the text, which will be voted in plenary tomorrow.
we obviously did not realize the energy with which some people are looking for loopholes.
and we are in favour of implementing it first and starting from mid-2018 - that is, tomorrow - looking more closely at what may not be sustainable in the long term, including the loopholes.
when we look at europe, it is particularly important to me that competition, environmental, social and trade policies should be better integrated.
the holistic approach also means, in my view, that we must combine competitiveness and sustainability, as this parliament has already decided.
the only time you ever go in that direction is when you talk about climate, but only about investment climate.
they fail to see what the basis for a successful european industrial policy of the future is, namely the combination of competitiveness and sustainability, the combination of digitalisation and eco-efficiency strategies.
the truth is, we are deciding on a lot of the burdens that european industry has to bear, if you look at the whole range of industry, climate change, energy policy and so on.
you know that i think the issue of emissions trading is being exaggerated.
first, investment in domestic energy-intensive industries is less than depreciation - that is, creeping deindustrialization.
we are the champions of the climate and the environment.
the losers are the climate and jobs.
that is why our climate policy must finally take account of the competitiveness of the economy.
we are learning again that our demands can only be met in a sustainable way if the systems of power are changed.
is there a debt sustainability analysis for moldova?
who did this debt sustainability analysis?
what has been the outcome of this debt sustainability analysis?
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
on the other hand, if we look at the second factor – the institutional environment – this suggests that the institutional environment might be expanded to other types of assets, perhaps more risky and less liquid types of assets and covered pools, such as sme credits, infrastructure projects which are not guaranteed by government, or consumer credits, and possibly to shipping finance.
expanding the institutional environment to these riskier or less liquid classes of assets would be growth-enhancing, we believe, and would serve the objectives of the capital markets union.
what could not be financed with this money, for example, for good education, good work or for sustainable public investments!
the oecd action plan on the environment and climate action plan, which was adopted in december 2012, sets out the following principles for the development of the oecd's environmental policy: companies with a turnover of more than eur 750 million are required to provide the tax authorities with an overview of the global distribution of income and taxes.
in the face of the challenges of brexit, international globalisation, climate change, what would your message be?
for example, people want to know where their textiles come from, and that there is no social and environmental dumping involved.
i often say that security for us is also development cooperation, climate change action, investment in peacekeeping, and so on.
that is why the sequence of our work began with an assessment of the security environment.
at the same time, we are missing a link to real sustainable policies, because spending money alone will not solve the problems.
the european companies and our banks concerned must be better protected to ensure the sustainable development of cuba.
we all knew over this process that it was worth investing time and energy in this, because we knew for sure that we were fighting for something good.
the international political environment is currently particularly charged and global cooperation can no longer be taken for granted.
i will refer to trade, climate, migration, digitalisation and countering terrorism.
as was stressed by the june european council, we need to foster a truly level playing field, while remaining vigilant concerning the respect and promotion of key standards, including social, environmental, health and consumer standards, which are central to the european way of life.
on climate change, we are all aware that the global community needs to act urgently and move forward with the implementation of the paris agreement.
the agreement remains a cornerstone of global efforts to effectively tackle climate change, and it cannot be renegotiated.
i can only further confirm that the council under the estonian presidency will continue in its commitment to ambitious global action against climate change and support the global ownership of the paris agreement.
we will have to minimize the effects of the us decision on the effectiveness and credibility of the climate framework.
its importance is expected to grow in the coming years, boosting the political profile and momentum for climate action.
in this regard, the g20 is launching the g20 africa partnership, which should foster sustainable and inclusive economic growth and development.
this also ties in closely with the ongoing legislative work in the eu on the external investment plan, including the european fund for sustainable development and the european investment bank's external lending mandate.
economy and trade will certainly feature large, but also the fight against terrorism, as well sustainable development, climate change and energy, migration, africa, health, digitalisation, employment and women’s empowerment.
examples include our commitment to the paris agreement, progress on our progressive, values-based trade agenda, and our engagement with developing countries through the european fund for sustainable development on which the house will vote this week.
the european investment plan is well on track, having led to more than eur 200 billion in additional and sustainable investments.
on climate and energy, we will reaffirm our strong commitment to the paris agreement, clean energy transition and support for the poor and vulnerable in the fight against climate change, and we will maintain cohesion within the g19 despite the us decision to withdraw from the paris agreement.
on africa: we will support close partnership with africa to foster sustainable growth and job creation.
the only sustainable solution is growth and more optimism in africa, so that people understand it is in their interest to stay in africa and to develop their own countries, instead of going to europe.
if we look at the agenda for the g20 meeting and the choice of topics, it seems to me that dissent is also pre-programmed, especially in the area of climate policy.
the g20, which accounts for 80 percent of the world's gross domestic product, is meeting to discuss important issues: trade, migration, tax dumping, climate change, security and terrorism.
this is the money we need to fight poverty and climate change.
there is no question that we need to develop a sustainable development strategy for africa so that people can have a perspective at home and make their life chances a reality there.
the way in between is the globalisation of social and environmental rules, which must go hand in hand with the opening up of markets, and therefore we can only say to the eu: the time has come, with the free trade agenda, with the bilateral agreements as they have been designed so far, as you have now redesigned them with japan, not to continue simply like this, but we need treaties that take the opportunity of the hour to enforce social and environmental rules as part of these standards.
we must not allow this to continue, but we must strengthen international cooperation, but in a way that strengthens social and environmental rules.
we cooperate in many important areas of joint interest, such as counter—terrorism, foreign and security policy, energy, the economy and trade, as well as migration.
we have seen dramatic developments in turkey, and the situation has been well and truly described here: thousands of dismissals, hundreds of arrests, a witch hunt against political dissidents, the abolition of the rule of law and a climate of fear that prevails in that country.
it is the proposal to finally put the dialogue on an honest footing: on energy policy, on the customs union, on visa liberalization, on tourism, on environmental issues.
i thank and congratulate all my colleagues for the good work they have done and for the fact that the european fund for sustainable development bears the signature of the european parliament.
first, the un 2030 sustainable development goals must be visible and identified as a reference as the main criterion in all projects and policies.
i therefore welcome the commitment to use at least 28% of investment in the fight against climate change, renewable energy and sustainable resources.
the eu must now also demonstrate strong leadership in the implementation of the agenda, both at home, at the eu member state level, and in the context of the high-level political forum on sustainable development.
eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions is an indispensable requirement for sustainable development, which must be achieved in all its dimensions in a balanced and integrated manner.
there can be no doubt about our commitment to achieving the 17 sustainable development goals by 2030, ensuring that no one is left behind and seeking to reach the furthest behind first.
even though much remains to be done in terms of concrete action, the council of 20 june welcomed the steps proposed and taken by the commission with regard to the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goal.
at the same time, it integrates the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development and underlines the links between development and other policies, including peace and security, humanitarian aid, migration, the environment and climate change.
given the strong link with climate action, through the new consensus we are also giving a timely political signal to reaffirm our strong commitment to implement the paris agreement.
the eu member states consider the high level forum as the main forum for sustainable development issues within the un framework and are committed to progress towards implementation of the sustainable development goals.
the european parliament’s report on sustainability goals, adopted in may 2016, shows broad convergence with council views on how to advance this ambitious agenda through effective implementation and we are looking forward to cooperating with you on this topic to ensure that, together, we reach our goals by 2030.
member of the commission.
the united nations 2030 agenda, adopted unanimously by world leaders in 2015, represents a new global sustainable development framework.
it is a commitment to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development by 2030 worldwide, ensuring that no one is left behind.
sustainable development is a shared responsibility.
i therefore welcome the opportunity here today to react to the european parliament’s own initiative report in response to the commission communication ‘next steps for a sustainable european future’ presented in november last year.
from the perspective of my own portfolio, i am pleased to see in the report several strong references to how the environment and natural resources underpin the achievement of the broader sustainability agenda.
i also welcome the references to the 7th environment action programme, whose objectives map well on to the sustainable development goals (sdg).
i will ensure that the current 7th environmental action plan evaluation will look at its consistency with our priorities and sustainable development goals commitments to pave the way for the period post 2020. the commission’s communication of november highlights key eu policies for each of the 17 sdgs, particularly in the context of the 10 priorities of this commission, and also outlines what further steps are envisaged.
firstly, to mainstream the sustainable development goals in the european policy framework and commission priorities, sustainable development becoming a guiding principle for all our policies.
initiatives, supported by the commission for the next month, include a non-toxic environment strategy, an ambitious plastics strategy and a comprehensive review of water legislation.
other sessions of the high-level political forum will cover a range of issues, including sessions on specific sustainable development goals: sustainable development goal (sdg) 1 on poverty, sdg 2 on hunger, sdg 3 on health, sdg 5 on gender equality, 9 on infrastructure and 14 on oceans.
the term sustainability was coined by hans carl von carlowitz in germany over 300 years ago.
he introduced sustainable forestry in 1713 and told people that no more wood could be cut than was actually growing.
sustainability is a big word today, sometimes an inflationary word.
the question of how we design sustainability has a direct impact on our present and our future.
the united nations adopted 17 detailed sustainability goals in the 2030 agenda, which also formed the basis for our report.
it was important to me in the committee on agriculture that we consider the consideration of all three pillars - social, economic and environmental - as being equal.
sustainability can work if a sense of regionality and production processes is developed again in primary products.
the rapidly growing antibiotic resistance is the biggest threat to humanity, next to global warming.
the outcome of the vote on this report in the committee was very well received by a number of ngos working in the fields of poverty reduction, health, the environment and animal welfare.
i appeal to you: give the future a chance, vote for sustainability!
the united nations sustainable development goals are a commitment to all of us, and they are about our common future.
but we need sustainable development with farmers, with industry, with all the partners, and that is why i am very glad that we have managed to work out compromises with the rapporteur so that we can make this clearer than it has been in the past in the report.
we cannot say: nothing must change in industry, nothing must change in agriculture, but we must look together for new ways - innovative ways - of actually bringing economic growth, social aspects and environmental aspects together.
secondly, we know that we need sustainable development in agriculture and food.
two years after adopting the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the commission has still not presented a comprehensive strategy and timetable.
trade agreements between the eu and member states should pay greater attention to fair and sustainable conditions.
and third, climate diplomacy should be pursued as the central goal.
sustainability is very important.
sustainable development has many aspects, as we have seen in the contributions.
i would like to focus on one sustainability objective above all others, which so far, out of all others, has only been mentioned by commissioner vella himself.
we're going to need water for food, for climate, for climate change, for energy, for raw materials, for transportation and trade - for a lot of things - and also for health, for example, for medicine.
it is clearly a call for an ambitious response to the 2030 agenda and i can assure everyone that sustainable development is and will remain at the heart of eu policy-making.
but we have to be operational: sustainable development is complex and interlinked and so must go beyond simple declarations.
the commission is committed to ensure an agenda of results, and i have had the opportunity to remind the environment ministers that we will not be judged only on what we announce but on what we do.
with regards to reporting, i would like to mention here the environmental implementation review and, as outlined in the report, the eir has already served as a useful tool in highlighting implementation gaps in the member states, and the commission has already started to take action based on these.
but let’s be very clear: sdgs are not exclusively and only about the environment and development, and in this context, i particularly welcome the proposal in the seb dance report for a cross-committee working group on sustainable development goals to ensure a horizontal working within parliament as well.
– mr president, the debate today shows that we share the same objective of achieving poverty eradication and sustainable development through effective implementation of the 2030 agenda.
what criteria - international schools, jobs, research environment, pharmacological research, for example - do the commission and the council have in place for lille to meet?
but i am advocating a sustainable solution, sustainable for strasbourg - we do not have to re-discuss this every year - for france, for the european union and also for the european taxpayers.
but i don't think that's a sustainable solution.
the saying is quite clear: almost everything is eu competence: services, transport services, intellectual property issues, of course market opening, public procurement and also the issue of sustainability and workers' rights.
– mr president, it is a pleasure to be here today and to take part in your deliberations on the proposal on the european union emissions trading system for aviation.
aviation greenhouse gas emissions are growing sharply and clearly have the potential to put at risk the achievement of the climate targets we committed to in paris two years ago if they are not adequately addressed.
the european union has taken the lead in addressing these emissions by covering them under its emissions trading system and is also working hard at the international civil aviation organization (icao) for effective global measures.
precisely, this commission proposal we are debating today follows the adoption by the icao assembly in october last year of a resolution on the so-called corsia (carbon offsetting and reduction scheme), a global measure to offset aviation emissions beyond 2020 levels after many years of efforts and following up on the paris agreement sealed a year before.
as we already recognised, this was an important and welcome first development to address aviation emissions globally, despite being below the european union ambition.
and finally, it contains an empowerment to adopt delegated acts on monitoring, reporting and verification of emissions in order that the european union is ready to implement corsia in that regard.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
in the last few days, we have had a sad opportunity to talk about climate change.
you can't say that individual natural disasters are caused directly by climate change, but the floods in south asia and the hurricanes in the caribbean and the united states show that we have a problem here, because all the serious researchers say that these events are going to increase if we don't do something about climate change.
but firstly, the share is growing, and secondly, you have to put that in proportion: if you add up the emissions of the 129 countries that have committed themselves in paris - and that includes the member states of the european union and other industrialized countries - you get the same value as international air traffic.
i think we all see that as something that we need -- including for aviation, for emissions -- right now, given what's happening to people in the caribbean, with bad things.
that's a climate change effect that we have to fight against.
we have to see now that the best way to help the climate is to have a global system.
i am a little surprised that the focus of attention in aviation today is on one system of reducing co2 emissions, namely the trading of allowances, although there are a number of other options available in aviation that have been used in the past.
new engine technologies, new aircraft with completely new wing technologies that are quieter and lower emission: a european airspace would go a long way towards reducing our co2 emissions.
all of these are measures that reduce co2 emissions.
and that is why we have stopped the clock, because the third countries have not wanted to follow suit and because we wanted to impose on them a system which does not really help to reduce emissions in relation to the measures i have mentioned.
this evening we are once again discussing europe's contribution to combating climate change.
it is about europe's contribution to the implementation of the paris agreement on climate change - all this in the light of an american president who has resigned from the same and in the light of the events of the last few days.
forests play a prominent role in climate protection.
sustainable forest management is absolutely positive.
we have started to implement the paris agreement on climate change, to bring it to life.
the forest and its enormous contribution to combating global warming play a major role in this.
in order to reliably represent the contribution of forests to climate change, we need to have robust and reliable accounting rules for co2 uptake and emissions.
the eu is under particular scrutiny, particularly in view of the world climate conference in bonn in november this year.
in the lulucf sector, there is no reduction potential, but on the contrary, there is a huge potential to counteract climate change.
active and sustainable forest management must be designed to be good for the forest, the climate and, last but not least, the forest owner.
why does the forest have a double positive effect on climate?
together, our forests absorb 10% of the eu's total greenhouse gas emissions.
secondly, the forest provides wood to strengthen the bioeconomy - wood used for example in house building for furniture and in energy production.
all sectors must be involved in our efforts to combat climate change, including agriculture and forestry.
but it is because sustainable forestry is already contributing to climate protection.
forest management is a positive thing from a climate protection point of view and from many other points of view, and we want to acknowledge this contribution.
if you fully acknowledge the forest sector, then in a country like brazil, you could say, you don't need to burden your power plants, your steel plants and many other facilities with any kind of climate targets at all, and that would be bad for the climate.
only sustainable forestry can help to solve the problem.
a forestry system based on fast-growing trees, such as the eucalyptus in southern europe, does not contribute to climate protection.
so it's important that we support sustainable systems.
there is one thing we must not do: we cannot use the lulucf model as a clearing house and expect things to be fine in other areas, while emissions are not reduced in, for example, transport.
i appreciate your commitment to maintaining the european union’s role as a path-breaker in the area of international climate action.
they have a particular potential for a flourishing bio-economy and this can help in replacing emissions from many sectors, especially through harvested wood products and also biofuels, while at the same time maintaining, or even raising, the forest sinks.
i am convinced that the council, under the leadership of the estonian presidency, will be able to move forward swiftly before the next climate conference in bonn in november.
i think we are at least partly mistaken in thinking that, to put it simply, less logging means more climate protection.
to put it a little more bluntly, a national park that is primarily designed to ensure more biodiversity is certainly not a forest that protects the climate, but the opposite: you can simply say that a national park is a climate change-maker in the long run, because it can of course absorb less co2 in the long run.
and then bioeconomy: the paris agreement on climate change is also very clear that we need to increase this.
but there are many other applications, such as climate change, monitoring co2 or methane emissions, agriculture, fisheries, major construction projects.
energy efficiency is recognised as a measure to reduce our dependence on energy supplies from third countries.
energy efficiency must now be taken into account in the preparation of national prevention plans.
the safest and cheapest energy is always the energy that does not need to be produced in the first place.
they complained that in britain energy companies are foreign-owned or even owned by foreign governments.
do you seriously think that the european union has prevented the united kingdom from having shares or ownership in energy companies?
and what do you propose the british government to do to get their own energy companies back?
i do not think that the eu has prevented the uk from running its own energy companies.
it was clearly a good cooperation of parliament and i think we have achieved a breakthrough here in that it is a real step towards an energy union.
of course, biogas also plays a role, as the finnish colleague said, but we want to rely on renewable energy.
even the best law does not seem to deter enough to actually stop this criminal energy and this fraud.
the discussions in the committee on agriculture, in the committee on the environment yesterday and in the plenary today show the seriousness of the subject.
i met just last week with the director-general of the international atomic energy agency, mr amano, and the executive secretary of the comprehensive test ban treaty organization, dr zerbo.
– mr president, the fight against corruption is one of the sustainable development targets of the 2030 agenda and is therefore reflected in the new european consensus on development adopted in june.
respect for land rights, including customary and equitable access to land, is essential for sustainable development and for the enjoyment of fundamental human rights.
we are all upset by the breach of trust, but on the other hand, we must also consider jobs when it comes to climate change.
we need climate protection and cars and jobs - we do not need climate protection instead of cars and jobs - and here again i call on all of us to pay attention to this in our legislative projects in the coming weeks and months.
first of all, very seriously, when we talk about climate change, the socialists are in favour of fighting against climate change, as are the greens and the ppe.
if governments fail, at least environmental organizations and consumers must be able to ensure that they themselves can effectively enforce their rights.
– mr president, it is now almost two years since it was revealed in september 2015 that, based on the findings of the united states environmental protection agency, the vehicle manufacturer volkswagen had used a hidden software to allow diesel engine cars to pass nitrogen oxide, commonly referred to as nox, emissions tests by the american regulating authorities, while the same car models were proven to emit up to 40 times the legal limit of nitrogen oxides in real world driving.
in this regard, let me highlight the meticulous and intensive work of the committee on emissions measurements in the automotive sector, which finalised its report in march of this year.
it concluded that the fact that there were large discrepancies between nox emissions in diesel cars measured in the laboratories and on the road had been known to many stakeholders since at least 2005. but the dieselgate scandal is just one aspect of a much wider problem.
decisive action has been taken here, for instance by reaching an agreement between the two co-legislators on the national emissions ceiling directive, which entered into force on 31 december 2016 and must be transposed by 30 june 2018. this directive sets stricter national limits for the period 2020-2029, and from 2030 onwards, for the emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia and fine particulate matter.
on procedures to test emissions from cars, major steps have been taken by the commission.
this test will complement and improve laboratory tests for all emissions, including co2 and fuel consumption, as well as nox and other air pollutants.
the emissions scandal has shown that we need in particular better car testing and good market surveillance.
together with the eu member states and the eu institutions, we need to decisively pursue eu-wide efforts to foster low emissions mobility.
– mr president, let me first thank honourable members for this opportunity to provide them with an update on recent developments on the emissions scandal.
when elżbieta bieńkowska met you last time in april to discuss this case, she pledged, on behalf of the commission, that we would fully follow up on the conclusions of the committee on emissions in the automotive sector in the final report and its recommendations.
in this context, we are happy to see that, after the first round of national negotiations in the emissions scandal in 2016, a second round was launched in early 2017. there are some enforcement actions underway.
as for the vehicles of the volkswagen group which were at the origin of the emissions scandal and as such were already identified as non—compliant with current emission rules, a recall campaign by the manufacturer is underway across the eu.
but we have to keep in mind that the measures proposed by the industry have to lead to an effective reduction of emissions on the road and not only in the laboratory.
we are also working to increase the transparency and control of emissions from vehicles by allowing independent parties to test used vehicles.
two years after the emissions scandal was uncovered, it is clear that despite the evidence of the damage caused to the environment and people by emissions, despite multi-billion-dollar lawsuits against the emissions fraudsters, the threat of driving bans, the highly critical results of the eu committees in brussels, but also in berlin, are still being debated.
we need more stringent regulations on emissions, we need uniform type-approval - we have discussed this for a long time - the strictest controls and, please, no apologies for cartels, which are nothing more than organized crime at their core.
we need bold eu programmes for renewable energy and electric mobility and an infrastructure for this, and we need the expansion of public transport, attractive carsharing to protect the environment and people.
the diesel scandal is the best example of what consumerism can lead to: the fraud of tens of millions of car buyers, the irresponsible taking of health risks, massive environmental damage and a loss of confidence in politics.
that's why we need real driving emissions as soon as possible.
one last one: the european economy loses a billion euros every day because of congestion, and of course there are a lot of emissions that could be stopped.
despite the emissions scandal, almost one in two cars in the european union runs on diesel.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
the current diesel debate sometimes has a similar reality to that of the emissions figures in the test laboratory: almost none.
it is and will remain a climate-friendly technology of the future, and will secure millions of jobs.
he would end up like the green party's former environment minister, johannes remmel.
but i also think that the opponents of diesel should take note that in germany alone, nitrogen oxide emissions have fallen by 60% in the last 30 years, not increased.
the commission is therefore proposing to introduce a new system of energy efficiency in the european union.
and without diesel technology, we're not going to meet our carbon targets.
secondly, unlike the commission, we are proposing a mandatory integration of the built environment, which means that in future new buildings and major renovations will have to be planned with accessibility in mind.
as far as the built environment is concerned, i think we need to extend the scale we have in rail transport to other modes of transport.
it is good that we go far beyond what the commission had originally proposed and do not leave it to the member states to choose but to oblige them to make the built environment, such as the railway platform and the bus station, barrier-free.
of course, i completely agree with you regarding the climate change role in this new phenomenon with devastating situations, hurricanes, many other completely new phenomena of the world’s conditions.
secondly, the legislator should be able to adopt measures for recreational fishing if they are necessary for the sustainability of stocks.
multi-annual plans will give us the tools to manage these fisheries in a modern and sustainable way.
following the baltic plan helps to avoid having to negotiate once again those points that were already discussed in detail and settled during the trilogue negotiations back in 2016, such as the use of maximum sustainable yield (msy) ranges.
whatever the political context may be, we will need to have a multi-annual plan in any case, to enable us to put in place a modern management framework for sustainable fisheries.
i particularly support the request to the commission that this agreement also include binding obligations for investors and binding instruments for the implementation of the important sustainability chapter for people here and there.
as you know, our stance on this project derives directly from the energy union objectives and in particular from our desire to enhance energy security through creating a well-diversified, secure and competitive gas market.
i know that these concerns relating to the impact of the project on the energy union objectives are shared by many members of this house.
the starting point for such a specific legal regime should be the core principles of international and european union energy law.
our aim is to ensure that a project of this scale, which impacts the internal market and security of supply, is operated according to the main principles of international and european union energy rules.
one aspect is the energy question.
the european union has clear objectives on energy: we want diversification, we want to tie in more resources so that we become more independent.
i was on the ground in stralsund and talked to the farmers concerned and the environmental associations and the permitting authorities.
that is the central point of this report, and it is why parliament also stresses the importance of free and open-source software and reiterates that, with respect to the internet of things, producers are the key starting-point for tightening up liability regimes which will lead to a better quality of products and a more secure environment in terms of external access and a documented update facility.
there's cooperation on the environment or the un's sustainability goals or the question of natural resources.
we are discussing in the report the obligation of companies investing in the context of the very close trade and investment relations between the eu and asean, the obligation in terms of social and environmental responsibility.
the rest of the world is pulling together, climate action is an important issue, and we're very pleased that many in the united states have recognized that.
of course, you can never attribute a single extreme weather event to climate change, but it's clear from the science that such events would increase if we acted like trump and not like the rest of the world.
i'd like to interrupt your well-being momentarily with a few figures: china is responsible for just over 28% of the co2 emissions in this world.
the united states is responsible for about 16 percent of the carbon emissions in this world.
together, these four countries account for 55 percent of the world's co2 emissions.
china has announced that it will not reduce its co2 emissions until 2030. the united states - as you all here lament - has already announced that it is withdrawing from the climate agreement.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people.
when mr juncker says that the eu should be in the lead, he probably means that the eu is a leading figure in climate action.
ladies and gentlemen, dear climate alarmists, let's look at what we can do.
the world's climate will not be saved by the european union, it will not be saved by the european union, and you are making a fool of yourself in bonn with your demands.
while cop23 is being held in germany, the presidency is held by a country that is already hugely affected by climate change - fiji - as are the other pacific island nations.
so i think with other colleagues in this house that bonn needs to be a moment again where the world commits to the paris agreement and to climate action, and where we put climate deniers and critics in the box, put them in isolation.
parliament is proposing much higher targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency than the commission has, and we must also do much better by 2030. i believe that we also need to have clear objectives for the long term, up to 2050, the actors need to know where they are going and climate protection is also development policy, it is also industrial policy.
the window of opportunity to do something about global warming is getting smaller and smaller.
to achieve the climate targets, we need to focus more on the climate-damaging emissions from agriculture.
i have already pointed out on several occasions in this house that the global meat and dairy industry is responsible for some 18% of emissions in co2 equivalents.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the effects of climate change.
whether we save our planet from climate collapse depends on the political will to take new paths.
anyone who takes the paris climate targets and climate science seriously knows that we are left with a very tight budget for greenhouse gas emissions.
and, mr arias cañete, this is for you: the climate targets you are advocating for the european commission, which are not exceeded or topped up in the council, mean that almost everything that eu member states are still allowed to release under the paris targets will be used up by 2030. their hesitation over the years means that emissions after 2030 - in just a decade!
and the lack of courage and all the hesitation in the european commission is not only causing us to lose on climate protection, but at the same time it is leaving the european union behind in the international competition for creative solutions and sustainable technologies.
we believe that what coal and steel were in the founding phase of the european community, that is, its centre, and what has been done there, must now become efficiency technologies, climate technologies, and that this is where the real renewal of the industrial base of the european union lies.
let us start in the right direction - for our environment, for our children, against hormone-disrupting chemicals!
it goes beyond that because in many respects the commission is not trying to set criteria but is simply trying to get rid of environmental bans.
the next european council, in ten days' time, must be an opportunity to take a few more steps in this direction, in the same spirit of urgency and energy as that which emerged from the recent speeches by jean-claude juncker, emmanuel macron and antonio costa.
whether it is migration or the market economy, energy policy or enlargement, there are some very different approaches between east and west, between north and south.
the new european fund for sustainable development is also intended to complement development cooperation, so that european guarantees can generate billions of dollars of investment for africa.
we should punish those entrepreneurs who break these sanctions with the kerch bridge or in the energy sector.
if you did that for a lot of other things, we'd be way behind in our consumer and environmental standards.
and what the environmental committee has proposed for cadmium is just one possibility.
so it's a precautionary measure that may cost money - no question - but it has to be done in the long term to protect the environment.
it is clear that excessive nutrient intake leads to environmental and health damage.
chemical substances which may be harmful to human health or the environment must therefore not be used in fertilisers.
and i must say that i am very shy in my criticism of the environment committee, which has taken a decision, but the keywords jobs, geological conditions, the safety of raw materials, practicality have been of marginal interest to the environment committee.
the scheme proposed by the commission, supported by the environment committee, would mean that we would have to close the lime mines around the corner and then have to transport our lime from a great distance.
the commission is also proposing to extend the the last summit took place in an environment within the european union which has made it clear that the hasty assessments made a few weeks ago that we were out of the crisis were not true.
we greens have also proposed an eu sustainability and prosperity pact for the european monetary union (emu) and the emu must go hand in hand with a binding roadmap for social, economic and environmental convergence.
lastly, on climate change, we do need much more effort.
but it also means, mr timmermans, that we are going to review the 1 200 existing european investment agreements and amend them accordingly, in particular the energy charter, because otherwise we are not credible if we have two standards.
that is why we are calling for the abolition of permanent subsidies, except in small areas of exception, such as environmental protection.
if this system worked, no doubt we would have a better, more secure environment in our european union.
it's this climate of permissiveness, this culture of permissiveness of abuse.
the sustainable response to the causes of displacement, such as climate disasters, instability and war-related poverty, must be achieved through a networked approach of development cooperation, humanitarian aid and a common security policy.
these trade agreements can create jobs, bring about benefits to consumers and also support workers’ rights and environmental and climate change objectives.
thirdly, the enforcement mechanism in the sustainability chapter.
i would like to make it quite clear, also on behalf of the rapporteur, to my colleagues on the committee on agriculture and to all those who fear that our continent could be too much changed by globalisation and free trade: we will also ensure that our standards, whether they be social standards, environmental standards or consumer protection standards, are guaranteed in the committee on trade.
it is going beyond its mandate, it is implementing measures that are not sustainable in any way, and the burden will be on the eu citizens, the taxpayers.
the aim of the environmental liability directive was to introduce non-contractual liability for the prevention and remediation of environmental damage, based on the polluter pays principle.
the obligation to report environmental damage is not being met.
we therefore need an obligation to set up a central public database to which all citizens can have access and be informed about environmental damage.
we must also clarify definitions such as the significance of environmental damage.
and finally, the remediation of environmental damage costs money.
in order to be able to pay for this removal in any case, we need a compulsory environmental liability insurance for operators and we also need to clarify the issue of secondary liability.
it must not be that environmental damage cannot be remedied because of the lack of liquidity of the polluters, because then even the best law will not help.
the eprivacy regulation aims to put users back in control of their communication data and to make sure that confidentiality of communication in a digital environment becomes a reality for everyone.
(applause)
the next item is the debate on the enlarged bureau's request to the commission, pursuant to rule 130b of the rules of procedure, to submit to the european parliament and to the council, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment and the environmental protection of the european union (eea) and the european year of the environment and the environment of the european union (eea) (o-000074/2017 2017/2867 ((rsp)) (b8-0603/2017).
so the good thing is that we want to create more mobility in this - we all want that - and we will of course also provide for digitisation and other improvements - environmental friendliness, etc.
the role of driver assistance systems is to firstly alert the driver to hazards and to assist and relieve him, secondly to promote fuel-efficient driving and thirdly to contribute to the sustainability of road traffic and to a fluid traffic flow.
much of the world's seagrass meadows have already been destroyed in recent decades, with massive impacts on biodiversity.
we must act now to preserve marine biodiversity.
the pollution of rivers and seas by nitrogen and phosphate must be drastically reduced through stricter legislation and better control mechanisms, because if the sea is lost, so will humanity.
we also need to look at how we can integrate the sustainable development goals, as well as the paris agreement on climate change and also the issue of trade and gender balance.
at the same time, all wto member states must deal with the fact that they have committed themselves to the un's 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
accession to the customs union, energy union, digital union, schengen area, and the gradual abolition of roaming charges all indicate a wide range of ways in which this eastern partnership can and should be further developed.
the summit will take stock of developments across the four priority areas of cooperation: economic development and market opportunities; strengthening institutions and good governance; connectivity, energy efficiency, environment and climate change; and, fourthly, mobility and people-to-people contacts.
it includes the fight against corruption, the modernisation of public administrations, improved transport and energy connections, digitalisation, greener economies, trade and investment promotion, support for small and middle-sized enterprises, educational exchanges and youth empowerment.
the report by the committee on foreign affairs takes into account some of the key elements that have been identified for the summit: firstly, supporting an ambitious investment for the trans-european transport core network; secondly, increasing political ownership of energy efficiency; thirdly, supporting smes and their access to finance; fourthly, paving the way for a reduction in roaming tariffs among partner countries; fifthly, boosting trade opportunities with the eu and among the partner countries; sixthly, providing broad and targeted support to grass-root ngos; seventhly, supporting young people, and especially addressing youth unemployment through entrepreneurship education; and, finally, stepping up strategic communication through a comprehensive approach based on the four priorities agreed in riga and the new eastern partnership visual identity.
in doing that, the eastern partnership should be taken forward not in isolation but in conjunction with other global commitments: the sustainable development goals, the paris agreement, etcetera.
sustainable development in the eastern partnership matters to the european union.
this is essential in order to address the realities of today’s international trading environment and to restore a level playing field.
it will also be the first time that our legislation will acknowledge the significance of social and environmental standards in the trade-defence field.
if there is really structural dumping, and that includes whether state-owned enterprises are involved, whether energy is subsidized, whether company law, land law favours companies or whether energy or access to finance is subsidised, all these are factors that structurally give a competitive advantage, then we have to act.
in particular, we have succeeded in including respect for workers' rights and environmental standards as criteria for the dumping calculation.
dumping is also when you disregard labour and environmental standards, and that has to stop.
the council and parliament have agreed for the first time to punish cases of social and environmental dumping.
the legislation which is to regulate the modernisation of trade protection instruments and, in our view, environmental and social standards in general, has been stuck in negotiations for years.
on the other hand, i also reiterate that our citizens expect to be protected against unfair practices on the world market - unfair practices in terms of environmental protection, social regulations or even tax dumping.
i think it is good that both environmental and nature protection directives have been retained for the time being and that we are taking care of their implementation above all else.
we are losing a lot of biodiversity here, and we all have to work together.
because to preserve biodiversity, we need all the players in the system, especially those who use it.
the mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy clearly shows that we will not achieve our 2020 targets.
on the contrary, biodiversity is declining at a rapid rate.
in addition to the destruction of habitats by humans, climate change, pollution and the spread of exotic species, intensive agriculture is largely responsible for this sad development.
the broad acceptance and participation of all stakeholders is fundamental to enhancing biodiversity.
when highly protected species have reached a good conservation status and are also threatening sustainable rural development, the commission must take action.
and in all of this highly interesting situation, that we're desperate to restore biodiversity, to protect it, that we've actually brought certain species that were on the verge of extinction back into a population, into a state where we can be happy that it's there.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the question of where the energy comes from is the only question in e-mobility.
i think we must pursue this, not just in the committee on transport and the environment, but in all committees.
two important issues are currently being discussed at the bonn climate conference.
first, it is about how countries can reduce their emissions in a comparable and transparent way.
both are also important for regulating or limiting greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector, which could soon be the largest sector in the eu.
i've been involved in carbon policy for 25 years, and i have to be honest with you, i expected worse.
food production has a lot to do with the local regions, with the people who work in them, and it also has to do with how we then deal with the environment.
on november 8th, exactly three weeks ago, california governor jerry brown was a guest in this house, and he received a lot of praise from many of our colleagues for his active climate policy in california and for his diplomatic work globally, trying to limit some of the damage that president trump is doing to international climate policy.
when asked if he was satisfied with what he was doing in california or what he was seeing globally in active climate policy, jerry brown said: "to be honest, we are not on track.
i would also like to see the european commission, especially after the bonn climate conference, being just as honest.
it is a good thing, mr arias cañete, that the commission is insisting that we are on the best possible path to achieving our climate objectives.
if you measure this against the objectives you have set for yourself as a european for the energy transition, then you may well be on the right track.
if you look at the climate budgets, the carbon budgets that we have left, then if you do the energy economy the way you're doing it now, we would have to be completely decarbonized after 2030 to 2040 in 10 years.
i want to be honest in the balance sheet on climate targets, and i want to think bigger, because i have long been convinced that the european union needs and has an innovation project.
the climate union - similar to the security union, which we have now settled fairly quickly - is the innovation project for the european union.
and we're not defending the sustainability of our industry if we're slowing down on renewables or efficiency.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the left in this house wants 40%, but that - and all the impact assessments say that - would destroy the ets system, and we have to consider whether we are not rather hindering the structural change to renewable energy with a 40% commitment to savings.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
that means we're going to need more electricity, more electricity from renewable energy at the outlet.
that is why we cannot say now that we have to save 40 per cent of energy.
we are thus hindering the structural change towards renewable energy.
if we fail to see these links, if we stop the development of renewable energy, it is not about efficiency - and i say this quite explicitly to the left - it is about playing poker, it is about playing poker with the council and with the others.
and if parliament is playing poker, it is no better than an ngo which, with its exaggerated environmental views, sometimes interferes in the political process of opinion formation.
mr president, yesterday the committee on industry, research and energy voted for renewable targets for the year 2030. it was very interesting to see that those members in this house who usually cannot have enough of europe were becoming very nationalistic.
in the energy sector, we now have targets for just about everything.
we have emission targets, efficiency targets, renewable targets, interconnector targets and so on.
this would enable them not only to stay in the energy union, and of course in the common market, but it would also enable them to stay in the european union.
today, almost exactly one year ago, the european commission presented the clean energy for all europeans package.
and since then the energy committee has been working hard on the eight legislative proposals from the commission.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, such as the introduction of a new energy tax on buildings.
2018 will be a year of energy for europe: security of supply and market, energy efficiency and lower emissions, innovation and competitiveness.
the energy union has ambitious targets.
the energy union cannot be a black box of less winners.
no, good energy needs full power.
good energy needs a real turnaround.
good energy must be sustainable, decentralised and guarantee regional added value.
europe's best energy is citizen energy, generated in good, nationwide networks and not chased across the country in disastrous monster raids.
we do well to ask, also in this energy union, where the electricity comes from, and to be clear: there is more than just the can.
i would like to emphasize one aspect of your proposal which is particularly important to me: the energy transition must be socially fair.
so we're talking about a five-digit number of jobs that are directly tied to this energy source, lignite.
families and friends are grieving for the victims of this latest disaster, and greece really is one of the hotspots of the effect of climate change that we see all over europe.
it is one thing is, of course, to respond to a disaster, but the second question is how to prevent it from happening again in the future – with smart urban planning, with making sure that we respect the environment, keeping green zones, and making sure that rivers can extend when there is heavy rainfall.
all those prevention measures will become more and more important as we see climate change progressing.
yes, development requires a secure and peaceful environment, but how do you achieve that with military training, arms exports and military cooperation?
secondly, we are naturally particularly interested in what this means for the european bilateral investment agreements and for the only investment agreement adopted by the european union with isds, the energy charter.
all international experience says that we need a right of action also for municipalities, cities and countries, for the victims of transnational corporations' violations of human, social and environmental rights.
even if it succeeds in creating a court of justice which meets the criteria mentioned above: as long as the isds instrument remains in the energy charter treaty, we as the eu will be left to our own devices.
i hope we can provide the impetus for all nations, all regions and states, yes, all municipalities to do everything possible to guarantee an environment free of barriers.
we have succeeded in creating the possibility of more biodiversity.
the most important points, however, have of course been the greening and the extension of the planting of the ecological priority areas.
thanks to this, this new legislation contains essential elements to ensure sustainable fishing, such as strict eligibility criteria for obtaining a fishing authorisation, a reference to scientific evaluations, a clear division of tasks between member states and the commission, and also rules to ensure full transparency on fishing activities.
the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 12 december 2017.
the next item is the debate on the report by julie girling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec to maintain the current limitation of its application to aviation activities and to prepare for the implementation of a global market-based mechanism from 2021 (com2017) 0054 - c8-0028/2017 - 2017/0017 (cod)) (a8-0258/2017).
firstly, the deal ensure the continuation of the european union ets for intra-european flights beyond 2017. from 2021, the european union ets for aviation will be strengthened through the application of the 2.2% yearly emissions reduction.
we are also committed to assessing how the sector passes its carbon costs onto its customers, with a view to increasing the auctioning share in the next review.
secondly, the commission will report regularly to the european parliament and the council on international developments, notably on the implementation of corsia, carbon offsetting and a reduction scheme for international aviation.
as agreed, the commission will submit a new proposal to amend the ets directive, with the aim of implementing corsia in a way that is consistent with our climate target.
finally the text agreed by the co-legislators contains an empowerment to adopt delegated acts on monitoring, reporting and verification of the emissions, and this is in order for the european union to be able to implement corsia in that regard.
honourable members, in our view the agreed text strikes a good balance between the leadership we should continue to have by addressing aviation emissions, the reinforced european union ets, and the responsiveness of european union policies to international developments, notably the expected operationalisation of the scheme based on the assessment of their robustness and their effectiveness, which you asked the commission to produce.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
we have supported the limited scope, we have supported the exemptions for non-commercial aircraft operators with total annual emissions of less than 1 000 tonnes of co2 and we have called on the commission to push forward the development of the global market-based mechanism corsia.
the fact is that parliament wanted to suspend aviation emissions trading between the eu and third countries only until 2020. i think that would have been really too soon, because by 2021 corsia is supposed to be introduced.
but i have to say, i've been working on this for many years, and i was very skeptical at first that the icao would ever come up with a global proposal for a global emissions certificate system.
i think it's perfectly clear that with global aviation, we also need global tools to save the climate worldwide.
but i also have to say that the ets has not reduced emissions much.
it is inefficient in its current configuration, in terms of climate targets and costs.
air transport emissions are expected to be 70% higher in 2020 than in 2005 and could increase by a further 300-700% by 2050. the present system will not change that, and you know that, ladies and gentlemen.
i also welcome the fact that the international civil aviation organisation has put forward a plan to reduce and offset carbon.
first, corsia will only cover about one fifth of global climate/aviation emissions, because it does not apply to, among other things, domestic flights, nor to emissions other than carbon dioxide.
secondly, it is not yet clear how the emissions will be offset.
it is no coincidence that eu member states will no longer be allowed to use offsetting projects for their national climate targets from 2021. thirdly, and this is something i would like to stress, the compensation of greenhouse gas emissions is only the second best solution.
we need to get as close as possible to zero greenhouse gas emissions.
i therefore believe that technical solutions are preferable which prevent emissions at source.
to sum up my point: aviation's climate emissions are a concern for all of us.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
we want at least 40% of the initiatives to contribute to the fight against climate change.
it is, it was and it remains, a matter of great urgency that you, dear colleagues, should be involved in the implementation of this indispensable vehicle, because we must make it an instrument for a better quality of life and work, for greater sustainability and for the future of europe.
in our discussions and actions we pay particular attention to sustainable reintegration of returned persons, not only from europe, but also from the region, from where the biggest numbers of returns take place.
the current situation in rakhine state does not allow safe and sustainable returns, according to the unhcr’s assessment, and there is a huge threat that refugees may be forcibly returned.
we have to scrutinise the current political and security environment and take measures to guarantee the security of our people and our territory.
in an increasingly conflict—ridden and unstable international environment, only a combination of effective multilateralism, our soft power and our credible hard power can be capable of confronting those major security threats.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this is fragmentation, and it is a waste of the visibility and working capacity of the plenary itself.
the international atomic energy agency has now confirmed for the ninth time, less than a month ago, that iran is fully complying with the so-called nuclear deal.
we should not tire of making clear to our us counterparts – and this is exactly what a committee on foreign affairs mission to washington did last month – that, firstly, iran is in full compliance with the jcpoa, as reported repeatedly by the international atomic energy agency, and, secondly, iran’s ballistic missile tests are outside the scope of the jcpoa.
the report is clear and calls for sustainable solutions, including through a strengthened neighbourhood policy.
given that i have only one-and-a-half minutes of speaking time, i would like to focus on the situation of environmental rights defenders, which the annual report explicitly mentions.
according to the ngo ‘global witness’, on average three environmental human rights defenders were murdered each week in 2015. in 2016, there were around four murders per week and this murderous trend went on this year.
almost 40% of the environmental human rights defenders killed are indigenous people.
we are glad that lolita chavez, a committed environmental and indigenous human rights defender from guatemala, is one of the finalists for the sakharov prize this year.
environmental human rights defenders like her are under threat when they oppose the interests of corporations and governments.
now they cover not only trade and economics, but also customs cooperation, innovation and technology, competition, food safety, the environment and education.
they rely on hong kong’s efficient business environment.
it will be important to look at what has and what has not worked over the past two years and draw the necessary lessons for establishing an effective and sustainable migration policy.
this means in concrete terms: we must use the economic climate to make our economic and monetary union stronger, more efficient and more adaptable.
in an uncertain world - we all know this - our union must be able to find rational solutions with the united kingdom and then, or at the same time, be able to concentrate and focus its energy on all the initiatives and challenges we have to face together, as frans timmermans has just mentioned on behalf of the european commission.
that is why i think it was necessary to stabilise this negotiation, so that the energy, your energy and the energy of the europeans, could be devoted to this reform agenda.
we talk about climate diplomacy, but we also need sdg diplomacy, so that we don't just do this in europe, but others do this as well.
i am doing this, for example, on objective 12 of sustainable consumption and production.
the global importance and impact of supply chains, in particular textile supply chains, offers the opportunity to address and improve, among other issues, consumer protection for eu citizens, working conditions in europe, and in particular working and environmental conditions in the producing countries.
it is undisputed that transport and transport in general must become cleaner, and it is also not contradictory that we can achieve the environmental objectives on the one hand, but on the other hand also maintain and expand the industrial base with its many hundreds of thousands of jobs.
the first step in reducing emissions is to start in cities, in urban transport.
the transport sector is still 95% dependent on fossil fuels and is the only sector where greenhouse gas emissions have actually increased over the last 25 years.
if you think that only electric vehicles are zero-emission vehicles, you should ask yourself where the energy for them comes from and how they and their batteries are produced and disposed of.
i am not in favour of punishing people, because it is more effective to encourage energy and environmental measures.
i thought the commission's legislative proposals for lower emissions from cars and trucks had been on the table for weeks.
why do we not deal with this legislation today, concretely and very quickly, also in the sense of rapid environmental protection?
whether it's electric mobility or energy-efficient buildings, let's give solar, wind and water a chance to get into our homes and cars as quickly and as cheaply as possible.
in today's resolution, we call for the release of blogger and environmental activist nguyen van hoa.
his only fault was that he called for a protest against one of the biggest environmental disasters in vietnam.