i would like to begin by thanking vice-president šefčovič for all the hard work he is doing to bring the energy union to life.
the status of the energy union, which we are discussing today, shows with all the desirable clarity that action is needed.
action if the eu and europe are to assume global leadership in climate, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
and action if we are to meet the objectives of the energy union and strengthen the green transition.
because we can see from the report here today that there are indeed countries which are becoming more dependent on imported energy from outside.
and we can see from the report that the european transmission networks are not equipped to deal with this integration of renewable energy, which is absolutely crucial.
and we can see that if we put energy efficiency first, yes, we can make significant progress, not least through renovating buildings.
these are initiatives that reduce the cost of energy for european citizens, initiatives that simultaneously improve indoor climate and create healthy buildings, all while creating local jobs, for the benefit of us all.
i agree with the commissioner that we are on the right track, but i have already heard a number of political speeches and complaints today which, in the end, probably boil down to the fact that the member state in question has left its citizens in the lurch on energy policy for several years.
we must create a single energy market in europe and we must make better use of the energy we have in europe today.
there are plenty of options in the directives that are now available around energy efficiency, renewable energy, electricity market design, governance, etc.
as rapporteur for energy efficiency in buildings, i can already see that there are plenty of opportunities.
one of the problems we have to solve in this directive is to get private funds for energy renewal.
this is necessary for agriculture, for the health of citizens and for the environment.
here we welcomed ban ki-moon and we committed the eu to reduce our emissions by at least 40% by 2030. and it is now that we must deliver on the commitments we said yes to.
our aim should be to make pollution costly, it is the only way to ensure that companies have incentives to make green investments too.
it's a pity, it's bad for the climate.
nothing in this system is perfect, there are many things that could be better, but by reforming the quota trading system we are moving in that direction in favour of the climate.
we are reducing the number of allowances by 2.4%, and we are ensuring that the co2 allowances in 2021 are actually going to be in line with the actual emissions that are going to be in 2021. overall, this will mean that we will reduce emissions and also ensure that our industry becomes greener.
it is necessary if we are to deliver on our commitments under the paris agreement, it is necessary if we are to secure our climate in the future.
we have a very real task to tackle, and the pragmatic forces in europe must come together with a clear signal that we want to deliver a more sustainable industry and a better climate.
there will be a real price to pay for pollution and industry will have clear incentives to improve and innovate and will be helped to do so.
we politicians have a simple duty to always strive for better standards, for better protection of workers, the environment, the climate and public health.
together with canada, we are opening a new chapter for fair and sustainable trade.
i believe that, in terms of the legal system, in terms of consumer and environmental protection and the whole open political process that has been around this agreement, we are today faced with the best free trade agreement in the world.
mr president, a mechanism for the exchange of information is the first step towards the eu's energy union.
it is good for the further work on the energy union that we now have the opportunity to have an early check on the oil and gas contracts concluded with countries outside the eu.
it turns out that up to a third of the contracts that were concluded in the past were not in line with the decisions we want to take in the context of the energy union and the eu's internal market.
yes, it is, in fact, one of the most dangerous environmental poisons we have on the planet.
it is a substance which, even in small quantities, can cause damage to both health and the environment, and one of the most serious damage that can be found is probably when foetuses suffer damage to the nervous system with the risk that the children, when they are born, will have both slower learning and slower development.
and we also know that mercury accumulates in the food chain, and it's very, very serious for our environment.
we are talking so much about energy security as members of parliament.
the arctic shows us that climate change is here, and that it's violent.
so right now, the arctic is alerting the world that we need to take climate change very seriously.
it is also important to remember that climate change is not caused by the arctic or by the arctic countries.
but the air, water and people of the region will have to live with the consequences of climate change.
the european parliament has drawn up this report because we want to send a message to the arctic region that it is important to us, both from the point of view of security policy and from the point of view of the environment and climate, and that it is important for the planet in general.
the eu should offer the arctic countries a dialogue and close cooperation to combat and mitigate climate change and help protect the amazing nature that exists.
air pollution in the arctic comes mainly from asia, north america and europe, and water pollution is created by transport from continent to continent.
so it is our responsibility to help ensure that we reduce this pollution.
our report contains a number of proposals on how we can protect the environment and the climate.
it is important that we help, but it is also important that we do so in a way that we engage in dialogue with the countries around the arctic so that together, in a worthy cooperation, we can do something about climate change and environmental pollution.
yes, primarily because the manipulation and deception of the car manufacturers have had some very serious environmental and health consequences for the citizens.
we know that thousands of citizens have died prematurely because of the illegal nox emissions.
mr president, the diesel emissions cheating of the tram is a scandal.
much of the automotive industry has put economic considerations ahead of environmental and health concerns.
finally, we need to transit our economy, for our society to become sustainable, responding to the climate challenge, ensuring our environment and ensuring that we manage migration and our welfare state in a much better way.
i believe that the eu should use the g7 summit to recommit to the biggest economies on the plan to achieving the sustainable development goals – all of them, comprehensively.
the agreement on a new energy labelling scheme is an important step towards achieving our climate and energy goals going forward.
we know that imports today account for more than 50% of our energy consumption in europe and that this has been increasing over the last ten years.
if we are to get rid of this unpleasant situation, we must, among many other things, make our energy consumption both smarter and more energy efficient.
the agreement on the new energy labelling scheme is therefore a good step along the way and is, moreover, one of the low-hanging fruit on our entire agenda.
the next step is to ensure that, by revising the building directive, our homes and our workplaces are in line with the efforts to achieve greater energy efficiency, to achieve a more energy-efficient europe.
i also want to thank everyone, and this is of course a good day for us to discuss what has really happened, why we did not include climate certification in the agreement, so that we can show who has really done something and give credit to those people.
we need to have the flexibility, we need to recognize that we have some technology that needs to be transferred to some of the countries that could be better contributors to the fact that we can do more for the climate.
so we intend to extend the opportunity to show that we have some tried and tested technology that will help the climate in the future, and we think that is the way to go, and that is why it is good that in this way we can create a burden sharing that can benefit everyone, but also takes account of everyone.
the united states and trump will unfortunately not be in compliance with the paris climate agreement, but we will be in europe!
the climate and the people of the world desperately need us to act on the climate change we're seeing.
the committee on the environment has dared to be ambitious.
i fully support the report by the committee on the environment.
flexibility for individual member states is in principle a good thing, but it must not become so flexible that we do not get to make any new climate agreements at all.
everyone has to deliver, all sectors have to be involved, or we're not going to solve our climate challenges.
i have to say with our american counterparts in congress, it was a difficult conversation with them, but it is needed and what trump did is actually disrespectful not only to his own people, but to people all over the world and for the 194 states that are there and committed to fighting climate change.
i have to say, madam president, the platform economy has enormous potential both in terms of consumers, in terms of the use of resources, which is good for the environment, and in terms of businesses.
we need a flexible and sustainable and inclusive standardisation system, but it is also important that we involve, for example, citizens and consumers in the roll-out of standards for the digital single market.
many important topics have been mentioned already by the speakers here on climate change, on sustainable development goals, on the migration crisis and so on, and it is important that we in the european union take the lead on all these issues.
we also have the money, and we have research environments, and we have even written sustainability into our treaty.
we social democrats believe that the eu should take the lead, show solidarity, coordinate and create sustainable development in everything we do, and then also measure it.
it is a completely insane waste of the people's money and a tremendous extra pollution from a parliament which claims that we take the environment seriously.
now we must stand together as a parliament and press the council and the member states to put an end to this waste!
– madam president, it is very clear that nord stream 2 is directly against both the spirit and the objective of our energy union.
first of all, we will increase our dependence on the reliable supply of energy if the nord stream 2 is built.
secondly, we will also increase our dependence on fossil fuel in europe if nord stream 2 is built, while at the same time we are trying to make a climate and energy union in which we decarbonise our energy system.
madam president, nord stream 2 will have to pass through danish waters if it is to be built, and so far the pipeline has been treated as an environmental issue.
but that pipeline is geopolitics at the very top: it's security policy, it's environmental policy, it's climate policy and much more.
and just now, when we in the eu are creating the framework for our energy union, which we are all working on every day, the ambition is to ensure a floating internal energy market.
but the idea of the energy union was born out of a desire to make europe independent of putin's gas and the sheikhs' oil.
ms may touched on a range of extremely important issues – terrorism, climate change, the refugee and migrant crisis, global free trade, organised crime and territorial aggression – issues so challenging, so dangerous and so complex that we can only solve them together.
the un climate conference cop23 in bonn is important.
climate change is one of the most important challenges facing humanity today.
we must also say that action on climate change is not a hindrance to growth and development.
on the contrary: a green transition is indeed the key to ensuring sustainable growth and new jobs as well as a cleaner future.
they are the financial climate change that threatens to drown europe’s welfare states and fundamental fairness in our societies, and we must not and cannot allow this to go on in secret.
with europe at the forefront, they decided to take responsibility for our future generations by taking climate issues seriously and by strengthening cooperation for the green transition.
but it requires us to complete the european energy union, which will make us less dependent on gas from putin and oil from the sheiks of the middle east, and at the same time strengthen the fight against climate change.
this requires ambitious renewable energy and energy efficiency targets.
this requires a turbocharger of investment in more energy-efficient buildings and cleaner transport.
it also requires a genuine internal energy market that will save the climate and save europeans.
this requires a european energy union, where we deliver green results to citizens and which are good for the climate.
it was the heads of state or government who decided that we wanted an energy union, which i think is very, very sensible.
if it had been up to the energy ministers to create this energy union, nothing would have happened.
i believe that europe has a golden opportunity in these years to create an energy union in which we become less dependent on energy from outside - gas from putin, oil from the middle east - while at the same time creating healthier and better housing, making cost-effective renovations, putting energy efficiency on the agenda.
at the same time, through innovation and new solutions, we are making europe more competitive in the long run, and ultimately our energy-intensive companies will not have to pay such a high price for their ets allowances if we deliver, for example, in the housing sector.
that review will take place during 2018. we therefore believe in the environment committee that there is no reason to open up the possibility of adding phosphates to meat until we know the efsa's assessment.
in germany in particular there has been great concern over our vote in the committee on the environment and there have been stories of job losses and all sorts of things.
this was also a matter that we in the environment committee raised with the european commission back in 2014 with our then chair of the environment committee, matthias groote.
we in the committee on the environment take our duty to protect the citizens of europe seriously, and that is why we appeal to the precautionary principle.