the commission is also proposing that projects in urban nodes, specifically those relating to much-needed urban logistics, which avoid pollution, noise and congestion, be supported and facilitated through good practice.
the second is that we need an integrated system of mobility of people and goods, fully intermodal, with no bottlenecks between states and low emissions.
thirdly, this logistics revolution is fundamental to combating climate change, improving our global competitiveness and activating an interesting employment corridor based on knowledge and the intensive use of new technologies.
the reduction of poverty and social exclusion must be one of the pillars of the social pillar, as current growth can only be sustainable if it includes all citizens.
mr president, energy is key to the cohesion of the union.
the current political uncertainty outside europe should serve as a stimulus to strengthen our energy union project.
we must move towards energy independence for europe.
we need to provide europe with safe, affordable and environmentally friendly energy and we need to increase transparency: price transparency to avoid situations such as the spectacular increases that have taken place in my country, spain, for example, over the last week.
you have to give an answer of... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the energy union is an instrument for the energy oligopoly, which will take advantage of the liberalisation of the market to manipulate it as it pleases.
liberalisation and market power for the big oligopolies are one and the same thing, and therefore other policies, energy sovereignty, must be promoted.
in the face of current political uncertainty, we must strengthen our energy union project.
energy is a fundamental pillar of the cohesion of the states.
the second report on the state of the energy union shows that the energy transition is a fact.
i believe that improving targets is crucial to meeting our commitments, particularly in the area of renewable energy.
we must maintain the binding targets of the member states, to consolidate european leadership in renewables and move towards greater energy independence for europe.
we need to provide europe with safe, affordable and environmentally friendly energy.
it is necessary to increase transparency in energy prices in order to increase consumer confidence and avoid price rises that create social alarm, as has happened in spain in recent weeks.
this energy transition is also an opportunity for economic modernisation and for the creation of quality jobs, which also prevents citizens from being in a position of energy vulnerability.
in the face of current political uncertainty, we must strengthen our energy union project.
energy is a fundamental pillar of the cohesion of the states.
the second report on the state of the energy union shows that the energy transition is a fact.
i believe that improving targets is crucial to meeting our commitments, particularly in the area of renewable energy.
we must maintain the binding targets of the member states, to consolidate european leadership in renewables and move towards greater energy independence for europe.
we need to provide europe with safe, affordable and environmentally friendly energy.
it is necessary to increase transparency in energy prices in order to increase consumer confidence and avoid price rises that create social alarm, as has happened in spain in recent weeks.
this energy transition is also an opportunity for economic modernisation and for the creation of quality jobs, which also prevents citizens from being in a position of energy vulnerability.
with regard to the european commission's winter energy package, i would like to address some important points in the very limited space i have today: firstly, it is necessary to set more ambitious targets for renewable energy and to make these targets binding on the member states as well.
the non-application of charges on self-consumed energy should be made clear.
and finally, eliminate agrofuels and preserve land use for food production, preventing energy crops or forestation of agricultural land.
in fact, something quite unusual has happened, namely that the weight of foreign policy has been put to work with great energy, precisely to achieve the objectives that mrs mogherini described today with regard to the central mediterranean route.
the proposal on the sustainable management of the external fleets is of prime importance to reinforce the role of the european union as a key global actor in fisheries and in ocean governance.
it is also inconsistent with the basic regulation, which says that the european union must contribute to sustainable, economically viable and job-creating fisheries.
this regulation will improve the transparency, control and sustainability of the activities of the more than 700 european vessels fishing under agreements with third countries, under united nations law, through private agreements or by operating on the high seas.
i think we are putting so many obstacles in the way of the outer fleet - which is one of the fleets, i say, more sustainable and more respectful - that it seems that some people want to end it, and i think that is a tremendous mistake.
with the proposed amendment to the regulation on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets, europe has an opportunity to move away from unsustainable fishing practices.
in the future we would like to broaden its social appeal and we would like to make it more available for those people who come from social circumstances and a social environment which are not so fortunate.
mr president, two news items are coming out at the same time: on the one hand, a decision is being taken on whether the garoña plant in burgos should remain open for another 20 years; on the other hand, the construction of a nuclear waste repository at the almaraz nuclear plant in cáceres has been approved.
autonomous governments, technicians, citizens' platforms and, of course, also from this house we will continue to oppose this serious threat; a threat led by a puppet government of the electricity companies; a government that wants to continue granting benefits to the oligopoly, but is not able to create a social bond that avoids deaths from energy poverty.
mr president, last week i was in tenerife to hold a number of meetings on environmental concerns which, unfortunately, are very common on the islands.
one of the groups i met with was the canary islands platform for a sustainable territory, which is mobilizing to prevent further deterioration of the rich heritage that these islands have in their ecosystem.
the european commission itself has recognised that, despite the declaration of regional interest by the canary islands authorities, the projects must meet the protection requirements laid down by european environmental law.
i also call for the precautionary principle so that we do not have to suffer further irreparable damage to the precious natural environment of the canary islands when, as always, it is too late.
municipal gardens and suburban areas need to be freed from the pressure of chemical pesticides, which only add more pollutants to the environment where our children grow up.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do we want a cooperation policy that is in line with the united nations' agenda for sustainable development?
also, as you said, we live in crucial times for climate policies, and following the historic achievement of the paris agreement, the european union now needs to lead from the front.
the commission has put several legal proposals on the table of the co-legislator, but the revision of the emissions trading system (ets) was the first and has been debated the longest.
the heads of state and government agreed in 2014 that the ets is the european union’s flagship climate policy and it is now time to show our citizens, our businesses, our society and the world that we are serious about making the ets fit to meet our paris commitments and our 2030 climate and energy targets.
we need to learn from experience and agree on a workable system that will do three things simultaneously: deliver the required emission reductions in a cost-efficient manner; protect vulnerable sectors in european union industry; and support the clean energy transition where most needed.
this is the only way for the european union to be credible when we are discussing with china, south korea, mexico and other g20 countries about carbon pricing and carbon markets.
i see the importance of considering measures to strengthen the eu ets which can ensure the carbon market functions and delivers the necessary emission reduction and innovation incentives.
secondly, we want to continue to build on our success in preserving the competitiveness of our industry and avoid the carbon-leakage risk and parliament is enhancing in many ways the aspects of the commission proposal catering for our businesses.
the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety keeps the architecture of the commission proposal with the flat rates and further enhances the role of verified data.
last but definitely not least, we want to increase the innovative power of the european union ets as a driver for investment in low-carbon technologies, and parliament is discussing to send a clear signal on the need to boost the innovation fund for the benefit of european companies and to ensure that the modernisation fund spurs decarbonisation in lower-income member states.
mr president, the reform of the carbon market system leaves us with a bittersweet feeling.
agria, on the one hand, because from the point of view of the development committee it has not included very important points for us, such as, for example, the complete review of the system in 2018 and, above all, a specific economic allocation for the international climate fund, because we know perfectly well that the countries of the south are those that have contributed least to climate change and those that are suffering the most.
on the other hand, also something sweeter - i say only something sweeter - because the proposed reform at least proposes to abolish the free allocation of emission allowances for cement, and cleans up the so-called carbon leakage list by which companies can go outside europe to continue polluting.
madam president, commissioner, in 2003 we adopted the emissions trading directive so that emission reductions could be made in a flexible, efficient way and without exposing our industry to unfair competition from third countries.
madam president, what we are debating today and voting on this week is the key to the vault of the system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, polluting emissions.
the cde should be an ambitious instrument to meet the objectives of combating climate change; it should serve as a stimulus for industries to develop cutting-edge technologies for reducing emissions; it should serve to reinforce european leadership in the fight against global warming.
but our duty is to promote rules that ensure a level playing field for the industrial sectors concerned; our duty is to promote economic activity, employment and the competitiveness of our industry, while encouraging its innovative capacity to reduce its emissions.
madam president, i would like to bring up here today the situation of shellfishermen and shellfish farmers in the galician lagoons who see how the frequent events in the areas where they work - the death of shellfish, the pollution of the waters and the accumulation of sludge - threaten their jobs.
the sources of pollution are diverse: the pulp mill in pontevedra, the san finx mine in lousame, but also the malfunctioning of waste water treatment plants or the failure to carry out the necessary cleaning and sanitation projects.
we call on the european commission to oblige the galician and spanish authorities to take all the necessary measures to put an end to this situation and to ensure that the galician rivers are cleaned up and rationalised once and for all and that urban waste water is properly collected and treated.
because european citizens are very clear that they want european standards of consumer protection, social protection standards, environmental protection standards and even more and better regulation.
so the commission will continue to work to ensure that the programme is on track, that we reach an agreement, and that we can ensure that the greek economy is finally returning to sustainable economic growth and job creation.
the changing environment of the union, the external effects of globalisation are permanent challenges for the single market, to which it has to adapt.
in my report i have stressed the urgent need to remove barriers to the single market and to create the right environment for the growth of our economies.
all the institutions and member states of the union must act together if a sustainable recovery is to be achieved and the convergence process is to be revitalised.
the investment plan is now operational, aiming to mobilise at least eur 315 million in new investment over three years and return investment to sustainable pre-crisis levels.
i would stress in this connection that improving the investment environment means strengthening the single market by increasing regulatory predictability, strengthening the level playing field within the union and removing obstacles to investment within and outside the union.
we need to focus on raising wages, not only to make the recovery fairer, but also and fundamentally to make the recovery more sustainable over time.
a trade policy that not only removes trade barriers but also guarantees and promotes the european union's social, labour and environmental standards in the rest of the world.
there is always room for improvement, and that is our role, but with ceta, thanks to the work of many - including, of course, our group - we have made important steps in the field of transparency, sustainable development, civil society participation and the defence of our welfare state and public services.
they are also our partners in nato and we cooperate closely to tackle global challenges such as climate change.
this is the best response to other social or environmental standards which, without agreements like this, find it easier to prosper.
madam commissioner, i really appreciate you very much and i know that you also have a lot of energy, but the time has come to strike a blow at the table and be taken seriously.
i knew from the beginning that the contribution of this parliament would be a valuable support for our strategy for an open and trusted cloud-based data environment geared to the scientific community.
we are now discussing sustainable funding and implementation instruments with the member states, research infrastructures, scientific communities and other key players.
this includes a pooling of the necessary investments at all levels to create a world-class pan-european high performance computing and big data ecosystem by 2023. we want this ecosystem to be built on two exascale computers.
mr president, europe has a magnificent research and innovation ecosystem, 1.7 million researchers, 70 million science and technology professionals.
we need a virtual environment to store, share and reuse the data generated by this universe of researchers and technologists across disciplines and across borders.
as regards international standards, i thank you, commissioner, for your struggle and your energy in the icao, and we should do the same in the ilo, to achieve standards of social, environmental and technical quality at european level and to impose them on the rest of the regions at global level.
mr president, at this point we are talking about the situation in nicaragua and, in particular, we are referring to the harassment of an environmental activist in the country: the case of francisca ramírez, who, protesting against a mega-project that is going to be produced in the country who has not had the necessary environmental study, who has not had the necessary consultation in the country in a work of these characteristics , has been harassed by the government.
in the last year we have had many deaths and many attacks on human rights defenders, environmental activists, even people like the director of the international commission against impunity, who has also been the victim of attacks on his person, which i think is a very relevant resolution.
i also think it is necessary to say that, beyond the declarative, we must be able to see what the european union can do to change this climate of impunity, and there are some things that i think are important.
we are all facing serious challenges: globalisation, terrorism, migration and the refugee crisis, climate change and so on.
although arguments such as the need to ensure that member states' policies are compatible with the overall objectives of eu energy policies (such as energy efficiency and security) were raised in the debate, the commission itself acknowledges that it wants intergovernmental agreements to be 'substantially' revised to further liberalise the electricity and gas market, as set out in the third energy package and competition policy guidelines.
the commission is thus being given new formal and informal powers to deregulate international energy markets, powers which it does not claim in the context of international agreements between private multinationals in the energy sector.
i think we should be more cautious, especially at a time when the commission's external energy policy is more aggressive than ever, as we see with the attacks on russia and the dangerous alliances with countries like qatar.
but they face challenges, like sustainability, because of the aging population, the increase in chronic disease, the emergence of new technologies.
but, in addition to prices and sustainability, we have the problems of shortages, the lack of adaptation to needs due to lack of commercial interest - in aspects such as antimicrobial resistance - or the need to put incentives - as is the case with orphan drugs - problems in competition for generics to enter or lack of innovation with small modifications in many cases.
we share, and i think there is a general consensus, the need to ensure the sustainability of health systems and to guarantee access to medicines for european citizens.
the audiovisual sectors are in a very competitive environment and we must give our creators the tools they need to continue producing quality work.
it was a proposal which was not in accordance with the minamata convention or our own waste legislation.
fortunately, parliament has rectified this and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr eck, and all the alternative rapporteurs, especially mr dantin, for their attention to technical and environmental arguments.
finally, madam commissioner, i would like to invite the commission to appear before the committee on the environment to explain the fraud that has occurred, as i have said before, in recent years and to give us reliable figures and tell us what has been done and whether there have been any sanctions.
because we all win with a more just society, one that doesn't waste the talent, the effort and the competition of half the world.
this is a model of society we want to have and which we will pass on to our children and grandchildren; it is about reconciling sustainable development with the environment and, of course, fighting climate change.
however, i think we need to go deeper into ecodesign and waste prevention, because no matter how much we improve management, if the reduced level keeps increasing, we are not going to solve the problem.
it is important to respect the waste hierarchy at all times to avoid shortcuts that may favour one option over another.
the waste directive must clearly distinguish between municipal waste on the one hand and commercial and industrial waste on the other.
that is why i would like to ask for support for amendment no 251, which includes the criterion of quantity in the definition of municipal waste.
removing this word from the definition may mean opening the door, including commercial industrial waste in municipal waste.
this makes it difficult to manage this waste, which is the real objective of this regulation.
a package that will be good for the environment, for the climate, for health and for the economy.
the european union has made progress in waste management in recent decades, but today it is still very uneven between countries and municipal waste, in more than a third of cases, continues to be dumped and less than half is recycled.
the circular economy is not just the modification of four environmental directives, but a powerful tool in the fight against climate change and a change in economic and production models, for which european industry must be prepared, and we know that it has already started to adapt.
in catalonia itself, the bufalvent site in manresa is establishing business practices of cooperation in waste management that are turning it into a fully circular site.
we could find many other similar examples around the union, which give us hope that the path we are embarking on today - and for which we will necessarily need the council's firm commitment - will be a success, helping to re-industrialize europe, helping to create new jobs and consolidating much more sustainable, low-emission economic growth, in line with the commitments reached at the cop.
in the case of the opinion i was responsible for in the itre committee, the opinion on waste disposal, we would like to see the introduction of a waste management hierarchy to avoid incineration and disposal as much as possible.
however, it is worrying that the management of this process falls massively on the private sector and that incineration continues to be promoted as an alternative to landfills (even with advantages for energy input to the grid) when in some regions its environmental impact may be higher.
i would also like to stress that we have put forward proposals of great importance, such as the progressive closure of landfills, public consultation with municipalities and other stakeholders concerned, the recovery of closed landfills, the audit of existing landfills and greater control of waste.
leading to environmental and public health emergencies which we hope the new directive will help to combat.
the ultimate aim of the new european circular economy package is to promote the transition from a linear economy, where the maxim of 'use and throw away' is paramount, to a circular economy where waste is minimised and treated as a useful resource.
in this way, we will not only create value, but also influence climate change and the environment, and boost global competitiveness, sustainable economic growth and job creation.
the generation of waste is a heterogeneous reality which makes it difficult to reuse it as a quality raw material, because there is no adequate separation and classification from the source.
we therefore hope that the new legislation will guarantee the quality of the waste generated and thus the quality of the raw materials so that they can be really reused.
it is a great incoherence that this institution is pushing with great energy the 'free bar' of multinationals through the arbitration courts while stopping any attempt to hold accountable those who violate human rights for pure profit, promoting the most heartless impunity.
we need a joint effort, at european and international level, to prevent aggressive tax planning, increase transparency and create a fairer environment for businesses in the european union.
the budget is a key instrument for this: to raise more own resources, with progressive european taxes and national contributions balanced with the per capita income of each country and with a serious plan for european public investment, with social and environmental criteria and not with austerity and military deployment, as we are seeing.
issues such as unemployment, especially youth unemployment, the care of refugees, environmental protection and the fight against tax evasion must be at the top of the european agenda.
we need a sustainable europe in all areas.
sustainable economically, environmentally and also socially.
it must be a tool for solidarity, both internal and external, and a decisive factor in the fight to eradicate poverty, to achieve sustainable development and to create a knowledge society.
even if the eu budget were highly efficient, it seems difficult to use these figures to deliver results in key areas such as unemployment, climate change, research, competitiveness, migration or social cohesion.
and the cause of all this is an explosive mix: war, poverty, climate change.
as always, climate change affects the poorest; conflict affects women and children first; poverty affects everyone.
for years, the cap's objective has been to guarantee fair pay for farmers, sustainable rural development and food sovereignty for europeans.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is intolerable to schedule the death of the mining sector while at the same time encouraging the energy sector to consume coal of dubious origin.
the deterioration of our security environment, the changes in the international scene and the technological revolution make it necessary to advance the european security and defence policy, a dimension which has so far been little developed.
it includes new types of data collection needed for cfp, such as ecosystem data or aquaculture data, and promotes regional and, in turn, personalised solutions through the establishment of regional coordination groups.
for cfp reform we need data, more than ever, to measure the progressive achievement of the maximum sustainable yield as well as the effects of the landing obligation.
there was a reform in 2008 and now the community fisheries policy requires an adaptation, especially to articulate in that compilation all the supporting scientific advice, which is a substantial element in achieving a great objective of the cfp, maximum sustainable yield.
so we need proper data collection, good management of this data and its use to achieve those big objectives of the cfp that without this would not be possible to achieve the objectives of maximum sustainable yield or, for example, also all the data collection that the disposal plans are going to give us, which are going to provide very interesting new data.
we ask that the collection and management of data take account of the specificities of the fleet and that socioeconomic and environmental data become a key part of the information collected.
furthermore, zimbabwe is one of the most indebted countries in the world and it exemplifies, once again, that we need to approach debt from a human rights-based approach and its long-term sustainability, as well as fair standards that redefine lending mechanisms.
– madam president, first of all i would like to welcome this own-initiative report and particularly congratulate ms konečná and her colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi).
addressing the environmental and social challenges of deforestation and forest degradation has been, and will continue to be, a priority for the european union, and in particular for the commission.
that is the case now more than ever as part of the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development as well as for the paris agreement.
at the international level the european union has proactively engaged in the un forum on forests, in the convention on biological diversity, in the implementation of the redd+ framework, and under the un framework convention on climate change.
we are of course aware of the degree of public concern at the environmental impacts of palm oil production, such as deforestation and biodiversity loss, greenhouse gas emissions and indigenous rights issues, but we are also aware of the opportunities that it presents, for instance contributing to lifting thousands of people out of poverty in producing countries.
the commission believes also that it is essential to cooperate and to support the efforts of producer countries to minimise deforestation and other negative impacts that palm oil cultivation can have in order to achieve sustainable production of this commodity.
as long as we continue to operate as if there are no limits to the exploitation of the land, we will continue to be complicit in an unprecedented environmental and human disaster.
that is what we want with this report: that the sustainability and traceability of the supply chain be guaranteed in the import of palm oil.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the alternative rapporteurs - and in particular my colleague paul brannen - on this own-initiative report which takes account in particular of the environmental impacts of the palm oil industry, while encouraging a more sustainable production of this product.
although we are determined to limit co2 emissions, we have no qualms about importing this type of oil, which is 300% more polluting than fossil diesel fuel combustion, according to the globiom report, which was prepared for the commission.
our extreme hypocrisy makes us avoid environmental, social and ecological responsibilities just because it's the cheapest of vegetable oils.
is there really a sustainable palm tree crop?
i firmly believe that no, and it's only the lack of perspective on the problem of global warming that makes us think that this might be the case.
while we are considering introducing border adjustment tariffs on the import of construction materials and cement, i denounce that no one is proposing to introduce these tariffs to mitigate the damage that the monoculture of palm oil brings to global warming.
it is therefore essential to tackle this situation of discrimination and insecurity for women at its root if we are to maintain farms which are the fundamental economic basis for the development of a living rural environment.
public and quality services should target the rural environment, education, health, social services, transport or postal services.
madam president, i would like to congratulate and thank mrs petir and mrs lidia senra for this report, which aims to give women working in rural areas visibility, but also policies so that their contribution to the development, sustainability and innovation of this sector is recognised and supported.
in short, if we want gender equality and cohesion to be more than just principles written into the treaties, concrete public policies must be developed to ensure that the rural environment survives.
the agricultural model of the future, and also for the cap, for example, is ecological and egalitarian.
to do this, the european union has to lead this ecological and gender transition.
there is no doubt that the new regulation introduced will allow for more effective testing and monitoring of emissions, but we must admit a certain failure to require liability and compensation.
mr president, commissioner, over the past year the committee of inquiry has received technicians and experts from all over the european union to find out what has happened to the polluting emissions from vehicles.
the priority must be to preserve the environment and the health of the citizens, of course!
it is also desirable to avoid the installation of deactivation devices similar to those detected in the case of the fraud in question and to include polluting emissions in the scope of the environmental liability directive.
and as rapporteur for the future renewable energy directive, i too will be advocating greater decarbonisation in the transport sector.
but they don't realize that what really hurts the company is the shadow of doubt about its social and environmental responsibility.
we socialists are concerned about the environment.
social pressure is growing because people want to protect the environment and they also want to know what they are eating.
both the environment and the right to food go hand in hand.
the objective of this report is to phase out palm oil from biofuels by 2020. that's why we've supported it, because it's a start to start tackling the paradoxes of fighting climate change.
for two years, the european commission knew that vehicle emissions tests were being manipulated and did nothing, as if the puff was going to solve itself.
dieselgate is not only a consumer hoax but, because of pollution, it is also a very serious public health problem and a threat to climate change.
its long-term sustainability is called into question by the international monetary fund, which is pointing towards the solution of a restructuring by reducing interest rates, increasing grace periods and amortization periods.
its long-term sustainability is called into question by the international monetary fund, which is pointing towards the solution of a restructuring by reducing interest rates, increasing grace periods and amortization periods.
its long-term sustainability is questioned by the international monetary fund, which is pointing towards restructuring by reducing interest rates, increasing grace periods and repayment periods.
its long-term sustainability is called into question by the international monetary fund, which is pointing towards the solution of a restructuring by reducing interest rates, increasing grace periods and amortization periods.
moreover, it should be addressed as a unique opportunity to transform migration into a key driver of sustainable and inclusive development.
in 2015, 2016 and 2017, the european union has mobilized 17 billion euros, created the european fund for sustainable development or the trust fund for africa.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
people will continue to flee from crimes against humanity, from crushing inequalities, from the effects of climate change.
we need a policy that strengthens the union's own resources, a policy based on direct and progressive taxation, together with national contributions based on economic capacity and weighted by the per capita income of each country; a multiannual financial framework that, in terms of spending, is able to stimulate a new and ambitious plan of public investment for europe, socially ecological and job-creating, in initiatives committed to the change of model and to the energy transition.
i sincerely believe that the disappearance of roaming will play a key role, a key role for the development of the whole digital ecosystem in europe.
deterioration of the institutional political climate, especially deterioration of the situation in the national assembly, which has been subject to permanent harassment since december 2015 and, as we have seen this weekend, the subject of a disparate decision of the supreme court, then corrected also in a surprising way.
the rome declaration emphasises the need for a social europe, based on sustainable growth which promotes economic and social progress, as well as cohesion and convergence.
the social dimension is needed to create a resilient economy and sustainable growth, and to strengthen our competitiveness.
the conservation and restoration of the material cultural heritage, especially in rural and sparsely populated areas, will help to promote sustainable tourism, create jobs and prevent the deterioration and neglect of not only these historic assets, but also the towns and regions in which they are located.
they are important for issues as important to citizens and institutions as health, the environment, human and social rights, migration and refugees, innovation, financial supervision, security and protection.
i believe that the first to be concerned about the sustainability of fishing activities are the fishermen themselves.
we are talking about improving their safety and working conditions in an environment that needs more and better employment.
we are talking about operating more energy-efficient, less polluting and more modern ships, which will certainly make it easier to control their activity.
it is therefore essential to take sensible measures to develop economic activity in these neglected areas, while promoting sustainable fishing.
but we are missing something: the possibility of allowing, under very strict conditions, really strict conditions, and in line with the objective of sustainable fishing, financing for the renewal of the artisanal and traditional fishing vessels of the ors.
and this is exactly what needs to be done to protect traditional and artisanal fishing in the canary islands, to enable the commission to allocate special aid for the renewal of an obsolete fleet, to improve its conditions not only in terms of hygiene and safety but also in terms of environmental efficiency, to do without more polluting fuels and thus to give a future opportunity to a fishery which will not increase fishing capacity, much less the loss of species, but which will, on the contrary, give a future horizon to a fishery made with great dedication, made with great passion, by people of flesh and blood, making a better europe where it is needed most: in the less favoured regions, in the most remote regions, in the outermost regions.
in 2015, the european commission promised an initiative on the sustainability of the sector at global level, which it also called a 'flagship'.
this creates serious problems because they degrade the soil, reduce biodiversity, absorb large amounts of water by altering aquifers, and because they are pyrophic plants, they encourage forest fires and bring with them pests and diseases that cause the mass application of plant protection products, including glyphosate, to reduce the burden on the subforest.
moreover, their expansion not only causes the disappearance of forest masses of high environmental value, but also invades quality arable agricultural land.
in addition, investment in infrastructure, innovative projects, sustainability and, most importantly, employment should also be areas of focus for the eib.
there is a strategy called 'more food, less waste', which aims to coordinate the actions of food chain actors and public administrations to reduce food waste.
but first we need to define clearly what is meant by food waste and establish a common methodology for all countries, clear and precise, before we try to set binding targets to reduce food waste.
on the other hand, there is also a need for awareness-raising, information and education campaigns, particularly on the value of food, the consequences of food waste and ways of reducing it.
finally, i would like to point out that both prevention and waste reduction policies require the efforts of all the actors involved in the food chain in order to be more effective.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce the environmental impact of the use of these substances.
mr president, when we adopted the circular economy package, we adopted a non-binding target of 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2030, as the rapporteur mentioned, and we included a specific hierarchy for this waste.
and we will only achieve this by changing the system, by a model of production and consumption that is sustainable and coherent, linked to demand and not to the interests of the markets.
it is a positive thing, mr president, that the european parliament is discussing food waste today in plenary; it is a positive thing that a report is finally raising the need for a change of model towards a more sustainable model that speaks of waste generation, that speaks of the destruction of nature.
we must change the guidelines and this report starts by talking about the measures needed to prevent food waste, in particular the legislation of the 'good samaritan' which serves to encourage, in some way, that surplus food ends up being donated - surpluses from supermarkets, restaurants, etc.
it is all right to talk about production limitations, but these production limitations must be associated with the concept of food sovereignty, because what cannot be is that they do the same thing to us as with milk: they do not tell us in spain that we have to produce less milk so that our foreign milk market is invaded, because that does not make us more sustainable, it makes us poorer.
because 60% of the waste in our homes is avoidable, which would mean saving 565 euros a year or taking one in five vehicles off the road, and thus reducing pollution.
mr president, commissioner, today we could talk about the fact that the circular economy is not limited to recycling targets or to reducing waste that ends up in landfills; today we could talk about the fact that the food waste in the union represents a carbon footprint of close to one tonne per european citizen.
mr president, commissioner, it is not possible that on the one hand we waste 173 kilos of food per person per year and on the other hand we live with people who are malnourished because they cannot afford good food.
i would therefore like to stress, firstly, the call we are making in this report for the european commission to draw up an action plan against food waste; secondly, the specific measures for the member states to prevent food waste; and thirdly, the tax exemptions for food donations.
mr president, it is clear that we must reduce food waste at european level.
reducing food waste is a moral obligation of a developed economy such as the european union.
food waste occurs throughout the entire food production and supply chain, and all actors have a responsibility to prevent and reduce the problem, starting with agricultural production.
the relocation of large production centres contributes to increased co2 emissions due to over-mechanization, long distances from consumption centres and compulsory packaging, which increases losses when they are discarded.
local production at or near zero kilometres is the complement to the food supply chain with the lowest generation of crop waste, and the cap financial mechanisms should widely promote its advantages.
in some sectors, economic operators are looking for european ports with lower inspection and control requirements and penalties, allowing products that do not comply with european environmental and phytosanitary requirements to enter our markets and, of course, allowing counterfeit products and illicit goods to enter.
and these divergences are allowing unfair competition not only with our industry but also between european ports, by penalizing those who demand higher requirements and controls, and are causing market distortions, trade diversions and, of course, a negative environmental impact.
this is causing a huge social alarm in my country, arising from the importance of the price of energy in the shopping basket and the serious problems of energy poverty, which have caused fatal accidents in recent months.
this is a waste of enormous proportions, a fraudulent and criminal waste.
because i do not believe that fraud and aggression against the environment are part of the european project.
if we want to continue to enjoy open societies, we need: one, to impose clear, sustainable and demanding rules on globalization, while restoring the compensation mechanisms to share its benefits.
only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs, and promoting sustainable global growth.
only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
mr president, i voted against this initiative because it will not reduce food waste.
in the meantime, direct and indirect unemployment will continue to increase as small and mediumsized farming disappears, and so will poverty, social exclusion and energy waste.
overcoming the challenges it faces requires professionals and businesses to integrate technological innovations associated with autonomous, hyperconnected and low-carbon vehicles aided by public and private investments and new skills that will enrich professional performance and improve services.
we must take this package very seriously, whether we look at it from the modern perspective of the digitalisation of the sector or from the familiar perspective of social or environmental issues.
we need a strong and competitive road transport sector to meet the needs of the european market and the social and environmental requirements of the european union, which are an inexcusable requirement at this time.
we are also concerned that voluntary initiatives to promote the sustainability of the textile sector are not working, are unable to put an end to abuses.
but the terrible scenario of repression, ethnic violence and curtailed freedoms, as well as the effects of climate change, is man-made.
it will be a long road, ladies and gentlemen, and sometimes even arduous, because this package is loaded with sensitive issues, whether social, environmental or innovation.
but we must ensure that the result reflects a land transport policy that promotes fair, efficient, safe and environmentally friendly mobility, and that is also sustainable.
i think that this framework is certainly a suitable framework which must be developed later on and which places the problem, both in the internal dimension of the european union and the member states and in the external dimension, within the scope of the united nations' sustainable development objectives.
it would not be impossible, given what has just happened with president trump's decision and his commitment to break the climate change agreements.
we have seen long-running humanitarian crises and conflicts associated with climate change.
mr president, commissioner, mr representative of the council, the european union already has on its balance sheet a wide catalogue of initiatives in favour of providing resilience in various parts of the world: at the beginning of this decade reacting to food crises and, shortly afterwards, adopting a resilience action plan, targeting those countries with recurrent crises for the period 2013-2020. the council, parliament and the commission have worked together in preparing meetings, resolutions and decisions and in making commitments at various world summits: starting with the sendai summit on the prevention of risks in natural disasters; followed by the new york summit, changing the dimension and ambition of development objectives; drawing attention at the addis ababa summit to the lack of development funding; supporting at the istanbul summit a greater commitment to responding to the humanitarian crises that are plaguing the world, and finally in paris, where a great responsible president took a leap forward for the prevention of risks to humanity - because with climate change we are not only risking our world, but even whether our world will exist.
we emphasise the multisectoral nature of resilience, which of course affects the economic dimension, the environmental dimension, the social dimension, the political dimension and the security dimension, but whose centre and focus is the human being in the midst of all these very multidimensional characters.
decentralisation of the energy model, food production, the promotion of open knowledge or the advancement of democratic participation processes are crucial issues for the fulfillment of our international commitments and also indispensable elements for the construction of truly resilient societies.
granting gsp+ to the country gives a clear political signal to sri lanka that we, the european union, want to engage, to invest in its sustainable development, to support a government which has as its prime priority to re-engage with the eu and the united nations system, and to rebuild and reconcile the country after so many years of terrible civil war.
the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, un ocean goal 14 sets out to prevent and reduce marine pollution, of which fishermen are the main victims and on whom the entire responsibility for the conservation of fishery resources should not be placed.
in this context, we want to emphasize once again the need for regenerating elements in the lagoons and the halting of works which cause changes in currents and impacts on the environment.
madam president, i welcome the forthcoming united nations high level conference on sustainable development goal 14. oceans are key to addressing challenges like climate change and hunger.
other countries should also ensure better control of their fleets to increase the number of stocks exploited in a sustainable way.
sustainability of resources is therefore essential.
when we talk about the planet, we forget that three quarters of it is seas and that global warming is extremely affecting the oceans.
sea currents are the planet's thermal regulator and can change the climate abruptly.
the increase in temperature, acidification, sea level rise and the accumulation of waste and pollutants on the seabed and on the surface of the sea are irreversibly affecting our way of life, putting the livelihoods of millions of people at risk.
the lack of jurisdiction aggravates the problem of over-exploitation of resources, illegal fishing and the dumping of all kinds of waste and pollutants, and the international authorities do not have sufficient legal instruments to punish these actions.
the urgent convening of the un high level conference, focusing on the need for action at the global level to mitigate the impact of human activities on the oceans, should be a clear signal for policy makers to become aware of the serious state of the marine environment.
it could be to simulate a complete airplane, for climate modelling, for genome sequencing or for understanding the human brain.
i would like to stress that we are calling for: an explicit 5g roll-out timetable that includes a technology-neutral approach to bridge the digital divide; a forward-looking, pro-investment, pro-innovation regulatory environment to foster competition; predictable long-term solutions that can build confidence in investors; a coherent european spectrum strategy with better coordination in spectrum allocation and accelerated efforts to standardise 5g technology; and, with a view to creating more jobs - which is also what we really care about - the development and enhancement of digital skills, providing the labour market with quality.
i believe that equal access to the rural environment must be guaranteed and that measures must be taken to protect employment.
we need to develop networks of marine protected areas, reduce waste and develop effective measures for climate change adaptation and mitigation, both in oceans and coastal ecosystems.
but if you look at the mediterranean region, with 180 million people that are considered ‘water-stressed’, this water stress was brought on by changing climate patterns, but also by unsustainable resource management and demographic changes.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, i should like to begin by thanking the work of the alternative rapporteurs, as well as the rapporteur-general and the commissioner.
prima is an opportunity to deepen the construction of research and development diplomacy between the two shores of the mediterranean, which are among the most exposed to the effects of climate change and which must deepen the exchange of experience and knowledge in the development of mechanisms for the optimization of the use of such scarce resources as water and thus also guarantee food security.
we must remember that in many areas and watersheds the pressure on water resources has only increased both because of the demand of the population and the increase in irrigation areas, putting at risk some local artisanal economies as well as areas of special environmental protection.
science should serve to achieve a knowledge society serving the interest of citizens, a sustainable and inclusive society in which the scientific community and industry are means to achieve the ultimate goal of a science for and by society.
this is due to a number of factors, including overfishing, pollution and climate change.
therefore, in order to strike a balance between the sustainability of resources and socioeconomic aspects, the views and experience of fishermen must be taken into account.
innovative co-management models adapted to the specific characteristics of fisheries in each area and involving administrations, fishermen, the scientific community and other actors in the sustainable management of resources are certainly a good way to restore balance in the mediterranean.
another positive aspect of this report is the support for the need for fishing opportunities to be allocated on the basis of objective and transparent criteria, taking into account social, economic and environmental aspects, and for the allocation to be made in a way that does not discriminate against small-scale fishing and small-scale fishing, both because of the level of jobs they generate and because of their lower impact on the environment.
the socioeconomic fabric of the mediterranean is very fragile, composed mainly of artisanal and traditional fishermen who are also very respectful of the marine environment.
but we have to take into account the sectors that have the greatest sustainability and of course talk to this sector.
energy efficiency is, along with saving, one of the key measures to achieve the necessary energy transition and reduce emissions, but it also allows us to reduce our consumption and therefore also reduce our bill.
again, what's good for the environment is also good for our pockets.
and we believe this will also be good for industry, because high efficiency or environmental standards are what make our industry competitive at the top and drive innovation, which increases value added and ultimately transforms our production fabric into a less polluting, climate-friendly one.
mr president, commissioner, since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the commission has led the transition of the european economy towards a low-emission, more sustainable economy.
the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 is proof of this, with 20% of the total union budget allocated to actions to combat climate change.
and not only that, we can also make our industry more competitive, bringing it profits of 65 billion euros, according to the commission's own figures, and saving energy consumption equivalent to the annual energy consumption of italy and all the baltic countries combined.
we have therefore returned to a clarification of labelling a to g, from dark green to deep red, introduced a product registration database to ensure that the competent authorities can exercise their supervisory role and empowered citizens, through a public database containing all energy labels, to compare the differences in efficiency between household appliances.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, within the proposals of the climate change package, this concerns the effort to be made by the so-called diffuse sectors: agriculture, transport and construction, buildings, which will have to reduce their emissions by 30% compared to 2005. the commission and the council have negotiated the country-specific objectives, and parliament has respected them and refused to touch them.
we are, however, reasonably satisfied with a lulucf flexibility of 280 million tonnes of carbon.
mr. president, in the last few days trump has pulled one of the world's most polluting countries out of the paris agreement, along with china, while here we are using fake tools in the fight against climate change.
here, cañete opens the door to the energy lobbies, the most polluting on the planet.
the spanish socialists are in favour of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as the first urgent measure to mitigate the devastating effects of climate change.
we socialists want to prevent the increase in the global average temperature from exceeding 2°c above pre-industrial levels and we will defend the need for additional efforts to ensure that global warming does not exceed 1.5°c.
we support the need for global emissions to peak as soon as possible, although we are aware that this task will take longer in developing countries.
in this regard, we support contributions to the green climate fund, which is aimed at developing countries to reduce their emissions and mitigate the consequences of climate change.
they show that the european union is not at the service of agribusiness, which destroys the environment, endangers our health and perpetuates social inequalities!
we have, of course, a financial need in the area of migration; we need funding for security and defence against terrorism because, for the first time in the history of the european union, internal security depends on external security; and we have important needs to put the social pillar into action or to put climate change into action, as mr macron proposed.
and finally, climate change.
the european union as a whole is speaking out against president trump's populist and foolish decision to withdraw the united states from the cop 21 agreements, ignoring the fate of 60,000 victims of climate change each year and the 500 million people expected to be displaced over the next 30 years as a result of drought, desertification and sea level rise.
in relation to climate change and trump's decision to withdraw the united states from the agreements of cop 21, we must assume global leadership not only on environmental issues, but also on trade and social rights.
us president donald trump has demonstrated his administration's inability to engage in leadership in the fight against climate change.
the european union, which had already led the negotiations prior to the paris agreement, must grow up and take the lead in leading this transition to a low-carbon economy.
today, 20% of the union's budget is allocated to actions to combat climate change.
we are in the midst of upgrading the emissions trading market and establishing a circular economy, and we must do even more.
and we need a sustainable industrial policy with the same ambition in its three pillars: economic, job creation, social and environmental.
and in this connection - and i will end by asking you, commissioner - what measures has the commission taken or is it planning to take to protect the european economy, european industry and its jobs from the very real possibility of environmental dumping by the united states?
the united states, its administration - not the country - will not be an ally in the fight against climate change, but this is not the only threat.
i appreciate the commission's defence of the paris agreement, but good words cannot hide the lack of ambition, for example, in the clean energy package.
for example, in the field of renewable energy, by increasing ambition and making the targets binding on member states.
the european union is showing the world the way with our cutting-edge climate policy and there is no stronger statement we can make than swift progress on the ets, the effort-sharing regulation, the land-use legislation as well as on the clean energy for all european package.
when we ratified the paris agreement in record time this house showed its commitment to climate action and we need to provide the same spirit now, more than ever.
in the united states the decision to withdraw also strengthened the resolve of those who care for the future of the planet and who understand the economic opportunities of a low-carbon transition.
hundreds of united states mayors, governors, state attorneys-general, ceos and others pledged to the united nations to achieve and eventually exceed america’s commitment to the paris agreement in a declaration entitled ‘we are still in’ and they will submit a societal nationally determined contribution to the united nations, aggregating action by different stakeholders and building upon the global covenant of mayors for climate and energy.
the states of california, washington and new york founded the united states climate alliance, now joined by nine other states.
we will also step up our climate diplomacy.
climate action was a key topic of the european union-china summit on 2 june and our cooperation on the ground with china is stepping up a gear.
we will continue our work on this and on the current climate legislative proposals.
the spanish socialists are in favour of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as the first urgent measure to be taken to mitigate the devastating effects of climate change.
we socialists want to prevent the increase in the global average temperature from exceeding 2 °c above pre-industrial levels and we will advocate making additional efforts to ensure that global warming does not exceed 1.5 °c.
we also support the commitment of the eu and its member states to continue with the paris agreement, recognising the need for global emissions to peak as soon as possible and assuming that this task will take longer in developing countries.
in this regard, we support contributions to the green climate fund, which aims to help developing countries reduce their emissions and increase resilience to the consequences of climate change.
the spanish socialists are in favour of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as the first urgent measure to be taken to mitigate the devastating effects of climate change.
we socialists want to prevent the increase in the global average temperature from exceeding 2 °c above pre-industrial levels and we will advocate making additional efforts to ensure that global warming does not exceed 1.5 °c.
we also support the commitment of the eu and its member states to continue with the paris agreement, recognising the need for global emissions to peak as soon as possible and assuming that this task will take longer in developing countries.
in this regard, we support contributions to the green climate fund, which aims to help developing countries reduce their emissions and increase resilience to the consequences of climate change.
the spanish socialists are in favour of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as the first urgent measure to be taken to mitigate the devastating effects of climate change.
we socialists want to prevent the increase in the global average temperature from exceeding 2 °c above pre-industrial levels and we will advocate making additional efforts to ensure that global warming does not exceed 1.5 °c.
we also support the commitment of the eu and its member states to continue with the paris agreement, recognising the need for global emissions to peak as soon as possible and assuming that this task will take longer in developing countries.
in this regard, we support contributions to the green climate fund, which aims to help developing countries reduce their emissions and increase resilience to the consequences of climate change.
the spanish socialists are in favour of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as the first urgent measure to be taken to mitigate the devastating effects of climate change.
we socialists want to prevent the increase in the global average temperature from exceeding 2 °c above pre-industrial levels and we will advocate making additional efforts to ensure that global warming does not exceed 1.5 °c.
we also support the commitment of the eu and its member states to continue with the paris agreement, recognising the need for global emissions to peak as soon as possible and assuming that this task will take longer in developing countries.
in this regard, we support contributions to the green climate fund, which aims to help developing countries reduce their emissions and increase resilience to the consequences of climate change.
we may also be recognising that working together on global challenges like trade, climate and terrorism is preferable to going it alone.
there are challenges like immigration, security, energy, the economy, defense... it is a complex europe and a europe full of contrasts; we are faced with the challenge of the richness of diversity and the challenge of social integration.
mr president, i have to say... we were discussing here a moment ago, in this plenary of the european parliament, a europe based on values, which we miss when we see the failures on immigration, when we see the lack of unity to deal with the populist leader donald trump when he retreats from climate change with a humanitarian diplomacy that gives a humanitarian response to the crisis, but also when we fight against tax evasion and against tax fraud.
i am confident that the objectives set by the commission - ambitious objectives, no doubt - will be met and that the 500 billion euro planned for additional investment in the real economy will be mobilised by 2020. to date, all kinds of projects have been funded: energy, transport, digital, agriculture, environment, energy efficiency, r & d & i, infrastructure, etc.
that if it's energy, that if it's rural, and the children's.
and above all, linked to the environment.
our organisation advocates the nationalisation of energy and banking, but even in the current framework we need reforms to bring down industrial costs.
we need new forms of global trade, rules that protect social and environmental standards and fight against dumping.
the modernisation of industry must take on climate commitments.
today, no industrial technique can be developed that does not seek to meet the needs of citizens, such as welfare or employment, but above all industrial policy must be in tune with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the entire production process, from innovation to distribution.
the european commission's impact assessments on the development of the renewable energy generation industry and on energy efficiency improvements in the construction sector estimate, among other things, that more than 800 000 jobs will be created in both industrial sectors.
i would say to my colleague andreas schwab that we should not waste time, as he has done, with mrs parker: they are so fiercely anti-european.
in addition, this will have advantages because it will create new jobs which should be located around consumption, it will relieve the pressure on natural resources which are plundered in the countries of the south and often a source of conflict and will soon have to contribute to reducing energy consumption and also to the fight against climate change.
we also think that public administrations should lead by example and start demanding sustainability of products in public procurement and in those products they will subsidize.
i shall abstain because this report is more concerned with suggesting the possibilities of tourism than with ensuring that local communities are the ones who enjoy the additional income from new activities to make their activity sustainable.
only then will we ensure that it is based on authenticity - the key to its success - and ensure that the benefits, much more than jobs in the hospitality sector, remain in these areas so pressured by factors such as pollution, seasonality, reduced fishing quotas or the limit on the number of species they can catch.
i also think that the eu should first of all support that fisheries are environmentally and economically sustainable and should give priority to the consumption of local fishery products.
with the social key we will have a secure and protected europe, a prosperous, sustainable and strong europe in the international arena.
mr president, a courageous europe that does not hide, that is committed to the social dimension, to the rights of the working class and does not allow wages that lead to poverty; a europe of solidarity, that faces the challenge of immigration and refugees with common policies that do not bury the dignity of persons; a europe that is open, equal between men and women, sustainable, and that is enterprising and capable of meeting the challenges of globalisation.
we have to lead the fight against climate change in the face of a trump who's an arsonist.
that is why we must propose a larger budget, to which the member states contribute equitably, and serious public investment plans, because the juncker plan is like a cushion for the socialisation of losses which does not promote the energy transition, the change of model or cohesion between the different territories of the european union.
– mr president, i welcome the latest of the commission’s reflection papers with the hope that all these reflections will not only foster the debate about the future of europe, but also help us to make the right choices towards a political, social and sustainable europe.
most of us here would agree that europe will have to face big challenges in the coming years, whether the need for a more inclusive and sustainable growth, the fight against inequalities and climate change or security issues.
at the current pace, we are going to fall short on the 20% climate-related spending objective.
however, we need to deliver more on climate by significantly increasing efforts and the share of climate—related spending.
and when we talk about needs, we mean very specific things: we need a model of sustainable growth based on research, on innovation, that creates quality jobs, that is able to deal with the challenge of migration and refugees or climate change.
we stress in the text the importance of culture as a tool for diplomacy and call for it to be recognised as the fourth pillar of sustainable development and as a human right.
and that is why i welcome the efforts being made by the united nations in areas such as, firstly, the fight against terrorism, in matters of international judicial cooperation and financing; sustainable development, including the processes of implementing the 2030 agenda and the implementation of the paris agreement; and the mass displacement of people, through the follow-up of last year's high-level meeting.
and it would be very good if there were no cacophony, but rather unity of position to stand up to the populist in charge, who withdraws the united states from the climate change pact; and to demand a ruthless fight against evasion, avoidance and, of course, tax havens, to fight the globalization of exasperating inequality; but, above all, to demand a global response to the challenge of migration.
it is essential that there is no cacophony, but unity of position to speak with one voice in the face of donald trump and his desire to withdraw the united states from the pact against climate change; and to demand a relentless fight against evasion, avoidance and, of course, tax havens, that combats the globalization of exasperating inequality; but, above all, to demand a global response to the challenge of migration.
the inclusive and sustainable europe that estonia wants to promote, as the fourth objective, will be closer if the first three objectives are achieved.
these three goals may certainly facilitate a more inclusive and sustainable europe.
estonia, which is a small country and is a friend of my country, catalonia, must be guided not only by the logic of inclusion and sustainability but also by the explicit defence of human rights.
its priorities are clear: banking, energy, digitisation, business environment and yet it has missed a key part in this technological transformation that it suggests.
you are proposing continuity today, maintaining economic policy objectives in the face of social and environmental objectives, and this is not the way for european workers.
with an ambitious agenda: an open and inclusive economy, the protection of european citizens, the environment or jobs by tackling the migration crisis.
with an ambitious agenda: an open and inclusive economy, the protection of european citizens, the environment or jobs by tackling the migration crisis.
with an ambitious agenda: an open and inclusive economy, the protection of european citizens, the environment or jobs by tackling the migration crisis.
with an ambitious agenda: an open and inclusive economy, the protection of european citizens, the environment or jobs by tackling the migration crisis.
today we are debating in this house the launch of the european fund for sustainable development, a fund which, unfortunately, will not completely eradicate the causes for which these people are forced to emigrate, but which aims to invest in their countries of origin in order to achieve sustainable development, to give them the opportunity to live in their country and to have a decent life project.
the causes of migration are many and complex, but the most important are security, economic, environmental and social factors.
the objective of this fund is precisely to tackle these causes at their root, by investing in projects that contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
in this way, we have wanted to place particular emphasis on funding projects that have a real impact and that focus on creating decent jobs, that follow a strategy of sustainable and inclusive growth, and with a particular focus on the empowerment of women and youth.
as i said at the beginning, migration has multiple causes, and one of them, to which we often do not pay the attention it deserves, is migration for environmental reasons.
and in this sense, i believe that the agreements we have reached in parliament and in the council allow us to allocate more resources to the fight against climate change, to renewable energy and to energy efficiency.
i am going to be quite critical of this fund, mr president, because this european fund is called 'sustainable development', but it does not seek cooperation for development or the sustainability of development.
when people say that we have to act at home in the face of forced immigration from war, hunger or climate change, they are certainly not talking about this type of funding.
the european fund for sustainable development should be used to enable equitable development, to help local actors rather than transnational ones, and to put resources towards endogenous social and sustainable development.
but what is at stake is putting opportunities into investments that maintain official development assistance, that are consistent with climate change and the 2030 agenda, that fight tax havens and that ultimately provide less developed countries with job opportunities that avoid having to migrate or having to flee as a result of conflict.
mr president, european development policy must reflect the mandate of this house, starting with the implementation of strategies to achieve the sustainable development goals.
a development policy that focuses on the interests of people and not just our businesses requires cross-cutting approaches, that do not relegate the principles of justice, equity and environmental sustainability to mere pretty words to calm our consciences.
there are principles that must be respected to ensure consistency between the union's policies, such as the non-conditionality of aid to the externalisation and militarisation of our borders, the implementation of binding instruments in trade policy for the effective defence of human rights and environmental justice, compliance with the 0.7% target, or the promotion of fair and transparent tax systems.
mr president, commissioner, to talk about sustainable development is to promote food sovereignty, it is to promote energy sovereignty, it is to abandon industrial agriculture, it is to set binding targets for reducing the overall consumption of energy from materials.
the planet will not withstand the sustainable development proposed by the european union, proposed by the centre.
mr president, commissioner, minister, the parliament's delegation attending next week's high level political forum on sustainable development will have a lot of work to do.
there will be talk of food security, of industrialization, of emissions, of innovation, of protecting our oceans... all of these are key issues and huge challenges for the 2030 agenda, as we still have a long way to go to transform the words spoken and the objectives set out on paper into deeds that our citizens feel fulfilled.
mr president, first of all, my congratulations to mr dance on an ambitious report on sustainability.
i would like to focus on and underline the aspect of the environment and climate change as the source of new inequalities in the world.
and that is that, in order to combat it, i think it's crucial to recognize the socioeconomic value that the environment has.
i therefore want to stress and especially welcome paragraph 23, which calls for sufficient resources to finance the environment.
the many recommendations that are being made to the european union to preserve the environment need to be accompanied by sufficient financial resources.
so to decarbonize the economy, we first need to preserve and value the environment.
in short, consistency between what we do and what we say in the european union, with a view to the environment.
the european union does not waste in general, but to maintain two european parliament seats means an extra cost of 180 million euros a year and an environmental cost of 19 000 tonnes of co2: an unacceptable waste in a europe which has yet to recover from the crisis and which, moreover, is in a new phase of efficient and reformist europeanism.
strasbourg is a symbol of peace and reconciliation, we cannot allow it to become a symbol of waste.
the commission will take stock of the progress made since 2012 when the last strategy for the outermost regions – for their smart, sustainable and inclusive growth – was proposed.
we are committed to further boosting the outermost regions’ strengths and building on their extraordinary assets, their rich biodiversity and their unique position in the world.
we would like to help them to have a leading role in fields such as renewable energies and the blue economy.
these regions also have differentiating potential in terms of sustainability, biodiversity and economic development in sectors such as agriculture, fisheries, renewable energy or, why not, tourism.
we must also remember that it is the regions that will be most affected by the consequences of climate change and that attention must therefore be given to adaptation and prevention programmes.
under strict conditions, sustainable fishing need not be jeopardised.
but thirdly, because it points to the potential of the inclusion of the outermost regions, because of their connectivity, in the transeuropean networks for innovation, energy, new communications and telecommunications, which means a huge lever for the future to once and for all highlight the presence of the outermost regions as a unique condition of european regional policy.
the combination of distance and diversity has undermined the results of an effort which we acknowledge has made a great contribution and, to improve it, we stress the need to take into account in trade agreements with third countries that are primary producers, which are european producers but with more difficulties; the urgency of adapting to the ors the operation of the horizontal funds and the cohesion policy and maintaining the consideration of 'less developed regions', strengthening the agricultural posei and a fisheries posei; considering the dimension of the ors' economy when assessing economic development aid programmes which, in another context, could affect the internal market in terms of competition; and, finally, integrating the potential of the ors in the field of the blue economy and renewable energies into the catalogue of opportunities offered by these regions throughout the union.
there, and in spain, the causes of these superfires are quite clear: climate change, at the origin of drought and extreme temperatures; the monoculture of eucalyptus and pine, many benefits for the wood industry but a matchbox for our forests; urban speculation and lack of territorial planning, reinforcing the danger for local populations; and the abandonment of the mountain, where "development today" rhymes with "rural depopulation".
instead, we need something else: to rearrange the land; to prioritise investment in areas of high fire risk and greater prevention through the european agricultural fund for rural development; to mainstream climate change into fire prevention and sustainable forest management; and, above all, to rethink the common agricultural policy to turn the page from monoculture to a diverse and ecological agroforestry model, with jobs, wealth and life in the rural world.
in the villages of spain it is early morning to collect dry branches, which would be pasture for any fire; here we must continue working to curb rural depopulation, to give opportunities to those who want to return to the countryside, because the aridity that attracts the flames is combated by repopulating remote places, promoting sustainable agriculture.
the fact is that one of the most devastating fires in recent decades has occurred, and that it has affected, in particular in spain, a special environmental protection area, such as doñana, with more than 190 000 hectares of protected land belonging to the natura 2000 network.
the origin is the same: climate change and, after all, the heat wave that has devastated the iberian peninsula; climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity today and which the european union must prevent and combat, also with specific actions when these circumstances occur.
in the medium and long term, the solidarity fund should also be modified to take account of these areas of special environmental protection, such as those belonging to the natura network, and the economic criteria should be better adapted to the real wealth of the region rather than to the volume of gdp, because populated regions or large regions can really have difficulty accessing this type of funds, despite their real wealth.
in short, coherence between the european union's policies and actions in environmental policy.
the environment must be provided with sufficient resources to be able to preserve it.
and then there's the slow death of the land, which has been eroding and degrading the environment for decades, and then there's the drought.
it is going to be more and more frequent that we are faced with heat waves and increased fire risks, in the context of the climate change we are in, especially in southern europe.
secondly, to combat the serious environmental problem we are facing is also to combat the problem of the cultivation of species such as the eucalyptus, which we have already seen in portugal what it is capable of doing.
in spain, environmental reports were already warning five years ago, but it seems that the alarms are still falling on deaf ears.
forests that burn are victims of climate change, but they are, in fact, also causing climate change in their own way.
we need a much more ambitious and adapted forestry strategy which is a fire-prevention measure, a further instrument in the fight against climate change, and which prevents our forests from being pure fuel for fires which, as has already been said, increase our emissions and threaten our future.
you already mentioned about the impact of the climate change, but regardless of any criticisms i would like to remind you, and myself of course, that the european union remains the most pioneering political organisation across the world regarding climate change, and is definitely against new approaches by the new administration of the usa.
it is quite important for us to recognise this in order to show that, as europeans, we remain very committed in this very difficult political landscape about climate change.
although the priority of the fund should be humanitarian disasters and those involving human life, as in portugal, environmental damage and specially protected areas must also be considered.
although the priority of the fund should be humanitarian disasters and those involving human life, as in portugal, environmental damage and specially protected areas must also be considered.
experience shows that a well-ordered, well-managed territory, with farmers and peasants settled in the territory, taking care of the environment through food production is essential so that when there is a fire, it does not spread.
although the priority of the fund should be humanitarian disasters and those involving human life, as in portugal, environmental damage and specially protected areas must also be considered.
as regards timelines, setting up ambitious time limits had to be balanced against the international environment and the procedures set out in tax treaties.
other elements, such as the increased number of cases, fostering the capacities of tax administration, as well as business realities and the global tax environment, involving more complicated and sophisticated cases, were also considered.
i count on parliament’s full support for this important file, so that we can continue delivering our ambitious agenda for a competitive and growth-driven tax environment; full speed ahead!
first, because the ccctb will create a simpler, more stable and more attractive environment for businesses and investors inside europe.
i would like to recall that yesterday we discussed objective 14 of the 2030 agenda: conserving and using oceans, seas and marine resources sustainably for sustainable development.
mr president, i voted in favour and i wanted to speak in particular about the creation of this new european fund for sustainable development, because it will certainly tackle the problems of immigration, injustice and poverty.
there are some achievements that i would like to highlight because they seem to me particularly essential in this fund: the reference to development effectiveness, resilience, decent job creation and poverty eradication goals; the inclusion of the paris agreement and the agenda for sustainable development as the objective of this fund; or the inclusion of a clause to safeguard human and labour rights.
mr president, this is an important report on the sustainable development goals.
i would like to emphasize in my explanation that i like the way the house has developed much more than what was initially approved in the committee on the environment.
it is a response to the commission's communication on european action for sustainability and what was initially approved in this committee were fairly unfair issues with the community's agricultural policy.
i would like to stress that this community agricultural policy, in its last reform, already made great efforts to protect the environment, and that it incorporated an important aspect such as greening, which is now a major effort for all european farmers and livestock farmers.
it is not fair to say that european agriculture is not helping the environment: it is helping; it is evolving despite direct competition from products from third countries which do not do the same.
this is an important initiative to implement the european union commitments under the paris agreement and to contribute to the domestic european union 2030 greenhouse gas emissions reduction target.
the european council’s guidance from october 2014 states that the eu target is ‘an economy-wide absolute reduction from base—year emissions’, reaching ‘at least 40% domestic reduction’ and covering all of the eu’s emissions.
contribution from land use and forests in reaching the long—term climate mitigation objectives is critical because of their potential for anthropogenic removal of carbon from the atmosphere.
forests alone currently cover more than 42% of the european union land surface and have a huge potential for climate change mitigation through additional sequestration and storage of co2 and through the potential to substitute fossil-based energy and materials.
this debate and the vote this week show that the european union is serious about its international climate commitment under the paris agreement.
by doing so, parliament is also making swift progress on one of the key legislative priorities of the union: under the joint declaration of the european union’s legislative priorities for 2017, the three institutions have agreed that the 2030 climate action proposals are given priority treatment in 2017. i appreciate the hard work of the rapporteur, mr lins, on this proposal and would thank him for the excellent cooperation.
many of the key elements of what you are proposing for vote in this house are in line with the commission proposals, notably on the need to ensure the robustness of the accounting rules, in particular for forestry, and the sustainable management of forests.
this is encouraging, as – like in the commission proposals – this maintains a careful balance between the need to respond to an increasing demand of biomass availability and climate mitigation objectives.
i also note your efforts to further strengthen the environmental integrity of the framework by introducing additional safeguards.
first, the report adopted by the environment committee retains the main principles of the commission proposal on the construction of forest reference levels.
however, it modifies the reference period to a more recent one – 2000 to 2012. this period would include policies promoting increased harvesting in the benchmark and risk hiding real emissions of forest biomass.
we should instead be incentivising sustainable forest management and we are open on how to address this challenge.
however, the use of a more recent reference period risks compromising the environmental integrity of the lulucf accounting framework.
third, we must also consider this treatment of biomass emissions vis-à-vis the other legislative proposals.
emissions from combustion of biomass under the ets and the esr are zero rated.
if instead the accounting of biomass emissions is done downstream in these sectors, the administrative and technical burden would be extreme.
we see that this aspect of lulucf is positive, not only for the climate, but also for jobs and the economy.
that is why it deserved a special place in our proposal, as the only carbon pool with specific rules and a specific article.
fifth, i welcome the specific improvements enhancing environmental integrity, such as the progressive inclusion of wetlands in the accounting scope, as of 2026, and the safeguard discussed of ensuring that the union’s forest sink does not decrease, compared to the 1990 to 2009 average.
mr president, after one of the hottest summers in history, the macro-oceans and the current hurricanes, let's face it: we have to be ambitious in our fight against climate change.
according to scientists, not to exceed one and a half degrees and, at the same time, to protect the poorest people in this world means generating negative emissions, apart from the use of land and forests, which should not only be used as a compensation mechanism.
to do this, the regulation must firstly make clear that land has different purposes and that food production, especially in the southern countries, must be compatible with carbon sinks; and secondly, it must integrate land tenure rights and indigenous peoples.
finally, i would ask that the position of the environment committee be respected: any attempt to reduce emissions is to go against the paris agreement and play into trump's hands.
mr president, commissioner, since the paris agreement was adopted, you have made a number of very important proposals to us in the fight against climate change.
for example, the emissions trading directive is important, or the different sectors directive.
but the one we are dealing with is particularly important because it affects forestry and agriculture and therefore the rural environment.
i think this regulation is very important for sustainable economic activities in the rural world, and we have to support it.
mr president, i think we are all saying here that we are defending the fight against climate change and that this fight must also be from all sectors, as is also being done by the committee on regional development with regard to the role of cities and regions.
but the solution to achieving a reduction in greenhouse gases is not to juggle the numbers and forest farmland, but to change the current model of agricultural production, reduce nitrogen fertilisers, ban industrial livestock and agriculture and avoid the changes in land use that favor this unsustainable industrial model, and also to stop processing food during transport.
a real and urgent shift towards agro-ecological food production and short-distance food marketing is needed.
european forests are growing in the north but shrinking in the south, and mediterranean forests are in danger of disappearing into ashes as a result of climate change.
however, there is something common across europe, and that is the belief that active forest management brings benefits, both for the economy and for the promotion of rural life and the fight against climate change.
european forests and good soil management are responsible for sequestering more than 300m tonnes of co2, almost 10% of the eu's emissions.
land use will soon be a part of the climate policy of the union and its member states, which will have to comply with accounting rules to balance ghg emissions and removals.
however, these standards do not account for emissions from energy generated from biomass.
the energy policies of some states include the use of biomass to achieve renewable targets thanks to forests, causing two negative consequences: a) extracting biomass with more permissive levels can lose the forest co2 fixing capacity, and b) all emissions from this burning are out of the count, that is, they contribute to warming without being accounted for.
europe cannot and must not deceive itself with an energy policy which undermines the importance which its forests and its soils deserve as decisive actors in reducing carbon emissions.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
according to scientific studies, this gas has a global warming capacity eighty-six times greater than carbon dioxide, making it a truly strange way to fight climate change.
the only way to avoid risks with gas is to reduce gas consumption, and now we have a fantastic opportunity with the revision of the directives on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
all this without increasing methane emissions and without building costly infrastructure that citizens pay for out of their own pockets, as is the case with castor, which the commissioner will know very well.
the pollution starts in the netherlands and belgium and there are currently investigations open in several member states.
the pollution starts in the netherlands and belgium and there are currently investigations open in several member states.
we are ready to provide all our support to find a sustainable solution to the crisis together with our partners, starting with the latin american countries, the holy see and the united nations.
that we want to work together and we have to work together between both regions to promote inclusive governance, defend development goals, fight climate change and protect the paris agreement, fight for gender equality, impose governance, a globalization with rules and sharing its benefits.
we are partners and allies on the great global issues of our times, from climate change to sustainable development.
human rights is precisely one of the areas where we cooperate the most with our partners in the region, including in central america and the caribbean, where we are also strengthening our support to fight against climate change.
mr president, as this report points out, we must strengthen and modernise our cooperation and relations with latin america and the caribbean, and a good way to do this if not the best is to cooperate with them in achieving the sustainable development goals.
because gdp is blind to territorial inequalities, it is blind to generational inequalities, and it is blind to the specific risk of climate change.
a good way of cooperating with them is to support the latin american countries which, together with the united nations, are proposing a way of restructuring sovereign debt in a sustainable and at the same time supportive manner.
the european parliament is committed to working through eurolat to find common regional positions, support human rights defenders, strengthen the protection of indigenous communities and continue to encourage and assist latin american governments to achieve a sustainable balance between the exploitation of natural resources on the one hand and the protection of the environment and the rights of local communities on the other.
we agree: climate change, said enrique guerrero, and i would add the fight against tax havens, for fair international taxation, for an orderly democracy, for a regulated world governance.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for accepting some of our proposals on climate change, on combating violence against women - which is of particular concern to us - and on the role that mesecvi can play in all this.
and that is why the 2030 agenda for development and its objectives must be the main instruments for cooperation in all aspects of economic, social and sustainable development.
mr president, political relations between the european union and latin america in 2017 clearly needed to be seen in a new light: that of the challenges of the 21st century posed by two partners; two partners who appreciate and need each other and who share their anti and pro: anti-impunity, anti-corruption, anti-inequality, anti-exploitation and anti-repression of freedoms; and human rights, pro-modern democracy, pro-sustainable development and pro-free trade.
we need a change of direction, a 180-degree turn in foreign, economic and environmental policy to build a european project, not for the elites, but democratic and from below.
let us talk about the fight against climate change, the fight against terrorism, asylum and immigration policy.
we believe in the union that describes: convinced and coherent partners supporting this plan; all in all to protect, empower and defend people; a social, open, safe haven europe, united against terror; more industry, support for the real economy, financial and political capacity; boosting the digital single market for energy and transport, victims of the short-termism of many states; democratic values and defending the rights of all, including those of national minorities, that exist.
the energy union's commitment to benefiting the electricity companies without questioning the need to reduce energy consumption, or the environmental, landscape or health impacts of the population.
mr president, very quickly, i want to thank my colleagues for the work done to have a report that tries to strengthen, promote and give a more coherent framework to our relations with latin america, in defense of the same values: multilateralism, open societies or human rights; and for sharing an agenda, which is the agenda of the fight against climate change, gender equality or having an inclusive growth that governs globalization.
when some people talk about the need to include agriculture and therefore forest management and land use in the strategy to combat climate change, they are not talking about including it in the global emissions trading.
we are talking about the need for a change in our relationship with the environment; for a change in the global food system; for the earth to be seen again as a common good that belongs to all of us and that its care benefits all of us.
we are talking about something which is far from the subject of this report: the avoidance of measures which market and market the environment.
i voted in favour of this proposal because it sets out a binding commitment for each member state to ensure that accounted emissions from land use are offset by an equivalent removal of co2 from the atmosphere through measures in these sectors.
climate change is a transboundary and global problem that cannot be solved by national or local action alone.
the paris agreement includes a long-term objective and states that the contribution of land use, land-use change and forestry to achieving long-term climate mitigation objectives will be critical.
the european union and the member states are currently required to take account of this sector under the kyoto protocol, which imposes limitations on the european union and each of the member states to ensure that they do not generate additional emissions.
in addition, forest management plays a crucial role in the fight against climate change, as all these sectors must contribute to the overall eu emission reduction target.
when we approve and commit ourselves to fair international trade, among equals, which puts people, peoples and the environment before the interests of transnational corporations, then we will vote in favour.
mr president, commissioner, we have been with the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector for a year.
the priority must be to preserve the environment and the health of consumers, but also to establish and promote legislation on less polluting fuels and to restrict the installation of deactivation devices.
what we cannot and should not do is demonize diesel vehicles, or ban them immediately, because we have boosted their development to reduce co2 emissions and because they are a very important part of our european production.
but, yes, perhaps we should reflect on whether we have gone too far and adopted too soon an environmental legislation which has given rise to these manipulations to enforce it.
we saw this in the dieselgate inquiry committee, where it was shown that the commission knew about and allowed the manipulation of nox emissions, even at the expense of the air quality in our cities.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the implementation and monitoring of european union policies are based on high-quality, comparable statistical information on the economic, social and environmental situation in the european union and its components at national and regional level.
it is a great proposal on which my group has worked very hard, where we have made clear progress in the supervision and control of esma, in facilitating investment by retailers, in introducing environmental analyses of business projects that help us to meet the objectives of the paris agreement and, i certainly believe that we have been making the right decisions.
mr president, i believe that the best way to balance the objective of conserving fish stocks in these waters of the north sea and maintaining the activity of our fishing industry is to continue to support these multiannual plans and to align maximum sustainable yield with the parameters of the common fisheries policy.
i also hope that brexit will not diminish the effectiveness of a plan focused on protecting marine life and the marine environment, a task which is of particular interest to those who live in it.
the introduction of multiannual plans is one of the key instruments in the common fisheries policy for the sustainable management of resources.
the modernisation of the chile agreement is also a great opportunity to implement a more ambitious trade policy which is conducive to sustainable development.
and of course we demand an ambitious chapter on sustainable development with binding, enforceable provisions, subject to dispute resolution mechanisms and considering the imposition of sanctions while promoting corporate social responsibility.
we have here an opportunity to conclude an agreement of the highest calibre on all issues, including on matters reflecting shared societal values, trade and sustainable development, smes, anticorruption and as the rapporteur pointed out for the first time in an eu agreement provisions on trade and gender, where chile has done a lot of work already.
it is an agreement which we also see positively, because we are talking about ecological standards and these are the standards we consider to be superior.
i am not going to go into environmental conditions, or even social standards, but i am concerned about the possible use of substances that are not allowed in the european union.
we have all agreed on what we want in the sustainable development chapter.
madam president, a new interconnection worth €9.5 billion to import more gas, although its demand is falling; 1 200 km of undersea gas pipeline, with a rather serious environmental impact on the environment.
but today, it's more about geopolitics than energy.
the situation of enforced disappearances in the country is alarming, including those of environmental activists somphone and khantisouk, who are fighting against the multinational agricultural megaprojects in the country.
from here we want to demand the halt of the mega project of the don sahong dam, which will endanger the lives of millions of people in the region, violate their basic rights and have a serious impact on the mekong river ecosystem.
last year, the sad record of murders of environmental activists was broken, with a total of two hundred.
and this is often done by foreign fleets, always the same ones on a global level - and needless to say - with low social or no environmental considerations.
it is important to continue to make every effort to export our sustainability standards to third country fleets.
the agreed text also stresses the need to pay particular attention to traditional and artisanal fisheries and to provide incentives for eu bluefin tuna and swordfish fishermen using fishing gear and techniques to reduce environmental impact and that this be taken into account when allocating quotas at national level.
i simply hope that now, commissioner, in the month of november in marrakesh, where there is a new meeting of the iccat, that recovery will be clearly reflected in a very significant increase in quotas and, moreover, in a more equitable distribution and that account will be taken - as i said at the beginning - of small boats, craft boats and boats which are more respectful of the environment.
we will also support small-scale fleets because of their lower environmental impact and their decisive contribution to maintaining sustainable economic activity and the possibility of obtaining resources to diversify sources of income in coastal areas.
it is essential to ensure that these stocks are managed in a sustainable way, without forgetting the socioeconomic aspect and the coastal stocks that live off this catch.
when we promote international trade between equals, which puts people and the environment before the profits of transnational corporations, and when there are binding clauses in this regard, then we are doing something for civil society in developing countries.
the eu must deliver on the objectives of the 2030 sustainable development agenda to fight child marriage, cooperate with un women, unicef and unfpa and design cooperation and development policies that include the defence of children's rights.
the eu must deliver on the objectives of the 2030 sustainable development agenda to fight child marriage, cooperate with un women, unicef and unfpa and design cooperation and development policies that include the defence of children's rights.
at the same time, humanitarian crises, conflicts and environmental disasters are known to exacerbate conditions of poverty and insecurity that favour child marriage, which is also reflected in the migration crises, including the one affecting europe in recent years.
the eu must deliver on the objectives of the 2030 sustainable development agenda to fight child marriage, cooperate with un women, unicef and unfpa and design cooperation and development policies that include the defence of children's rights.
the eu must deliver on the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development to combat child marriage, cooperate with un women, unicef and unfpa and design cooperation and development policies that include the defence of the rights of children.
it is clear that cooperation in the field of energy security and efficiency and the fight against climate change, both of which are the responsibilities of commissioner arias cañete, are also very important.
we urge this parliament today to support the efforts of developing countries in the transition to low-carbon societies, so that they are more sustainable and safer.
because do we really believe that the energy transition and the trade policy of the european union, especially the fight against climate change, are compatible?
we have said it many times: unless there is a change in the model of economic growth, there is no way to mitigate the environmental deterioration of the planet.
energy transition, yes, but we also need changes in the global agro-food system.
the battle for climate is political, and it confronts two different worldviews.
at this cop23 let us hope that the worldview of women, especially farmers and indigenous women, will gain prominence, and that the vision of the energy lobbies and multinationals, who often speak through our governments, will lose all power.
mr president, commissioner, europe must take the lead in achieving the objectives we set ourselves at cop21 and, in this respect, 20% of the union's budget is now being allocated to action to combat climate change.
we are in the midst of upgrading the emissions trading market and establishing a circular economy that minimizes waste and optimizes raw materials, and we must do more.
it will be of little use to have an agreement if, in the end, it is not respected or if the main actors do not end up being involved, favouring a situation of outsourcing of european industry which ends up maintaining the same number of emissions and, therefore, there is no progress on the environmental side, and on the other hand, rebound, we have a serious negative impact on the social and economic side in europe.
i would, however, like to emphasize once again that their adoption would be a significant step forward compared to the current situation with respect to the better protection of human health and the environment.
these criteria will constitute a unique opportunity to better protect the health of citizens and the environment.
the who insisted that legislators should take measures to regulate human and environmental exposure to these substances.
is this how the commission is fulfilling its mandate to protect people, animals, the environment and its ecosystems?
this is where the commission is committed to proposing revised legislation on reporting formalities by next april, which will establish a harmonised european maritime single window environment.
(applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the migration crisis, the threat of global terrorism, the problems hampering the unity of the digital transport or energy markets are real, pressing problems which have their logical place in the next european council.
finally, this reflection should include the promotion of connected vehicles, driver aids, tele-tolls and intelligent road management, including automated information on safe parking areas with shared tools that work in the cross-border environment.
this is a mode of entrepreneurship that better fixes employment, that stimulates more the incorporation of talent into business and that generates sustainable, intelligent and inclusive growth; it brings positive values to the rest of the economic system and offers hope, the other way of conceiving and using the benefits, that of returning to capital its role as an instrument in the service of the real economy and not the other way around.
the products i am talking about are innovative agro-chemicals produced from organic materials present in by-products and waste.
those products have enormous potential to make european agriculture more efficient and sustainable and to create jobs and opportunities for innovative businesses in europe.
spreading products on farmland can pose a risk to health and the environment.
that could have dramatic impacts on the environment and on the safety of the food chain, so i urge the european parliament not to water down our proposal on this point.
finally, this proposal not only provides new opportunities for the european agro-industry, it also provides you with an opportunity to limit emissions of toxic contaminants to farmland, drinking water and food.
together, we will raise environmental standards in an area in which europeans are lagging behind the rest of the world.
a particular concern for health and the environment is cadmium in phosphate fertilisers.
there are a few marginal scientific differences, but the overall picture is clear: the european environment and people are too exposed to cadmium, and the only remaining major polluter of food in the environment is the phosphate fertilisers industry.
in addition, harmonized environmental and food safety criteria are established to promote trade in these products.
in any case, we must push this regulation to support industry to make it more sustainable and more competitive and to promote sustainable economic growth and employment.
mr president, in the field of fertilisers and in the context of the circular economy, we believe that we must work to reduce the use of chemical fertilisers, develop agro-ecology and promote a greater interrelation between livestock and agriculture, increase the use of manure and encourage composting on farms themselves, so that farmers are less and less dependent on external production factors and to avoid a greater environmental impact and contribute to the fight against climate change.
this also means lowering production costs, the consumption of fossil fuels and the risk of releasing substances harmful to the environment and to human and animal health.
this rock also has high levels of cadmium, which accumulates in the soil and water and enters the food chain, causing health and environmental problems.
only in this way can we ensure that no ce marked fertilisers are being marketed which present a risk to human, animal or plant health or the environment.
mr president, ensuring that people have access to safe drinking water means taking action against the risks and threats of water pollution.
today i would like to call the attention of the european commission to the need to open an independent inquiry into the hazardous waste being buried in the old touro mine to determine whether it is being treated correctly and thus prevent pollution of the waters of the ulla and arousa rivers.
photos like these show and raise suspicions that possibly the waste that is being buried in this old mine is not being properly treated.
we need another institutional structure to stimulate the union of the energy market, to put an end to internal social dumping or to organise the reception of refugees.
as regards investment, you are sticking to your juncker plan, financing private investments which were probably going to be made anyway, and when you decide to invest, as with the connecting europe facility, you do so in large fossil energy infrastructures, that is, more and more gas pipelines.
these budgets only serve to pollute the atmosphere, fatten the bills of the big energy companies and feed the false ghosts of immigration.
mr president, as we are approaching the final period of the current multiannual financial framework (mff), we would like to see a budget that finally gets closer to our priorities in terms of eu policies which are: full and higher-quality employment, solidarity towards poorer territories, but also to those citizens that have to endure harsher economic and social conditions across the eu, commitment towards sustainability of our planet, and tackling real sources of instability and inequalities across the world.
therefore, we basically support the deal reached in the committee on budgets, according to which we reinforce programmes such as cosme, horizon 2020, erasmus+, or the youth employment initiative, as well as climate related programmes like life +, further measures on migration and refugees, and so on.
it will also promote mobility between the schengen area and third countries in a secure environment, while contributing to the fight against terrorism and serious crime, and safeguarding fundamental rights.
this is happening everywhere, in every environment and also here in our house, in parliament.
once the action of the ecb diminishes, our economies are probably still not ready to continue in a sustainable path for growth.
furthermore, the environmental and sustainability angle is missing, as the need to increase resource efficiency and to adapt the economy to the fight against climate change is not mentioned in the report.
the superfire cocktail real social and environmental drama is well known intentional fire, rural neglect, cuts in fire prevention and extinguishing and climate change.
let us devote more resources to environmental prosecutions so that those who set fire to the forest can be identified and convicted.
we ban eucalyptus and other flammable species from the core and city environment to reduce the risk to local populations.
let's put in place a policy of landscape management through prescribed burning, sustainable logging or extensive livestock farming.
we have finally passed a climate change law in spain, which is up to the challenge of climate change.
let us be more ambitious in the european union and establish a forest fire prevention policy that prepares forests for the climate change context.
in fact, let us bet on a rural world and diverse and ecological forests with employment, wealth and life.
thousands of acres of high ecological value burned.
it is therefore urgent that governments take comprehensive measures to combat and prevent fires seriously and it is urgent that action is taken and that inaction on climate change is abandoned.
the european union must also be more belligerent in meeting the challenge of climate change, in reorienting its policies.
the solidarity fund should be reoriented to be effective in mitigating the consequences of the disaster caused by climate change.
climate change is not an excuse.
secondly, in galicia, we point to the abandonment of the countryside caused by agricultural policies as one of the main causes of the increase in fires, which is aggravated by climate change.
but apart from prosecuting all those who are committing criminal acts by setting fire to the forest in asturias, we need to improve the conditions for prevention, because climate change is a challenge to which we must respond globally, as the commissioner has said.
madam president, i want to begin by expressing my solidarity with the victims and families of this wave of fires and my deep regret for the emotional, environmental, economic and social damage that this tragedy is producing.
ladies and gentlemen, the fires are the fever of a sick territory, the result of climate change and the absence of sensible forestry management policies which do not put eucalyptus and other species in the centre and encourage monoculture.
but fighting these kinds of environmental crimes, which cause human tragedies, is a different matter altogether.
last week we witnessed with horror the more than 200 fires in spain and portugal, which burned thousands of hectares, caused incalculable ecological damage and claimed the lives of dozens of people.
the losses, both human and material and ecological, that will take decades to recover, have culprits.
the series of arson attacks in recent weeks have left a trail of human misery and intolerable environmental destruction in southern europe, particularly in spain and portugal.
the challenges of climate change and self-interested crime, which have such an impact on the environment, especially in the rural world, require that states and citizens are not left alone.
we need to move towards a common european response to environmental terrorism.
in addition, 2017 will be the warmest year on record, due to the undeniable greenhouse effect increased by our fossil fuel-dependent lifestyle.
land neglect, low environmental awareness, and the negative effects of fire as a destructive tool do the rest.
the environment is not perceived as a source of wealth, and this pedagogical task is an essential task of the administrations.
in spain, it is the responsibility of the regional authorities, with full environmental responsibilities transferred, to assume the obligation of planning, conservation and prevention with a long-term horizon.
in the committee on petitions - its chairman said this - we have seen a great many petitions on human rights, justice, the internal market and, above all, the environment and accessibility.
mr president, we appreciate the implementation of the environmental liability directive which was adopted in 2004 and then transposed a few years later.
the aim was, of course, to prevent and repair any environmental damage under the 'polluter pays' principle.
everything that is prevention and repair is, of course, key to being able to have sustainable growth and to be able to make economies work and societies be healthy.
in this respect, the directive sought to work in three areas: halting the loss of biodiversity, both in relation to protected species and habitats; the quality and quantity of water 'could somehow stop the deterioration'; and also the protection of soil.
in fact, there are many differences in the number of incidents of environmental damage triggering the application of this directive between member states.
the proposal is to extend the scope of the directive beyond 'technological and medical research' to include environmental damage which may affect human health and therefore also to cover this subject, and also to cover all matters relating to air pollution.
in short, it is a matter of complying with the 2020 strategy of having integrated but also sustainable growth, and therefore of supporting the commission in this study, in this collating of data, in this looking at exchanges to see how we can improve the application of this directive, which will, without a doubt, make our economy work and we will have a healthy society.
because the fisheries sector is always the first to have an interest in maintaining optimum environmental conditions, and the defence of posidonia is a common element of all the political groups in the committee on fisheries.
as is well known, posidonia oceanica is an endemic plant of the mediterranean, one of the most productive and resilient species in the biosphere, capable of forming underwater meadows of great ecological importance, within which many animal and plant organisms live and which provide food and protection.
today, there are doubts about the conservation of these habitats, but sometimes the fishermen are always blamed, and it is not fair that the fishing industry is accused of causing a negative impact on the environment.
there are many other factors, such as dredging practices, coastal development, eutrophication and climate change - among others - that have plunged this mediterranean lung into a serious regression process in recent years, making the slow-growing and difficult-to-regenerate posidonia one of the most endangered seaweeds at the moment.
in this regard, some member states - including spain, with six mediterranean marine reserves with grasslands of this species - have taken concrete measures to curb the impact of human actions and ensure the conservation and preservation of the marine ecosystem.
the inclusion of content on the need to protect marine habitats, with grasslands being a preferred habitat in national fisheries and biodiversity legislation.
finally, the inclusion of content on this species in the educational strategy of marine reserve networks, school campaigns and school outreach, because we cannot forget that environmental education and awareness are fundamental if we want to stop the deterioration of the posidonia oceanica and also protect coastal marine habitats.
in this connection, and in order to avoid the enormous pressure on these habitats which are essential for the conversion of carbon dioxide into oxygen, the productivity of marine resources and the protection of the coast, this house would like to know firsthand what data the commission has and what its assessment is of the investments made through its programmes.
marine habitats provide great ecological services for humanity and in this context, posidonia is an important part of maintaining that biodiversity.
the decline of this plant is caused by dredging practices, pollution, poor anchoring practices or uncontrolled anchoring linked to mass tourism, among many other reasons.
the malfunctioning, the inadequate or non-existent treatment of waste water and the pollution of rivers is something that is constantly being denounced by sectors such as shellfish and shallow-water fisheries, a situation which i have repeatedly brought to the commission's attention.
and, commissioner, the answers often reflect passivity or the lack of decisive action to reverse this situation, both in terms of the deficiencies in the water treatment systems and in terms of pollution linked to mass tourism or different infrastructures in these areas.
will you protect the posidonia and the rest of the coastal marine habitats by tackling the pollution that is destroying them?
the grasslands of posidonia oceanica are the most important mediterranean forest by extension, co2 fixation functions, great biodiversity hosting more than 400 species of mostly fishy fry or for their great oxygenation capacity.
the measures to be promoted by the commission, such as ecological foundations that reconcile recreational use with the preservation of biodiversity, should be included in the review of environmental and land use legislation in the mediterranean coastal strip.
other criteria must be taken into account, such as the processes of depopulation, ageing, dispersion, the rural environment, which are fundamental issues, because if not, we will find ourselves with european regions which are the richest in all of europe, but which have no population on which to implement the operational programmes of the structural funds.
the austerity policy has done a lot of damage to our society, but especially to the rural environment, because when we remove a teacher from a school in a city it is important, but when we remove him from the rural environment we are closing schools.
because, in the end, the consequences of depopulation are known to all of us: there are consequences from environmental to social.
let us change the production model, favour small businesses and farmers and ensure quality public services that enable rural people to settle; this will bring a better quality of life in cities and in the countryside, desirable environmental conditions and a greater distribution of wealth.
our rural environment is dying and urgent measures are needed from the european union to combat depopulation.
to support the commission in its negotiations before the next ministerial conference in buenos aires and of course also to take account of the recommendations of this parliament so that we can move forward and update the doha development agenda, ensure fair and sustainable trade in agricultural and fishery products, effectively achieve a permanent solution for the public food security reserve and face new challenges.
through the wto and free trade agreements, big corporations are trying to usurp the sovereignty of the people, undermining the ability of democratically elected governments to take legislative action that protects the rights of the people and the environment against the abuses of the multinationals.
in addition, the enp has never clarified its ambiguous relationship with eu enlargement, raised expectations about accession, which the eu is not prepared to meet, and does not address the structural problems of poverty, unemployment and sustainable growth.
we wanted to include the fight against social and environmental dumping in the european union's anti-dumping instruments, but the proposal which is to be voted on contains no binding commitments, only loose and generic criteria, and the burden of proof is lifted.
i am a staunch supporter of free trade, but to ensure that all countries reap the same benefits, it is essential that we all play by the same rules, respecting international labour, social and environmental standards, and thus avoiding any kind of dumping.
these relations should be based on mutual understanding and cooperation among equals, overcoming colonialism and patronizing behaviour, and effectively addressing the common challenges we have such as climate change, poverty and inequality and achieving the sustainable development goals, which, together with the strengthening of human rights, should be the key objectives of the european union-africa strategy.
all external action for africa must be subsidiary to this objective, and to do so we should promote fair trade; promote social and solidarity-based economies; contribute to private sector accountability by including due diligence clauses in trade agreements, thus ensuring the sustainability of value chains; not increase debt unsustainability, following unctad principles on responsible sovereign lending and borrowing; strengthen tax systems and fight tax evasion and avoidance, which are bleeding their domestic resources.
as long as human rights and the sustainable development goals are not at the centre, we will also be complicit in the increase of poverty, inequality and, ultimately, the root causes of forced migration.
one of our main challenges is to help create physical, legal and institutional security, the three necessary for development in africa to be consolidated to generate greater stability and better opportunities; in other words, and following mr ponga's report, to deepen political, economic, social, environmental and security resilience.
the excellent report by mr ponga emphasizes two major challenges, namely sustainable development and job creation, especially for women and young people.
however, this report does include references to social and environmental dumping, which is a step forward.
in the legal part of the text, wage dumping or environmental dumping disappears.
in turn, they gave unparalleled power to industry lobbies: millions of euros in profits dropped from the sky with the implementation of the failed carbon market.
what we need is a progressive industrial policy which gives future to strategic productive sectors, makes them environmentally sustainable, is social and supportive and ensures the local integration of the territories with industry.
number 8, in which he highlights the importance of achieving the 2030 sustainable development goals and the commitments of the paris agreement.
climate change is a global problem that all countries must address.
and a planet that's dying for us from deforestation, pollution of the seas and global warming.
mr president, this second part of the road mobility package is a great opportunity to define the kind of transport we want in europe, and my group will work to ensure that some of the aspects we consider essential are included in order to transform the mobility of our fellow citizens into a more efficient, smarter, more sustainable and safer mobility.
and fourth, boosting research and innovation in 100 per cent renewable energy.
and we are not just talking about the economy, jobs or pollution; we are also talking about security, the 25 000 lives we lose every year in europe that we could be saving.
the commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 40% by 2030 is a goal that is built on reality, which is sometimes stubborn.
and always considering the vehicle's lifetime environmental footprint, whether low-emission or zero-emission.
together with ms bulc and our energy union team, we are very much looking forward to working with you at such a pace that we will not only make this proposal and have a debate on it, but we will definitely adopt the whole package and make it law before the end of our mandate.
i think that if we look at the long—term vision, we would of course like to have mobility with zero emissions, where we would have zero accidents and there would be zero congestion.
therefore we propose the most realistic path, namely the curve of a 30% reduction in emissions with a benchmarking system and with very harsh penalties if this 30% reduction is not met by 2030. but we also wanted to offer the industry incentives to give them the flexibility to be technologically neutral because we can see how quickly the science and research is evolving.
i would also like to highlight the fact that we are really working here on this cross-cutting basis because by 2030 we want to have more than 70% of our electricity carbon—free.
i want to use this clean energy to power our clean cars and to give them the ability to store that energy in green batteries.
we do address co2 emissions but also noise and other emissions.
this is essential for the environment but also for territorial and social cohesion for our entire union.
the environmental implementation review is an example of how the commission can work with member states and other institutions to address the weak implementation of environmental rules and policy.
i would say to mr flanagan that 31 european court of justice judgments against ireland were on the desk of a certain minister of the environment in 2011, and that number was reduced in three years to nine because a dedicated unit was set up and human and financial resources were assigned to it.
but i also agree with mr pospíšil that, sometimes, the manner of implementation of environmental law in member states needs a lot of attention and monitoring, and i think mr flanagan was right in that regard as well.
ms grapini, again, it is a matter for member states to decide if they want to implement support packages and financial support with assistance from eu programmes, like the life programme, for example, which can offer financial assistance, if necessary, with the implementation of certain environmental law that has to be transposed and implemented by the member states on behalf of the european union.
i think it would also be useful if members of the european parliament would engage in promoting the environmental implementation review in their national constituencies, in order to get feedback.
although new legislative proposals such as a soil directive are needed to complete the european environmental acquis, there is no doubt that the current framework is a demanding standard in environmental protection.
it is unacceptable that the transposition of the water framework directive does not yet contain hydrological plans for the canary islands, nor measures that really guarantee the sustainability of the vast majority of peninsular basins.
but even on the fringes of the community's economic policies, the spanish administrations, and especially the current pp government, have shown nothing but indifference to the protection of the environment.
the commission must therefore be more firm and take action in the face of the numerous complaints of infringement of environmental legislation that are accumulating in spain.
madam president, at this sitting the european parliament will decide with this report on inequality to put the fight against inequality on its agenda and especially to place it as one of its great priorities, not only because we are challenged by the socially intolerable injustices that are being experienced and are sweeping across the continent, but because we recognise that the best way to promote inclusive growth, sustainable growth and strong growth in the european union is to combat inequality.
i say inequality because it challenges us socially, morally, ethically; inequality because we have learned that it works, that it acts as a dissolver of trust between citizens, and between citizens and the european institutions; inequality because, as we have learned, fighting inequality is conducive to sustainable, lasting growth; and inequality because fighting it is the best way to recognize and combat the anxieties, uncertainties and fears that run through the hearts of europe, and is the best way to regain its trust in these institutions.
on the one hand, the environment for business creation must be improved and labour policies promoted to encourage integration and permanence in the labour market.
we need to combine active and passive policies to achieve lasting results rather than measures that indiscriminately increase public spending, threatening the sustainability of the welfare system
member of the commission.
i would like to conclude, commissioner, madam president, by saying that in countries like mine it is very difficult to explain why high-quality products have to go to waste.
a country with one of the highest human development index rankings, there are many things from new zealand to praise, for instance the functioning of its institutions of government, the way minorities are nowadays respected and promoted, its relevant commitment to sustainable development and to peacekeeping operations, and its valuable efforts in the fight against climate change, with more than 80% of its electricity coming from renewable energy sources.
when it comes to negotiations for a new free trade agreement, our position is much less enthusiastic, first and foremost because we favour a multilateral trade agenda and multilateral negotiations to regulate world trade, where respect for human rights, the environment and social rights prevail.
secondly, we want clear limits for negotiations, especially with regard to agriculturally-sensitive issues, animal welfare, a phasing out of extensive agricultural production methods, or the possibility of sustainable development chapters.
terrorism is fought with sustainable development, with integration and social cohesion, with redistribution of wealth, not with militarisation.
nobody emigrates for pleasure and the militarization of that border control is not the solution, but to invest all means in sustainable development on an equal footing, to attack the financing of terrorism, to clearly point out the culprits, such as the saudis and wahhabism, to act with regional actors to stabilize and combat terrorism.
many mining permits were granted by the former transitional government in non-transparent procedures, without consulting the local population and without considering environmental impacts.
environmental crimes are rarely prosecuted.
it is a different story for environmental activists who oppose the plundering of their country and who regularly find themselves in prison or in front of judges, such as clovis razafimalala.
the un special rapporteur on human rights and the environment, john knox, cites a problem of judicial corruption to explain such events.
it is very important that this review should result in a text guaranteeing basic principles such as the mandatory use of impact studies, the prior consultation of the inhabitants affected by mining activities, the possibilities of appeal and the granting of permits subject to the strict limitation of the transformation of the site during mining activities, the restoration of the site after these activities and the compensation of environmental impacts.
madam president, since 2009 we have seen in madagascar an increase in the extractivist economy of mining, forestry and agri-food resources by multinationals that has been directly coupled with an alarming persecution of journalists, environmentalists and human rights defenders, who denounce the corruption of the government and this economic model that preys on environmental rights and resources.
we are sacrificing the commitment to a new, sustainable and renewable energy and production model in favour of more investment in fossil fuel infrastructure.
to measure up, it would be good if we looked, read beyond the numbers and saw the real social and environmental needs and acted accordingly.
madam president, the report on the state of the energy union comes at a time when a new directive on renewable energy is being negotiated.
obliging states to produce a minimum of renewable energy has been essential for the current directive to work.
we are also concerned that the committee on industry, research and energy is endorsing targets for renewable energy in transport, which in practice means an increase in the use of biofuels.
we must be careful: such general objectives will contribute to deforestation and food prices, putting the objectives of sustainable development at global level at risk.
once again we see how green capitalism wants to link the expansion of renewables to its own particular interests, the liberalisation of the energy market; and this, of course, is not the way.
i am sorry, mrs lópez bermejo, that you make the statement that it is green capitalism that has led me, as rapporteur for the renewable energy directive, to set a target for the decarbonisation of transport.
it is true that biofuels must meet sustainability criteria.
what i have said - and i repeat it - is that the big energy companies in spain and in europe are taking advantage of the use and abuse of certain conditions to launch renewables for their own interests only.
we do not talk about energy poverty; we set criteria which are truly alarming; we make it easier for none of the objectives to be met.
while some companies are committed to the paris agreement and want to close their plants, the minister of energy is preparing a law to prevent it.
the european commission says that you cannot give state aid to companies and thus meet european environmental standards, but the spanish government is still looking to the 19th century.
commissioner, do you think that avoiding the closure of coal-fired plants is consistent with the paris agreement and the clean energy package?
does the commission consider that this proposal respects the current european energy market?
i am counting on you and the european commission to write a future without coal, that is, in favour of health and the climate.
mr president, mr cañete, i will allow you to say that it is like dr jekyll and mr hyde, because in the commission's communication on the state of the energy union it shows us two faces.
on the one hand, it tells us that the european union is the global driver of the clean energy transition and that ambition is needed to combat climate change.
every euro spent on projects that destroy the environment instead of promoting renewable energy is a euro you throw away.
if this is your plan, mr cañete, for the sake of the environment you should not be in the european commission but in robert louis stevenson's novel.
mr president, the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of the economy, for our environmental objectives, for the transition to a decarbonised economy.
but there will be no real energy union if we do not guarantee the necessary interconnections that end energy islands, such as the iberian peninsula.
i am going to ask you to join us in making the music that sounded good in paris a reality, by making european legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency that is in line with those paris commitments.
we took an important step yesterday with a broad agreement in the committee on industry to aim higher, to bring the european parliament and europe in line with those commitments: more renewable energy, more penetration of renewables in transport, in heating, in cooling, more empowerment of the citizen, better regulation of the right to self-consumption, and avoiding retroactive situations like some we have known.
mr president, commissioner, the title of this debate is 'the state of the energy union in 2017'.
first of all, it must be acknowledged that the commission - and you in particular - have done an extraordinary job in making this energy union crystallize during this term.
the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy.
the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts.
we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly.
they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy.
the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy.
the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts.
we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly.
they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy.
the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy.
the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts.
we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly.
they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy.
the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy.
the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts.
we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly.
they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy.
the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy.
the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts.
we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly.
they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy.
the publication of the state of the energy union report, the result of the vote on the renewable energy and energy efficiency directives, and the vague agreement at cop23 confirm that the interests of citizens and the decisions of politicians are moving in opposite directions.
the large number of gas infrastructures, which the commission and its list of pcis consider necessary, and the lack of binding targets for the development of renewable energy are proof that politicians look more at the economic interest of companies than the real needs of those who vote for them.
although the scientific community warns of the urgent need to reduce emissions, the european institutions are encouraging the use of natural gas, which is 80 times more harmful to global warming than co2.
without binding targets, the commission has no means of compelling states to meet their commitments, and the climate agreement is left without guarantees.
the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy.
the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts.
we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly.
they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy.
the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy.
the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts.
we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly.
they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy.
mr van nistelrooij, i want to tell you again that, under the current programming period, greece has eur 1.3 billion which have not been spent and are available for climate change adaptation and risk prevention measures so we should have plans and projects to spend this money.
eu assistance under capacity building in support of security and development (cbsd) will be a vital part of our collective efforts to ensure peace, stability, human security and sustainable development in our partner countries.
cbsd respects the spirit and the objectives of the united nation 2030 agenda for sustainable development, in particular its goal 16 on just, peaceful and inclusive societies.
we, the european union, want to put all our tools at the service of sustainable development.
this is the european way to development, and i strongly believe that with cbsd we have set up a new tool to promote sustainable development and human security worldwide, while pursuing a fully integrated approach to security sector reform.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
do you think that, assuming that perspective, we would be here discussing whether the problems of accessibility should also be solved in the built environment?
the proposal on the sustainable management of the external fleets is crucial to reinforce the role of the european union as a key global actor in fisheries, ocean governance and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
the commission is very happy that the council and parliament have agreed on a compromise text based on the commission proposal regarding the sustainable management of external fishing fleets.
the european union also takes the lead in ensuring sustainable fishing at a global level and is strengthening its capacity to tackle illegal fishing worldwide.
in particular, scientific evidence should be given showing that the fishing activities are sustainable.
i therefore trust that together we will manage to improve fisheries governance for a more sustainable future and a better livelihood.
the text takes account of the three dimensions of fisheries: environmental, economic and social.
mr president i would like to ask for a favourable vote on this report because it is crucial for improving the sustainability and transparency of the activities of the european union fleet outside our waters.
we are thus helping to improve the sustainability and reputation of the european union in this area and to promote community values worldwide against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
i think the word we could all agree with in this regulation on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets is 'balance'.
it was very meaningful and very important to me that environmental sustainability was taken into account, but also socioeconomic sustainability.
and so, that environmental sustainability we have to go along with also the attention to those people who live off of this.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the size and scope of the bank guarantee has been reduced and it has finally been recognised that european road infrastructure also deserves investment, particularly in electric cars, gas and lng trucks and buses, and that it needs to be matched by alternative energy infrastructure which needs to be maintained.
and so, with new specific criteria, we will put more emphasis on job creation, the fight against climate change, new technologies or sustainable transport and, finally, the budgetary part.
efsi also contributes to the cop21 objectives, to keep sustainable development and environment objectives in mind.
more value to those who can mitigate the fight against climate change and less power to big corporations and agribusiness.
we have invested in the un agenda for sustainable development.
we have invested in resilience, for example with our eastern partners, working on our youth, on the fight against corruption, on energy sector reform, and on strategic communications.
we have become an indispensable partner for peace and reconciliation for a more effective multilateralism, for sustainable development.
this should make us proud and it should make us more aware of our potential and give us the energy, the determination and the hope that we will need to continue strengthening the european union as a global player.
the most serious problems we face have no borders: climate change.
we are in times of rapid change, of uncertainty and of serious threats such as terrorism and climate change.
it has already been said in this debate that, according to the international atomic energy agency, iran is complying with the terms of the agreement.
this is just one little story and is one example out of thousands of good stories about voluntary and sustainable returns.
it is humane, sustainable and with the right international standards in cooperation with the unhcr and the iom.
we are the only possible path to manage migration in a more humane and sustainable way and, finally, we are not alone.
an inclusive political transition, along with the stabilisation and economic consolidation of libya, remains a key prerequisite for addressing migration—related challenges in libya in a sustainable way.
so once again, we insist that europe needs to clearly define, for its own survival, a sustainable migration policy.
the political will to prioritise sustainable development objectives is urgently needed.
so it is inconsistent to sign the sustainable development goals while we continue to fail to develop, for example, binding legislation on such deadly value chains as textiles, or if we continue to obstruct the process at the united nations to create a binding treaty on business and human rights.
in short, the consequences of climate change are devastating and require more concerted and stronger action.
but it's not just climate change, it's also earthquakes or health threats like ebola or zika.
and, focusing specifically on the commission's proposal, i would like to stress, of course, the specific area of climate change and four aspects.
coherence: consistency between all the eu's political and financial instruments and especially on climate change.
we would need a specific body for climate change, able to deal with this great challenge in a 'coordinated' way.
we need to change it and also introduce the environment as a criterion for repair.
and we have had the commission on the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector.
we must also be taken into account in the reform of the european citizens' initiative and we also demand that the commission once and for all enforce the precautionary principle, particularly in environmental matters and also in health.
because we continue to see in the committee how in many countries, including my own, in spain, projects are being torn apart and environmental impact studies are being torn apart, as well as access to information and citizen participation are being violated, as in the famous aarhus convention.
i would also remind you that without this precautionary principle, other essential principles such as legal certainty or subsidiarity cannot be guaranteed, not to mention irreparable environmental damage.
mr president, i have no doubt that the intention to reduce emissions in transport is sincere and shared by the majority of this house, but this is an unsustainable road map if we make the green transition dependent on the objective of reducing costs and increasing profits for private companies.
it is environmentally unsustainable, according to the logic of the market, far from ecological sustainability, as we are seeing with the devastating expansion of biofuels or with the disproportionate growth of activities such as aviation.
we must break with the strategy outlined in the white paper and reconcile social transition and ecological transition in the transport policies of the european union.
the current biofuel policy, even if limited to 7% use, will increase ghg emissions in the transport sector.
if greenhouse gas emissions from indirect land use change are taken into account, biodiesel emissions are on average 80% higher than fossil diesel.
although bioethanol has some reductions, it does not meet the minimum requirements required by the renewable energy directive.
using land to grow raw materials for fuels is very energy-inefficient.
it should be added that, in the absence of sustainability criteria, the use of palm oil for biodiesel in europe has increased by 600%.
mr president, in the european union the transport sector accounts for a third of energy consumption and a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions.
it is also one of the sectors that has seen the greatest increase in emissions since 1990. therefore, moving towards a sustainable mobility model is a fundamental task.
with those who use the fight against climate change to wash their image.