mr president, three energy packages later we are still trying to achieve one important objective: make the energy single market work for businesses, for consumers and for our environmental goals.
it shows one thing quite clearly: that protecting national energy production and sticking to rigid centralised systems is not the right answer.
therefore, one key objective for all of us in building the energy union should be to bring the european energy market up to speed with the 21st century by bringing technology and utilities together.
but let us take smart meters, for instance, where, eight years after the third energy package, some countries are still discussing whether the deployment of smart meters is relevant or not.
in the meantime, some countries are already talking about advanced smart meters that provide real-time data instead of near real-time data, enabling real-time data flows and data-sharing within the energy markets, with this being absolutely essential to build competitive and innovative energy markets for tomorrow.
therefore, we should discuss whether smart meters should be made mandatory so that all consumers have real-time data and real-time control over their energy consumption.
– we must not ignore the wider geopolitical repercussions of our policies in the energy union.
the current political climate should push us towards decreasing our energy dependence on russia, instead of further solidifying our ties with this unreliable partner by investing in new infrastructure projects, which would become stranded assets once we truly pursue our goal of becoming energy independent.
the eu and canada must strengthen and hold their alliance in this changing, unstable environment.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
this attitude proves once again that russia is not a good partner for the european union, both in the energy sector and in other areas.
it is the gue that could be in favour of this, because mr krasnodębski has done a very thorough job, which is taking us one step closer to a real european energy union, and the eu as an energy union may one day be much more important than the eu as a european union.
i had the great privilege of working with mr krasnodębski and this experience tells me that the background of a scientist in the european parliament on energy issues is very important.
it should promote innovative financing and distribution models that are not based on territoriality but on eu-wide access, and it should help to create an environment for european online platforms to start up and scale up, because if the idea of our current model is the best one for european creativity, why then do so many movies not even make it into cinemas?
about two million people, one-third of them children, have no access to clean water or medical services and they are facing environmental disaster.
the circular economy aims to avoid waste and keep materials in circulation for as long as possible.
this approach promotes the eu's economy and competitiveness and helps protect the environment.
the eu must therefore set new targets and update directives covering both waste and landfills.
new limits for the disposal of municipal and packaging waste are introduced, which are binding on all member states, some of which are granted temporary derogations.
estonia is also covered by the municipal waste exemption.
in the future, we could get to the point where waste is not a problem, but a resource.
here the us criticism is in place, and there is absolutely no time to waste.
the climate change effects and growing competition for access to the arctic natural resources and increasing economic activities have brought opportunities but also risks to the region.
there are three paragraphs in this report that were introduced during the committee on foreign affairs/committee on the environment, public health and food safety joint committee votes that have caused concern in the arctic member states.
these paragraphs talk about the ban on the oil and gas extraction in the arctic that has an important energy security dimension for the european union.
secondly, it is important for the energy security of the eu.
gas accounts for about 25% of europe’s primary energy demand.
madam president, the arctic area is not only a common environmental or economic programme.
i would just like to mention that the eu has outlined energy security as one of the cornerstones of the energy union strategy and as a key political priority, and this means less dependency on non-european countries and sources and also diversifying our own energy sources here in europe.
finally, i would like to conclude my statement by saying that we have worked long and hard with the co-rapporteur sirpa pietikäinen on this paper to take into account both the concrete environmental and security aspects.
however, hopefully the report will give an impetus for a real eu-arctic strategy that takes into account the realities on the ground, with a sustainable, environmental and conflict-free future in mind.
they are interested in democracy, but in the e-environment.
i encourage the commission to come forward with solid legislative proposal, including a solution for sustainable funding.
we must focus on three main things: the legal environment in the united states; the capacities which the united states partners invest in the full functioning of privacy shield; the way privacy shield is used and respected by the certified companies; and the way privacy shield is used by the citizens themselves, because, as you know, an important part of the privacy shield mechanism is offering new ways of redress for eu citizens.
we take good note that the osce considers that the elections were competitive, but that they took place in an environment characterised by widespread public mistrust in the institutions and the political establishment.
we share your view that political will is necessary to ensure its full, tangible and sustainable implementation.
the country continues to suffer from a very divisive political environment, polarisation and the lack of a culture of compromise, with backsliding in important areas such as the functioning of the judiciary, which should be allowed to work independently.
this is a long, complex process so there is no time to waste.
investing in resilient, trustworthy and sustainable e-solutions may seem costly at first, yet the long-term benefits in administrative, financial and communication terms will prove to be worth the initial costs.
third, no effective conflict resolution or sustainable peace is possible without full accountability.
the internal political climate and frustration of a great part of the population in the democratic procedure is deeply alarming.
– although president trump’s decision to withdraw the united states from the cop 21 climate agreement baffled european countries and other signatories of the agreement, i believe that in the future, when we look back, we can thank president trump, whose actions have pushed europe and the rest of the world more together, in order to take climate change much more seriously and to actually take concrete steps to enforce agreements.
climate change is a global challenge, and we need to tackle it, even if we are met with resistance.
secondly, i keep my eyes wide open on climate action, and we have still not managed to meet the requirements of the european court of auditors report, in that we still do not spend enough on climate-change deterrence action, and the situation is becoming more and more serious.
they include an open and innovative european economy, an inclusive and sustainable europe, a safe and secure europe and, of course, a digital europe with the free movement of data.
for companies to succeed, the business environment must be transparent, simple and free of red tape.
equally, a smarter, cleaner and more cost-effective energy system with an enhanced role for the consumer is an important part of a competitive european economy, and one that we will aim for.
our next priority is an inclusive and sustainable europe.
of course, a strong economy must be based on the core european values of inclusivity and sustainability.
we want to ensure that every european citizen can continue to enjoy a europe that is beautiful, sustainable, free, prosperous and safe.
in response, we need to adapt our social security systems and respond to changes in the economic environment.
equally, we owe it to our future generations and we owe it to our planet to fulfil our commitment to the paris agreement and ensure that sustainability is a key feature of all european policies.
the same is true in relation to energy solidarity.
the solidarity clause, which is triggered automatically whenever one of the member states is affected by a very serious cut in gas supply, is a crucial step towards completing the energy union.
lastly, increased transparency in the gas sector is advantageous for the energy security of the eu as a whole.
this aspect sets out that all gas contracts crucial for european energy security and that exceed a certain threshold of energy consumption need to be notified.
but i would like to say that it is not business as usual: in fact, hesitations and ambiguity about this project are going to undermine the very foundations of this union – solidarity, energy independence and diversification.
– when it comes to nordstream 2, germany unfortunately places the short-term interests of its industry above those of its eu partners, above the eu’s energy union, and in the long run above the interests of its own citizens.
i should not need to reiterate the examples which demonstrate that russia is not a reliable partner and doesn’t hesitate to wield energy as a weapon.
yet at the same time germany is busy undermining all these efforts put into the energy union by increasing its dependence on russian gas.
we cannot waste a day anymore.
the commission's annual report on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment and the environment, published in the official journal of the european communities, is the first of a series of reports which will be published in the form of a report on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment and the environment.
this partly reflects the global trend in rising environmental consciousness on the one hand, and a drive for increased efficiency on the other.
of course, one can argue that the budget is still not green enough, and i hope that next year the commission will come up with a better proposal, but in that context, i would like to underline the great help and understanding given by the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (alde) group and in particular by mr deprez and ms jäätteenmäki to improve their understanding in the budget to address the climate change policies.
– madam president, progress has been made on the energy union but there is still a lot to do to call the european union also the energy union.
many member states, including my own, still do not take interconnections into account in their capacity assessment nor energy security.
regional cooperation, looking at the capacity across borders, is crucial to improve the efficiency of our energy systems.
the current escalation is undermining the prospects of a political settlement, which is the only sustainable solution.
the agreement promotes a better regulatory environment for economic operators in areas such as trade in services, the establishment and operation of companies, capital movements, raw materials, government procurement and intellectual property rights.
we appreciate kazakhstan’s commitment to promote the green economy with ambitious targets for economic diversification and investments in energy efficiency.
the enhanced partnership reflects this progress in our energy cooperation, as this is the first time that we have concluded a chapter on raw materials and energy in a non—preferential agreement with an oil-producing country with rules going beyond wto and energy charter treaty commitments.
on other aspects of our mutual relations with kazakhstan, we broaden our political dialogues on trade, customs, energy, transport, environment and climate change.
the eu will continue to press for more open markets, both in the wto and in our bilateral agreements, to spur economic growth and trade, as well as democratisation and sustainable development in central asia.
we are alarmed by the high level of violence and the number of civilian casualties – and, frankly, reconciliation and sustainable peace are the absolute priority for afghanistan and also for us as the european union – but a peace process can only be successful if it is led and owned by the afghans themselves.
we will not stop working to create the right environment towards a negotiated settlement, including through the work of the recently appointed eu special envoy for afghanistan.
second, there can be no sustainable development when human rights and fundamental freedoms are not respected.
to this end, we have already mobilised almost eur 200 million to ensure the returnees’ reintegration into society, and we will continue to work in the framework of the joint way forward (jwf), a common political engagement for managing migration in a sustainable way, based on solidarity and dialogue.
– mr president, the eu and its member states have cooperated with afghanistan since 2001 in a joint effort to counter the terrorist surge and create the conditions for stability and sustainable development.
only an all—inclusive afghan-led peace and reconciliation process will be a viable way towards a sustainable resolution of the conflict, and i would draw attention to the need to include disarmament and the reintegration of former insurgents as part of that.