mr president, i very much welcome mr šefčovič’s work on this energy union, and it is one of the challenges we are facing in the union.
it is encouraging that the growth of the eu economy is starting to decouple from co2 emissions, so economic growth is possible without increasing emissions.
it is clear from the state of the union speech that we heard, and which we saw in the papers, that more investment is needed, especially in electric transmission lines across the borders, to really create the reaches because with better functioning reaches we have better functioning energy markets.
despite all the efforts we have made in the eu and the member states, renewable energy sources still constitute only 16.4% of the eu’s final energy consumption.
from these figures, i also think that we have to see that the eu cannot rule out any sort of renewable energy sources, not even biomass, but we have to guarantee they are sustainably produced.
energy efficiency in homes also very much improves people’s quality of life.
the state of the energy union report released today shows that the eu is on track to meet its 2020 energy and climate targets.
emissions have been reduced by 22% and the share of renewables is now 16%, with both targets set at 20% by 2020. so, we're in the right career.
the trend also shows that economic growth and environmental responsibility are not mutually exclusive.
at the same time as eu emissions have fallen by 22%, gdp has increased by 50%.
sustainable growth is possible.
in terms of the value of production, we produce less emissions than our competitors.
however, there is still a lot of scope for improving energy efficiency and developing cleaner technologies.
better transport planning, digitalisation, electrification and advanced biofuels will enable us to cut transport emissions considerably in the coming years.
the european energy market needs more transparency, market conditions and healthy competition.
this is also necessary to improve energy security and energy efficiency.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the sporting environment.
the emissions trading system (ets) is the principal instrument for lowering emissions in the sectors that it covers.
the ets has continuously been enhanced to tackle the changing environmental and economic realities.
parliament must set a clear path towards successful negotiations with the council whilst maintaining the balanced approach between industrial competitiveness and climate goals.
i welcome, commissioner, your suggestion on broad consultation on how to embed sustainable development in a legally binding way in the treaties.
a participatory debate should be launched on new employment models and the sustainability of our tax and social security systems based on an adequate level of income, including the possible introduction of a universal basic income.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to ask commissioner bulc about the use of biofuels, and specifically about the use of second generation biofuels, in particular waste and star-based biofuels.
the use of biofuels to reduce aviation emissions is regularly welcomed, but the price is often three times higher than that of traditional fossil fuel.
for the alde group mr president, the mercury regulation now being negotiated will lead to a significant reduction in mercury emissions and use in europe.
a total ban on amalgam would have very positive environmental and health effects in europe and in non-european countries where mercury is mined.
we have already established, through exposure in the environment and in the food chain, that mercury can cause foetal malformations and severe symptoms, even death, even in adults, as was sadly demonstrated in the case of minamata, japan.
the proposal has as an important objective the protection of human health and the environment from mercury emissions into air, water and soil.
the regulation covers the entire life cycle of mercury from mining to waste management and also covers the use of mercury comprehensively.
it should be noted that mercury is also released into the environment as a result of the use of fossil fuels, in particular coal combustion.
this expedition into the world of waste has been very interesting in many ways.
today we are far more advanced in recycling our waste than we were perhaps just a year ago.
i've been to a small factory that makes waste containers.
the technological solution allows the waste to be sorted, resulting in a 98% purity of the resulting waste.
so we can, by following the examples we already see, create a much cleaner waste stream.
mr president, the circular economy is a great opportunity for us in europe, but it would also make it possible to respond to global environmental challenges, even quite quickly, if we paid more attention to the smooth circulation of materials.
with regard to the amendment of the renewable energy directive which is about to be introduced, i would also like to point out that although we in parliament treat matters separately for good reason, in practice they are linked together.
it is therefore good to understand that, for example, the more efficient use of materials through different cycles always requires energy.
a sustainable circular economy cannot therefore be achieved without renewable, clean energy.
the second important point is that there should first be a requirement for a separate collection and then for the sorting of communal waste before incineration, because at the moment incineration is actually part of the problem, rather than part of the solution.
there are two specific issues: food waste must include the whole food production chain to really achieve prevention.
this is a matter of both economic and environmental importance when we are dealing with this circular economy package.
the circular economy package we are discussing today is a significant step towards a more environmentally and economically sustainable europe.
each of us produces waste, and so waste matters come close to each of us.
the report covers a wide range of biowaste, but i would like to draw attention to one form of biowaste, namely food waste.
the adopted waste directive now includes a target to reduce food waste.
it is a pity that my concrete proposal for amendment did not make it into the final directive, but it is a model available to countries which now have to reduce food waste in accordance with the directive.
i see the duty to distribute as an important part of reducing food waste and bio-waste, and as a way to raise the value of food and help people.
there is a clear opportunity to involve all eu citizens more as a community in climate change issues.
mr president, our global food systems are currently facing a very serious crisis in terms of food safety, health, traceability and also sustainability.
firstly, article 20 (1) gives us the opportunity to let those member states who are really concerned about tax evasion go their own way, to create sustainable patterns of behaviour for member states.
secondly, i would like to mention the climate targets.
my group welcomes the fact that the report takes account of the commitments made in the paris agreement and that the eu is committed to 20% climate finance.
secondly, just as in security policy, the changes and challenges in the arctic are a challenge for the whole of the eu, and we have a special obligation and responsibility to take account of the specific features of the arctic in our own climate policy and in our use of our natural resources.
we know that the arctic is a particularly vulnerable area, where the effects are multiple, both in terms of time and scale: much longer-term, often more irreversible, such as deforestation or the pollution of fish stocks, and they are reflected in a number of different ecosystems and life possibilities.
if we undermine the sustainable use of resources in this vulnerable region, we will not only destroy the unique arctic region, but we will also, in turn, fundamentally accelerate climate change, destroy and threaten access to clean water, and the impact on global fish stocks will be permanent and dramatic.
this eleventh moment for the european union is particularly important because, sadly, paradoxically, it is precisely because of climate change that the race for natural resources in the north and the arctic is intensifying.
the clear message of this report is therefore that the eu must have a strong responsibility and a strong role in the arctic council as an actor, in order to make peaceful cooperation, based on the principle of research cooperation and peaceful cooperation, the main principle and to put into practice an assessment of the environmental impact of the arctic, which takes into account both the multiple times, the more easily generated permanent damage and also these multiple multiple times effects, when it comes to major projects for the use of natural resources, such as the mining industry or the energy industry.
it also stresses support for sustainable investments, in particular those based on clean technology, better use of information technology and sustainable investments.
as if climate change were not a matter for us all, as if it were not important that the european union should do everything possible to ensure that the arctic council and other international forums gradually achieve a total ban on the very dangerous drilling for oil in the arctic.
why are we at the same time subjecting ourselves to a much worse-made russian energy and to dependence on russian energy?
one based on sustainable development, but at the same time realistic and taking into account and respecting the member states of the region.
there are more people living there than in many small eu member states combined, so while we are talking about the environment, we must also take into account the possibilities for these people to live, to earn a living and also to move around.
this is due to climate change, which is taking place in these polar regions.
climate change has far-reaching effects on people, the environment and the livelihoods of the region.
the whole of the environment, human life and the use of resources must be in balance.
the report also stresses the need to ensure that the arctic is not left to the detriment of the environment, and that the use of resources must take account of the vulnerability of the arctic environment, which this report has sought to take into account as far as possible, as well as the conditions for human life in general.
we are committed to doing everything we can to bring climate change under control and to make the effects of climate change more visible in the arctic and more globally.
the future of the arctic must be approached from the perspective of the environment and the rights of the indigenous peoples of the region.
we have a duty to the people of the region and to the environment, and i hope that we in europe will have the courage to act as mediators, to seek common solutions, to be able to negotiate and to remember that the peaceful path is ultimately the best option for all, including the future of the arctic.
many colleagues have spoken very well about the alarming pace of climate change in the arctic and believe me, a lot is at stake.
mr president, if the commission and national parliaments had acted actively as required by the legislation, the emissions fraud would not have been possible.
it is now known that what the automobile industry won by lobbying is paid for by people who get sick from the effects of air pollution.
more people die from transport emissions than from road accidents, and yet there is a silence on the human and economic aspects of the problem.
the most frightening idea, after all the research and studies, is that no one can currently make a reliable estimate of the real emissions from transport.
although the european commission is currently developing tests to measure real-world emissions at the time of driving, the challenge of combating climate change remains acute.
the creation and maintenance of jobs in rural areas is vital to maintaining a vibrant rural environment.
migration can and must be curbed by eradicating poverty and promoting economically, socially and environmentally sustainable development.
i want to thank shadow rapporteurs representing all parliamentary political groups, the committee on industry, research and energy, all of you my colleagues, the commission and the council for supporting this achievement.
i am sure that this is the only way that responsible companies can gain the competitive advantage they deserve, because there is a huge amount of activity in this sector that does not respect human rights and labour standards and that pollutes the environment.
chemicals in clothes are released into the water system when they are washed, which puts a strain on the environment.
be aware of the effects of lighter-colored clothing and clothing that is easier to wash. environmental and health issues are particularly important.
it is good that the investment bank has financed projects to combat climate change.
it could have been more active in this area, but it is good that in the coming years the investment bank has set itself the target of 35% of climate finance by 2020. the second point i would like to make is that, up to now, the bulk of the eib's financing has been directed towards transport investments.
i also support increased investment in energy efficiency, renewable energy projects and the circular economy.
these have a great potential to improve the eu's competitiveness and these projects also contribute to the fight against climate change.
we have to aim to provide the eib with the best solutions to achieve its policy objectives, to accelerate innovation and economic recovery and to promote employment, social, economic and environmental sustainability.
there is much that can be done about food waste, but to do that we need to define things in a mutually agreed way from the very beginning, so that member states and stakeholders can measure it more precisely and develop ways of reducing the amount of waste and using the rest in other ways, for example by donating edible food to those in need.
in the eu, most food waste occurs in households.
the food that ends up in the food basket is a burden on the economy and the environment.
food waste raises the total cost of the entire food value chain.
the climate impact of food waste is also responsible for around a quarter of the eu's annual co2 emissions.
consumers need help to reduce food waste.
of course, reducing food waste requires much more than a change in attitude.
commit to smart, cost-effective solutions to reduce waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, reducing food waste is not just about avoiding the carbon dioxide emissions estimated at some 170 million tonnes or wasting resources, but also about how we can feed the entire growing world population in the future.
we should in no way support any kind of forced returns to a situation which climate change is worsening, and where famine is threatening people’s lives – the commissioner mentioned internally displaced people – and so we also need, as europeans, to take our responsibility for resettlement of some of the people living in the camp.
madam president, in the current political climate and situation, the eu must take the lead on international ocean governance.
then there is the issue of micro—plastics, chemicalisation, dumping of waste, use of resources – like deep—sea mining, which was mentioned – and oil drilling.
we know that digitalisation has brought new innovations and business opportunities - and it also offers companies the opportunity to become more energy efficient.
and it is clear that we need a lot of investment now in high-speed networks all over europe and we need to ensure that europe has a regulatory environment that encourages companies to invest in europe and in high-speed connections in europe.
i hope we will always remember that we are not reducing emissions for the eu or for the administration, but for the future of humanity and our planet.
the role of urban areas and member states in combating both co2 and other health-related emissions is crucial.
urban transport accounts for 23% of the co2 emissions of european transport, but unfortunately the eu has no direct competence in urban transport policy and solutions.
i hope that the commission will do everything it can to promote the spread of good practice and to promote good cooperation between member states so that we can direct funding for all projects specifically towards reducing emissions.
we have a lot of political imbalances, we have a lot of environmental imbalances and we have a lot of economic imbalances, and they all act together.
the question about these three files – effort-sharing, emissions trading, and land use, land-use change and forestry – is in the same way a triangle and a very difficult one.
it could turn out to be a bermuda triangle in which money, hope and environment are those things, or it could show itself to be a functional but very precarious triangle where all the three parts are deeply interconnected.
if we are not able to keep up the emissions trading part of it, then things will fall down under effort-sharing and ultimately in the sinks in the forests.
we had a very broad agreement with the shadow rapporteurs and the various groups that we must create a fair competition and a fair, supportive market environment for the whole of europe.
the most important thing is to be able to create a more level playing field across europe, fair competition and transparency and an innovation-friendly environment that encourages ideas.
the creation of an economically sustainable basis requires macro-financial assistance.
i must remind the house about the rather recent understanding of the role of moldovan banks, and even of moldovan judges, in some of the biggest money-laundering scandals in our environment.
climate change, infectious diseases and poverty are all part of the same problem.
it creates new jobs, conserves natural resources, reduces waste and, in particular, creates jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises.
the shelf life of products is important for the environment as well as for consumers.
it is environmentally unsustainable for the amount of electronic waste to increase while natural resources are consumed to produce new products.
i am also concerned that in reality, unrepairable electronic waste is being exported to developing countries under the pretext that it can still be repaired.
such waste exports cause significant environmental problems in the recipient countries and endanger many health gases by polluting the air and groundwater through toxic chemicals that leach into the ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest threats of our time are not military but are those caused by our own actions, such as climate change, hunger, lack of drinking water, infectious diseases, poverty and inequality.
climate change and fighting it is something that together we can be more and alone we can be very little.
the eu budget should not finance a carbon economy that accelerates climate change.
the paris agreement on climate change is a good example of this, and it would not have been possible without the european union's hard work in international fora.
for the alde group mr president, the only sustainable solution to curbing uncontrolled immigration in the long term is to improve living conditions and create jobs in the countries of origin of immigration.
this is why the eu is now setting up a sustainable development fund, one of the main objectives of which is to improve living conditions and generate sustainable growth in the eu's neighbourhood, and in particular in the countries of origin and transit of immigration - i.e.
i am particularly pleased that parliament has been able to set the target for this new regulation of 28% of investment in areas that promote action to combat climate change.
these actions are important for the stability of europe and the world, and by preventing climate change from developing, we are tackling the root causes of migration and emigration.
one, referred to by mr lange, chair of the committee on international trade, is that sustainable development, including labour protection, is an essential part of eu trade agreements.
i think it is important that we are able to find a global, common solution to the problem of co2 emissions from aviation.
however, the negotiations of the international civil aviation organisation (icao) on the details of the corsia global emissions compensation scheme are the ones that have the potential to lead to the best possible outcome for the climate, for humanity and for aviation.
this has also been the case in the environmental debate.
we seem to forget that there is a really big entity at stake, one part of which is emissions trading, the other part is burden sharing, with finland's burden being a moderately large one, 39%, and the third leg of this entity is lulucf.
before this, we also discussed how we can reduce the co2 emissions of aircraft in the future.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, from the perspective of future generations, we are making big decisions on climate policy.
i could only think of my home country, but the risks of climate refugees force me to look beyond that.
the challenge for me is the whole thing and how to manage whether or not to balance the carbon balance of the earth in the short and long term.
sustainable forestry for carbon-bound solutions or solutions that increase total emissions?
i would have liked to have had a debate on the obligation to deforest, on the increase of total biodiversity both in the eu and in the world, a wider analysis of which fossil fuel economy is being replaced, which produces more emissions and which less.
we simply need to be able to create a credible climate programme for europe in cooperation.
mr president, the forestry laws of the eu and the different member states ensure that europe's forests are managed sustainably, with respect for the very important biodiversity.
this is why european timber has been growing for a long time and will continue to do so in the future, cooling the climate.
we can replace many climate-damaging fossil products, such as concrete, oil and fuels, with renewable wood products.
the commission and the environment committee's proposals on carbon leaching from forests would encourage a freeze on the use of wood at the level of the past, which is not sensible.
such a calculation would, for example, make the carbon content of finland an emission in the climate calculations.
mr president, we must tackle three challenges at the same time: curbing climate emissions, reforming the economy and industry and replacing fossil raw materials with renewable biomass, including sustainable forestry.
the whole thing leads to better climate change mitigation.
we added carbon sinks to our own category of wood products.
these store carbon and can continue to replace fossil materials.
looking at europe and the creation of carbon pools, but not on the basis of inequality between member states.
mr president, from a climate standpoint, a decline in carbon dioxide is the same as a decline in emissions.
the best and easiest way to capture carbon dioxide from the atmosphere is to grow carbon sinks, or forests.
i read it myself, that all forest growth would be chopped down, and the carbon footprint of the forest would be allowed to decline until 2049. we don't have time for this.
the implementation of the paris agreement on climate change is urgent and land and forest management have a key role to play.
you can't solve climate change by hiding emissions.
the report by the committee on the environment does not limit the number of trees.
the increase of carbon stocks and more sustainable use of wood.
it is not sustainable to seek further logging to increase the surplus of forest-based bioenergy.
a sensible circular economy is to get more from less and sustainable, long-lasting wooden buildings, new innovations, replacing plastic with wood.
mr president, forests play an important role in combating climate change, and this is particularly well known in my home country of finland, which is by far the most forested country in europe.
forests also play a very important role in our national economy, and that means that it is in the interest of all of us to take care of them in a sustainable way.
this commission proposal has caused a great deal of concern and even anger in forestry countries, because the proposal for a calculation mechanism and in particular for reference years places member states in a very unequal position with each other and even punishes those member states which have taken care of their own forests in a sustainable way.
it should also be possible to increase forest use in areas where it can be done in a sustainable manner and in a way that maintains the forest as a carbon sink.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr linz, for his excellent work in seeking a good compromise, and i suggest that everyone should give their full support to the rapporteur's amendment, which also allows for the development of sustainable forestry.
mr president, sustainable forest management and responsible forest management are the best climate policies.
forestry policy is not an administrative problem, but a responsible management of forests in such a way that they can be used, but also enjoyed and fulfilled in nature, in accordance with the conditions of climate policy.
we all in this room want to stop climate change.
but i cannot understand how some people in this house, particularly in the environment committee, can turn a blind eye to the facts.
if the environment committee's wishes are granted, the member states with the most forests in europe, which are particularly concerned with their carbon stocks and the prevention of climate change, will be punished.
at the same time, however, we must remember that we need above all private investment to accelerate europe's development towards a digital union, and it is important that we create a market-based environment that encourages businesses to invest in connectivity.
the report now before us is an important part of the changing and increasingly integrated energy policy of the eu.
the report also contains excellent ways of improving energy security.
the use of district heating can be used in a wide variety of energy sources and its expansion elsewhere in europe would reduce the risk of a single fuel.
the same is true for decentralized renewable production.
the report lists as preventive measures, in addition to interconnections between countries, energy efficiency, virtual gas reserves, storage and liquefied natural gas terminals.
safety must be seen as part of other energy issues under discussion.
the energy efficiency directive for buildings, which the rapporteur and i are revising, is intended to speed up energy efficiency renovations.
but we know that in relations with russia it is not only energy we are looking at; unfortunately, the country is using multi-targeted politics towards the european union.
we have to remain coherent, but not to forget that energy is one of a vital part.
talking about climate change, talking about coal in the arctic, on the ice, we need russia on board to prevent really fast, rapid climate change that the black coal is causing in the arctic, and that is why we need to find a broad political understanding.
– i am very happy to work in this parliament in the itre committee, because we clearly understand that the european union working together can improve the energy supply and energy security.
the energy mix is decided in every member state.
the european union can only improve the security of energy, and there we have a concrete result now on the table, with many more to come.
in view of the low level of commitment of the eu countries and the commission to combating tax evasion, i would hope that all the energy that is being put into setting up new agencies, offices and funds would be channelled into the fight against tax evasion.
i would hope that we would finally get out of that port together, at least into the water, so that transport policy can really improve air quality and reduce emissions.
the eu market is about five times smaller than the transatlantic market and is furthermore fragmented into national markets, which also limits the growth of funds operating here and their ability to focus their own expertise on areas such as technology, environmental or medicine.
dialogue and cooperation are of common interest in many areas, from cybersecurity to combating climate change.
it goes without saying that the conditions for the operation of small, medium and large enterprises must be equal in the internal market, whether it be in the field of taxation, public procurement or environmental standards.
we are investing in sustainable growth, tackling youth unemployment and in the ability of smes to create new jobs.
i am pleased that we are in favour of the call for increased eu climate finance.
in addition, as regards the possible sanctions under the sustainable development clauses, i personally would also consider that a pragmatic approach is the right approach.
it is therefore important that the european parliament and the european union ensure that we have a fair competitive environment and sufficient transparency and openness and that a dominant position is not used, for example, by imposing unfair contractual terms.
for the alde group mr president, the idea behind the environmental liability directive is simple: the polluter pays.
the damage caused by the damage and the restoration of the environment must be borne by the person who caused the damage.
unfortunately, the implementation of environmental responsibility varies greatly between member states.
the lack of implementation undermines the well-being of the areas affected by environmental damage, and also the well-being of the people.
it is not unusual that it is in the outermost regions and the economically weakest regions that environmental damage can also be poorly managed.
if the culprit is not held accountable or if the state is not obliged by its own legislation to finance remedial measures from its own coffers, the people, the soil, the water bodies, the animal species and the environment of the entire contaminated area pay the biggest price.
the report we are voting on today calls for a clarification of the interpretation of the definition of environmental responsibility.
the specific weakness of the directive is its loose definition of significant environmental damage.
we also demand that the commission re-examine the directive and impose requirements for environmental damage insurance and a financial guarantee for the risky operator.
finally, the commission must seriously consider whether to include confidential measures that undermine air quality, such as the recent particulate matter scandal, in the scope of this directive, which is the most important issue affecting the environment and human health.
– mr president, the environmental liability directive is a ground—breaking one and it is a vitally important tool to defend european nature and its citizens and future generations.
also, the directive is too limited in its strict liability regime as it can only be applied to a set type of environmental damage as listed in its annex.
that annex (annex 3) covers water, land and biodiversity damages only.
responsibility and liability cannot be outsourced, especially because damage to the environment and human health affects citizens and society at large, and not just the individuals concerned.
in this vein, i strongly support the proposal by the rapporteur to consider introducing legislation to assist operators and insurance companies to make use of insurance schemes in cases of environmental damage – also by way of examining the option of making financial security mandatory for operators affected by this directive.
achieving sustainable solutions requires that everyone plays by the same agreed rules.
let me also point out that the eu has a lot to do in terms of increasing the transparency of the wto’s processes and introducing the sustainable development goals to its work.
it is important for africa's sustainable future, as is the promotion of entrepreneurship and sustainable investment in energy and transport projects.
the reality is that nothing happens in climate action on transport unless the targets are strong enough and in place.
unfortunately, the emissions scandal has shown us in the transport sector how ruthlessly loopholes in legislation have been exploited for decades.
in the case of public transport, it is vital that we take action so that we can combine transport modes and their versatility, because climate change is not going to wait, we have to act together.
the eu can be a 'trendsetter' in the fight against climate change, but it needs to act as a guiding force.
we know that transport is actually the only sector where emissions have only increased.
the volume of traffic is constantly increasing, so that now we need really effective measures to stop the growth of emissions.
we must strive to have more efficient vehicles with lower emissions, to find more environmentally friendly fuels and to design the whole transport system more efficiently, and there are many opportunities in this area for us to benefit from digitalisation.
and the car manufacturers themselves can apply for the best technology to achieve that reduction in emissions.
however, at the same time it is important to remember that it takes time for the fleet to regenerate and therefore the fastest way to achieve rapid emission reductions now is to increase the use of advanced renewable biofuels, as they can be used in the existing fleet.
i am rather disappointed that the commission, in its own renewable energy directive, set a really low target for renewable biofuels, these transport fuels, and there is a debate in parliament now about whether that target should be raised.
it can be done in a sustainable way, and it's the fastest way to reduce emissions now.
written declarations (rule 162)
the following debate is scheduled: sirpa pietikäinen, simona bonafén, mark demesmaeker, gerben-jan gerbrandy, luke ming flanagan and benedek jávor, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the question to be put to the council for an oral answer on the evaluation of the implementation of environmental legislation (o-000065/2017 - b8-0606/2017 and sirpa pietikäinen, simona bonafén, mark demesmaeker, gerben-jan gerbrandy, luke ming flanagan and benedek jávor, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the question to be answered orally to the commission on the evaluation of the implementation of environmental legislation (o-000066/2017 - b8-0607/2017).
we're also making progress on increasing climate finance.
however, it is regrettable that we are still not meeting our commitment to the paris agreement to contribute 20% of the budget to climate finance.
the vote will be held tomorrow, thursday 30 november 2017. written declarations (rule 162)
the commission has adopted a communication on the state of the energy union in 2017 (2017/2856 ((rsp)).
the stability of financial markets and the sustainability of the recovery continue to be threatened by unregulated credit and systemically important banks.
cooperation will strengthen trade, energy and sustainable development issues, and enhance cooperation in foreign and security policy, such as counter-proliferation and counter-terrorism.
if complementarity is not achieved, it is a waste of esif funds.
– mr president, in the sustainable development goals there are two sides – firstly to decide how the european union is acting towards third countries and the rest of the world to get the goals right, and there, indeed, i think we need quite a lot more and better coherence.
then, on the other side, when we look inside – and i thank commissioner thyssen for mentioning this – when you are getting closer to the goals or you have progress that actually does not mean that you have achieved the goal or that the progress would be anything else than just nominal as we can see in biodiversity or in the state of oceans when we refer to life below the waters for example, and other such matters, with the climate effect actions that are being dictated here in europe very heavily at the moment.
what i would hope is that we could have in the future this sort of sustainability or end goal so we could really measure how close or far we actually are from the sustainable achievement or target itself.
for instance, in our house we don’t have a mechanism, to my knowledge, to make sure that our efforts for the implementation of the sustainable development goals are concerted and coordinated.
we should use the mechanisms that we have been able to put in place for policy coherence for development and expand them to all sustainable development goals.
finally, the high-level expert group on sustainable finance is just about to publish its proposals.
we will have to see how we will improve our investment policies so that they are truly sustainable.