it is time to put the package together for sustainable growth and bring about the fiscal and social harmonisation and political governance we have been waiting for for a long time in the euro area.
we will have to be firm because a europe according to the map is not a sustainable solution.
a europe capable of producing sustainable growth and social progress, a europe capable of taking care of its own defence, a europe capable of providing the right answers to the world's challenges: migration, development, climate, terrorism.
we can see that, even in my country, france, a tax on financial transactions was introduced and brought in €1 billion in 2015. so do you not think that we need this new resource also to finance the union budget, just as we need it to finance the ecological transition and our external actions?
this is one of the conditions for taking action against speculation and redirecting the money thus collected towards the common good, social and environmental progress.
this new humanitarian crisis linked to the migration explosion has prompted calls for a new emergency plan to support the host states, notably bulgaria, greece and serbia, thus highlighting the difficulty for the european union to ensure sustainable funding for the reception of migrants.
but this policy which brings people together must also have an environmental dimension.
too many sectors are now seriously affected by pollution and therefore by health problems caused by the high level of carbon emissions from our transport.
the alpine valleys around mont blanc have recently experienced almost 50 days of air quality pollution, not just from transport but also from transport.
it should also be noted that bananas are included in the european list of so-called "sensitive" agricultural products and that they meet high standards of sustainability in social, environmental and health matters, standards that are not applied in the latin american production chain.
it also contains a chapter on sustainable development.
it is a tool that will guarantee the stability of the banana market and the long—term sustainability of this sector, which is so important for many europeans, especially in our outermost regions.
through external fishing authorisations, we set the framework for the sustainability of our fishing activities worldwide.
it is through the good behaviour of our fisheries that we will succeed in maintaining our image as a world leader in sustainability in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, known as iuu.
in the fight for the sustainability of our oceans, our example alone will not be enough to change practices, trade agreements are the achilles' heels.
i hope that the relations between dg mare and dg trade can be intensified, so that the european commission adopts a coherent approach to promoting sustainable fisheries worldwide.
i also believe that it is urgent to ensure the social, economic and ecological sustainability of these major events, so that their immediate economic interest does not override the viability of the territories.
he said it, those are the words he used, and i want to use them again because they justify both the report and the work that we all did together, the "emotional environment" and the "child's well-being".
based on sound scientific analysis, let us use products that best meet our health, environmental and economic needs.
the work carried out will enable the european parliament to enter into negotiations with the council and the commission so that the new european consensus on development contributes to the achievement of the sustainable development goals, the sdgs, adopted in new york in september 2015. i had proposed many amendments which were incorporated in the report and i am pleased about that.
i also think of the importance of focusing our attention on global challenges, such as migration, security and environmental issues, and in particular the issue of access to water management, or the need to take into account the cultural dimension in our cooperation actions.
mr president, we reject the reform of greenhouse gas emission allowances, both for legal reasons and in principle.
in principle, these new emission constraints will encourage unbridled competition from low-cost states, which are often unscrupulous in environmental matters.
mr president, in this debate the socialist group was the only one to defend the alliance of three ambitions: climate, industry and social.
a climate ambition first.
changes in greenhouse gas emissions have mainly come from the economic crisis and national energy transition choices independent of the ets.
everyone agrees that the current price of a tonne of co2 is very insufficient to encourage low-carbon investments by industrialists and electricians.
but i think it's time to move to an alternative method of protecting carbon flows.
the carbon border adjustment for some sectors such as cement will be decisive.
it is perfectly legitimate for the european union, in a spirit of solidarity, to finance a specific component for the economically less advantaged countries, but it is equally legitimate for these sums to be invested in energy projects in accordance with our common road map.
madam president, the paris agreement on climate change has had the great merit of paving the way for international awareness of climate change, and i hope that this will last.
so we have to reduce our carbon footprint, otherwise the consequences could be very serious.
the emission allowance market plays a fundamental role in this respect, as it will encourage the most polluting industries to constantly innovate and to think about ways of having growth rooted in our territories and respectful of our environment.
pollution elsewhere is not an option.
that is why we need to have a real industrial strategy, while also having an active climate diplomacy.
the eyes are on europe, a europe that has remained without skills and resources, a europe that is powerless to face the challenges of globalisation, terrorism, climate change, migration, tax havens, growth and employment.
we must implement it in the same way as we must move away from the logic of the dictatorship of a budgetary pact and move, as the verhofstadt report proposes, towards a code of convergence which puts social and environmental questions on the same level as economic and budgetary questions.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the commission has already taken action on this.
if we had only invested €50 billion - that is nothing compared to the €1.6 trillion we have created - we could have made a recovery plan in greece focused on energy savings and new energy, on the strong exporting sectors.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you note in your recitals, the sustainability of the reconciliation process in bosnia-herzegovina remains a challenge.
it must be clear, strong and articulated around a real investment strategy, in order to avoid a century-long stagnation and allow the development of a new economy that is resource-efficient, respectful of both people and the environment; in short, to enable the european union to make a success of its ecological transition.
in this respect, it is necessary, first, to strengthen sustainable infrastructures, including their social component.
finally, we must start thinking seriously about the introduction of a carbon tax which will enable us to achieve our objectives, as we set them at cop21.
i would like to emphasise two aspects: the 'skills' aspect and the 'environment' aspect which is favourable to job creation.
finally, on the business side, i believe that there is an urgent need to create a stable and simple regulatory environment for our smes, which are the main job creators.
mr harper, a climate-sceptic, is now advising multinationals; mr barroso, former president of the european commission, now advises goldman sachs; mr de gucht, formerly trade commissioner, now advises multinationals.
this means human rights, social rights and the environment above trade and investment rights.
you claim to be a climate activist with mr. trudeau.
two days ago, mr trudeau was with donald trump to reopen the keystone xl pipeline project, which barack obama had cancelled because he considered it "climate killer".
so yes, we want a partnership with the canadians, with the americans, with all the others, but on climate, on social rights, on the fight against tax havens, on banking supervision, and all that, there is nothing in these agreements!
unfortunately for them, you are more interested in the profits of multinationals than in the protection of citizens and the environment.
madam president, those of us who vote for this treaty will have a heavy responsibility in terms of employment, the environment, social progress, agriculture and food.
it is an aggravating contribution to the ecological and social crisis of human civilization, because it does not contain the slightest mention of the paris climate treaty, it encourages the import of the world's dirtiest fossil fuels, it encourages the most brutal, cruel and unfair agriculture, and it establishes special courts that allow large companies to fight against the laws of the people, but at the same time it accepts the social dumping of a country that has not signed the international labour organization's convention on negotiations.
first, it ignores all the great successes of multilateral diplomacy in recent years: the cop 21 on climate, the g20 agreement on tax evasion, it does not mention them.
above all, ceta offers only outdated responses to today's major challenges - climate change, growing inequalities, democratic distrust.
it takes into account our agricultural models, public procurement, legal systems and european health and environmental standards.
however, there are still too many uncertainties in the legal, economic and environmental fields.
in environmental terms, the precautionary principle is likely to be undermined by the process of 'recognition of equivalence'.
multinationals will be able to challenge social or environmental laws which they consider potentially harmful to their interests - whatever the name of the court may be in this respect.
in the current climate, europe cannot afford to leave loopholes which governments can so easily abuse.
governments will have no qualms, we know, about using this broad definition to silence acts of civil and environmental disobedience that go against their interests.
we know that manufacturers cheat on pollution tests, so how can we be sure that they will not cheat on some conformity tests?
the thematic concentration, designed to avoid the waste of funds, leaves rural and peri-urban areas in favour of large metropolises.
in terms of co2 emissions, this will translate into seven-fold levels by 2050, because the sector already accounts for 3% of global co2 emissions.
in my view, we have no room for such development without a technological shift and without a strong constraint, particularly on carbon emitted.
the other problem, besides the climate, is that the sector is unregulated.
the competition is unfair with the airport hubs and gulf airlines; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive.
today, therefore, it is a sector which must take into account, in an important way, the environmental aspect, the social aspect, but also the technological aspect.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'.
as long as the european union is not the business of the people themselves, as long as it does not take into account their aspirations for a better life, as long as it is not a project for justice, equality, solidarity, democracy, human and environmental well-being, it will continue to be rejected.
launch a great european popular debate preparing a european conference for the democratic, social, ecological and feminist refoundation of the european project.
the european project could be revived by amending the fund you have set up to make it a fund for social, human and environmental development which, at the same time, could refinance the over-indebted states.
beyond the efsi, i believe that for the european union, what we also need today is investment that is maintained in the service of social investment and the ecological transition in which the european union must engage.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by zdzisław krasnodębski, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the establishment of an information exchange mechanism with regard to intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments in the field of energy (com (2016) 0053 - c8-0034/2016 - 2016/0031 (cod)) (a8-0305/2016).
of course, this does not raise the question of the sustainability of our health care systems, but that is not why we should give up.
you complain about the limited budget, but you do not hesitate to support and want to make the specific measure for the integration of refugees, which costs eur 1 600 000, sustainable.
in the hostile climate europe is experiencing, this programme must serve as a springboard to relaunch the european project among citizens committed to a strong europe and in a spirit of reaffirmed solidarity.
so beyond our environmental awareness, it is a safety issue!
it should also be noted that we have a duty to look beyond market requirements, since this issue is also part of a perspective of sustainable co-development of the countries from which these species, often from the african continent, originate.
however, some communities on the ground are often socially and economically dependent on sustainable trade in these species, and therefore supporting them is essential to achieve trade that is biodiversity-friendly and leads to the preservation of jobs and growth for the communities concerned.
it puts our europe at the forefront of the fight against heavy metal pollution on the international stage, but it also gives our companies and researchers the time they need to develop viable alternatives.
dentists will also need to equip themselves with amalgam separators to prevent any release into the environment.
as regards the management of mercury waste, i have fought with my epp colleagues for the safest storage, i.e.
after the waste has been stabilised.
in the face of heavy metal pollution, the 'mercury' regulation before us today is an example of an efficient europe that protects.
mr president, commissioner, after the minamata disaster which has affected japan for several decades, it is time to take account of the harmful effects of this highly toxic substance, mercury, on our health and on our environment.
traceability is essential for mercury transport and waste management, but it should be a priority at international level.
i think it is reasonable that third countries should manage their mercury waste themselves and fully within ten years, as the text provides.
the text is welcome for further enhancing transparency by allowing citizens access to the european pollutant release and transfer register, extended, for the occasion, to the mercury waste stream.
finally, the text encourages the parties to the minamata convention to create a global monitoring tool for the use and transport of mercury, which appears to be the best framework for action, in terms of efficiency, on an environmental issue of this importance.
it is time to adopt this important directive, which will foster more long—term, transparent and sustainable capital markets in europe.
it will encourage institutional investors and asset managers to look at the long-term perspective and also consider environmental, social and governance factors when they invest.
it builds on lessons learned from the financial crisis and aims to foster sustainable growth.
as regards the points of transparency we have achieved, i would like to say, as an environmentalist, that i am glad that the question of environmental and social risks is also being taken into account and that it constitutes a new guide and a new future for the european union.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is "blue cardboard".
mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the europe of nations and freedoms group has attached a minority opinion to the report on waste.
the intermediaries are thus exempted from the responsibility of creating future waste for recycling, as are the suppliers of raw materials, and the burden falls on the producers, i.e.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not reused, and that the waste is not reused.
the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not reused.
from this point of view, in many situations, there are logistics platforms of producers, which means that this waste may not automatically be considered as household waste.
what we are voting on today is in the right direction, because we are putting in place a real logic in this area with a harmonisation of definitions, a stimulation of waste prevention, reuse and the secondary raw materials market.
we also mention an important line of thinking on the consideration of industrial and commercial waste.
i would like to return to the fight against food waste.
the basis for the establishment of a real policy to combat waste is laid down in this package, and i welcome it: a proposal for a european definition, the consideration of a specific hierarchy and the call for the establishment of a common methodology.
at the beginning of the 21st century, this model is no longer viable, due to its impact on climate and the scarcity of resources.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
the council recalls the importance of the interdependence of human rights, but does not mention the main subjects of the echr in this field: terrorists and human rights, human rights and the environment, democracy and the rule of law and human rights.
the development of an international legal instrument binding on business is also a key instrument, in particular in responding to the climate emergency.
the agenda calls for the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on official controls and other official activities to ensure the enforcement of food and feed law, animal health and animal welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products, amending regulations (ec) no 999/2001, (ec) no 396/2005, (ec) no 1069/2009, (ec) no 1107/2009, (eu) no 1151/2012, (eu) no 652/2014, (eu) 2016/429 and (eu) 2016/2031, council regulations (ec) no 1/2005 and (ec) no 1099/2005 and council directives 98/58/ec and 98/58/ec, as well as council directives 89/648/eec, 89/648/eec, 89/648/eec, 89/648/eec, 89/646/eec, 89/646/eec, 89/646/eec, 89/646/eec, 89/666/eec, 89/666/eec and 89/646/eec, and council regulations (ec) no 90/4256/eec, 89/662/eec, 89/666/eec and 89/709/eec, as well as council regulation (ec) no 106/67/704/ec, 2008/42/ec, 2009/42/ec and 2009/42/ec.
then there were the two treaties of rome, the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community, known as the euratom treaty.
the result is clear today, there is no longer any cooperation on atomic energy, since germany has decided to give up atomic energy.
our european dream in 2017 is 'a change in the economic paradigm for new growth, fair trade in our international agreements, tax equity, social progress, the fight against climate change through the development of a circular economy and renewable energies'.
whether it is to preserve the ecosystem of this northern region, to guarantee the rights of indigenous peoples or to support scientific research, we cannot but agree.
in particular, with regard to fisheries, the eu will have to defend in international fora the precautionary approach and sustainable development it applies to its waters.
madam president, the rapporteur proposes strong commitments on labour and social and environmental criteria in trade agreements.
however, we cannot reduce our dependence on palm oil without considering a sustainable alternative.
this energy transition must be accompanied by a social transition.
however, all our policies must establish a coherent framework for our future energy supply.
forests play a vital role in adapting to and mitigating the effects of climate change.
several avenues were launched in this report and some of them seem particularly important to me, including support for sustainable palm oil production, which safeguards the forest, ensures high transparency in production and good traceability while allowing the maintenance of local agriculture and its jobs.
in this context, i support the proposals for simpler and more understandable information for consumers on sustainable palm oil and the establishment of a single certification.
i think this is a matter for the review of the energy directive and i regret that some people have tried to use this report to preempt the discussions.
madam president, the revision of the energy directive will soon be presented to parliament, so i am starting to work on the methanisation issues.
in the case of palm oil, this issue is compounded by the problems of deforestation of the wet forests which are essential for climate balances, by the effects on working conditions and by pollution which is extremely dangerous for the local population, all to the benefit of a few.
in fact, sustainable, balanced and supervised management between producers and consumers must be put in place.
the french state is primarily responsible for this situation because its leaders have let everything go to waste for 40 years, like mrs taubira, who is guyanese.
at the beginning i want to very much stress that we have to remember one thing: the emissions scandal should keep all of us still alerted, for the sake of the consumers who bought cars based on false promises, because of the arrogance in disregarding the rules and, importantly, because of the loss of the time which should have been spent making progress on the topics of the future: driverless and zero emissions cars.
we delivered on laboratory testing: co2 emissions, fuel consumption will become really more realistic with the so-called wltp test.
we delivered on the new robust procedure to test co2 emissions, in real driving conditions, the rde packages.
this scandal should be followed by a massive work towards zero emissions cars.
zero emissions cars are the future of this industry.
this is to forget that they have already made significant technical efforts to reduce polluting emissions over the last fifteen years, which should be emphasised.
the us and european standards do not follow the same environmental and strategic logic.
diesel, long favoured for its co2 emissions, is now being transformed to reduce its health-harming nox emissions.
a better balance between petrol and diesel is inevitable in europe, but new diesel technologies will only have a future if they comply with environmental standards.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'.
the committee of inquiry into emissions measurement in the automotive sector (emis) has highlighted the weaknesses in the control system in the union and has tried to shed light on the causes of the problems and on how to remedy them.
the recommendations of this committee of inquiry concern all car manufacturers which have exceeded the pollution standards voted here ten years ago.
these recommendations must be set in stone if the rights and health of europe's 500 million consumers are to be protected from air pollution.
i will reply by saying that public health should not be seen as a cost but as an investment, especially when we consider the exorbitant price that europeans pay every year because of air pollution, the thousands of deaths but also the chronic diseases, sometimes of long duration, and the consequences for our health systems.
yes, we knew that emissions were higher on the road than in the laboratories, so already way back in 2012 we started a review of the eu type approval framework for motor vehicles, but the events of september 2015 really opened our eyes.
it is time for citizens to see that we are all pulling in the same direction and that we are all putting their interests, their health and their environmental concerns first.
type approval must put safety, environmental protection and the well-being of citizens first.
so far, only a handful of them have taken action against emissions cheating and only one member state seems truly decisive, so effectively the remaining member states are making the case for an agency by not acting.
this is not just important for their health and their safety, it is also important for the environment and the future of the planet.
in other words, in these famous episodes of air pollution, it is the health of our citizens that is directly affected.
secondly, it concerns particulate matter emissions, nox emissions and fraud in relation to these emissions and, therefore, health directly.
this dossier also covers co2 emissions, an area in which we have been fighting climate change, and state aid, since the states subsidize low-emission vehicles.
the report praises the fact that american manufacturers have met pollution standards that are comparable to those in europe.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
in greece, it is certainly more worrying than the average, but it should alert us to the risks facing the european union as a whole, which is currently unable to revive its economy in a sustainable way.
an effective and sustainable long-term response to the migration challenge in the central mediterranean cannot be found without a lasting solution to libya’s governance and security challenges.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while the flow of migrants to europe is set to explode again with the arrival of spring and summer, while the european court of auditors is denouncing the ineffectiveness of the union's policies on external border control, while even the french senate is denouncing the shortcomings in the functioning of the schengen area and the failure of the so-called hotspot policy, the parliamentary report which you are proposing to us tonight, obviously supported by the right-wing members of parliament, dares to demand that member states extend asylum to all economic and climate migrants, which is sheer folly.
after almost three years in the european parliament, i have unfortunately had to repeat that the budget of the european union is insufficient and that it must be fed by own resources, which are themselves drawn from the resources needed to meet the ecological and societal challenges.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
whatever mrs may calls this agreement, we will not accept any free trade agreement which undermines our social or environmental standards or which serves as a dessert court of arbitration.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by miapetra kumpala-natri, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 531/2012 as regards the rules applicable to wholesale roaming markets (com (2016) 0399 - c8-0219/2016 - 2016/0185 (cod)) (a8-0372/2016).
i would like to return to my experience: when i was mayor of strasbourg in 1980, the services were public and we had control of our waste, which avoided any deviation from the procedure since the city was responsible and managed itself, under its own control, all its waste management.
however, the best social policy is to return to employment, because only growth can bring about sustainable social progress.
in the name of 'budgetary sustainability', brussels is seeking to challenge the social acquis in each state.
these challenges, you know, are poverty, health emergencies, climate emergencies, population growth.
that is why we have taken this audit very seriously, because i believe it is the very guarantee of the sustainability of this absolutely necessary development aid policy.
what we are asking for is reasonable because it is conditional - as you know - on strict compliance with the principles of sustainability laid down by the cfp.
all the environmental and ecological precautions have been taken in the amendment which many of us in the house are proposing.
we also respect the maximum sustainable yield.
food waste is not only ethical, but also environmental, social and economic nonsense.
research and innovation also have a role to play, both in reducing food waste and in food security.
but to encourage donations, we must also ensure that these food aid organisations have the means to collect them, otherwise it would be a waste of money.
some of the waste is actually the result of the imposition of standards by distributors on producers to meet consumer expectations.
but i remain convinced that there is a need to seriously analyse the consequences of these standards both for food waste and for farmers' earnings.
the supply of unpalatable fruit and vegetables is random; but to make a chain work, you need a sustainable supply.
mr president, commissioner, in my country, france, 20 kilos of food waste are wasted per capita every year.
i am of course in favour of this text, which stresses the need for a clear definition of food waste so that it can be quantified and reduced as far as possible.
similarly, it is more than urgent to ensure that citizens better understand the difference between the words 'to consume until' and 'preferably before', since misunderstandings can lead to absurd waste.
i also support the idea that supermarkets, but also local authorities, must play a key role in reducing waste.
this is therefore not sustainable, either from a social or environmental point of view.
there's a lot of fuss about it at cop21 and you find out that agriculture accounts for a quarter of all water consumption, an area as large as china and about 10 percent of greenhouse gas emissions, and not all of it is used.
so yes, i welcome this report and i think we need to have binding targets, like for energy.
how can we, on the one hand, have a common agricultural policy that boosts productivity and, on the other hand, want to eliminate food waste?
it is therefore up to us in europe to act, and i think this is a real european problem which must be tackled in the member states to reduce this food waste.
many europeans are concerned that globalisation is leading to inequality, job losses and social injustice or to a lowering of environmental health and privacy standards.
for instance, countries with lower wages, environmental standards or taxes have increasingly competed with europe in low-skill and low-value-added segments of industry, leading to factory closures, job losses or downward pressure on our workers’ pay and conditions.
on the external front, the paper focuses on the need to shape a truly sustainable global order, based on shared values and a common agenda.
the eu’s progressive trade and investment agreements should continue not only to open markets in a reciprocal way but also to enhance global governance on issues including human rights, working conditions, food safety and environmental protection.
it also requires smart specialisation, smart digital, industrial, tax or innovation policies and an improvement in the business environment.
you just found out that globalization was twice the size of the planet, that there was twice as much predation on resources, twice as much pollution.
it is to subordinate trade policies to climate policies such as the paris agreement, health issues, social rights and democracy.
we must also fight against all forms of dumping, whether social, environmental or fiscal, and therefore i hope that the discussions on modernising trade defence instruments will soon be concluded and will allow them to be strengthened.
yes, it is possible to have progressive trade agreements, but for that we need more rules, more environmental standards, more social standards and more democratic oversight.
we must also be aware that the eu adheres to the principle that returns must be voluntary, dignified and sustainable.
that point was made in the mogadishu declaration of 22 february 2017, jointly endorsed by the region’s presidents, and also at the igad summit, held in nairobi on 25 march this year, on sustainable solutions for somalian refugees.
i am grateful, as the commissioner for humanitarian aid, that parliament is continuing to support the common efforts to bring about a sustainable and lasting solution to the regional refugee crisis.
this is not a sustainable situation for the kenyan government, for the neighbouring countries and even less so for all the people who live there.
secondly, the introduction of measures to stabilise the situation in somalia, always with an approach that, going beyond the emergency response, aims at the sustainable economic and human development of the population.
the situation outside the eu is also bad, as a homophobic law was passed in russia four years ago and the already deteriorating climate has worsened for lgbti people in that country.
this law is the negation of the other, of his difference, and it is this climate of hatred that led to the arrest of about 100 people in april in chechnya and their detention in absolutely monstrous conditions.
finally, the incentive to create jobs, because while the fintech ecosystem relies on the growth of young people who recruit, the automation of financial services could also disrupt myriad trades.
first, i expect our leaders to ensure that all parties, including the us, meet their commitments under the paris agreement and adequately fund the fight against climate change.
first of all, in defence of the paris agreement: reducing inequalities, fighting populism, means also fighting climate change and supporting the ecological transition on the basis of what was successfully achieved in the paris agreements.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
first, road contributes to 20% of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions.
it must be reduced, and fast, if we are to meet the commitments made at cop21 to save the planet, the climate and humanity.
the international community, namely the west, supported this partition for energy and economic reasons.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the share of road transport continues to increase, but so do the nuisances: pollution, climate change, road safety, social dumping.
road transport contributes 20% of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union.
the year 2017 will be just as difficult, commissioner, because climate problems persist and prices continue to fall.
this is not only in the area of justice and fundamental rights, but i also intensively try to mainstream the interests of vulnerable adults in the area of transport, consumer protection policy, the energy package, the digital single market strategy and, last but not least, the relatively fresh work—life balance package, where we want to enable families to better combine their duties at home, including caring for disabled, handicapped or elderly members of their families, with their work.
worse, some of our environmental commitments to biofuels will increase restrictions on access to water and lead us to a difficult trade-off between food and energy self-sufficiency.
the southern shores of the mediterranean are caught between population explosion, rapid urbanization and global warming.
within the limits of our financial capacity, projects supported by prima must focus on technical solutions that meet the challenge of a sustainable and sufficient water supply.
its biodiversity is threatened, in particular by land and marine pollution which endangers the food chain and thus the fishery resource.
there is a contradiction between the core of the 2013 common fisheries policy, which focuses on maximum sustainable yield, and the fact that no conclusions are drawn from it for the placing of species under quotas in the mediterranean.
beyond declarations of intent, we must find a constant balance between the socioeconomic and environmental aspects, without opposing them, as the rapporteur has done, and i thank him for that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, behind energy efficiency i fear that once again we are giving brussels and the european commission new powers.
i've been a staunch supporter of energy efficiency since 1980, when i was the head of, among other things, energy efficiency here.
but with this proposal for a regulation, everything is being done to strip the states of their prerogatives by moving from the directive to the regulation, by giving a blank check to the commission and giving it very wide areas to adopt delegated acts, in particular to set the thresholds for energy performance categories.
the consumer must also be informed of the energy performance of the process and the place of manufacture and transport.
it is the ecological and even social impact that should be the subject of information to the consumer.
this is also energy efficiency.
otherwise we risk doing what we have been doing for decades with our environmental regulations: exporting our pollution and giving ourselves a good conscience in europe.
what we shall be voting on tomorrow and after the trilogue is, roughly speaking, the position of the committee on industry, research and energy.
i thank the rapporteur because a few months ago, before renewing the purchase of a washing machine, for example, many people were lost in the labels, without really understanding or knowing the difference in terms of energy consumption.
it should be noted that the vast majority of european states are also parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, or to the international civil aviation organisation (icao) for the air sector, or to the international maritime organisation (imo) for the maritime sector.
so it is not the european union's signing, ratifying and implementing the paris agreement that will bring the us back into the heart of pragmatic, effective and global climate action.
finally, the european union is not at all contradictory in wanting to reduce emissions on the one hand, while defending free trade models that only exacerbate these emissions on the other.
in the field of the environment, the short circuits, the relocation of businesses and economic patriotism that we have been advocating for years are not the problem but the solution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a great responsibility to define the european union's climate policy for the next thirty years.
the climate emergency requires and calls us to take action in line with the expectations and awareness of our citizens, to face the challenge of our century: the future of our planet.
the text under discussion today aims to translate into european law the climate commitments made by the union and the member states under the paris agreement.
with donald trump's decision to leave the paris agreement, it is more crucial than ever that the european union sticks to its commitments to combat global warming.
i therefore call on members to vote in favour of the report as a whole, as adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
among the four guiding principles you propose, i suggest that you add that of contributing to sustainable development and the implementation of the objectives of the paris conference.
a euro area budget would be the engine of new economic development based on future investments, in particular those linked to the ecological transition, and thus allowing the creation of jobs so much needed by europe's youth.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on glyphosate and the authorisation procedures by angelique delahaye, miriam dalli, julie girling, gerben-jan gerbrandy, kateřina konečná, bart staes, piernicola pedicini and jean-françois jalkh, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000046/2017 - b8-0316/2017) (2017/2695rsp))
on behalf of the ppe group.
mr president, to talk about glyphosate is of course to talk about the weight of monsanto, but also about the opacity regarding the disclosure of the studies carried out on this product and its impact on the environment and therefore on humans.
we regret this, however, because sustainable development must unite across party lines.
in the wake of the next us presidential election, are to be nuanced, especially in view of the weight of the united states of 14% in global emissions.
china, which has overtaken europeans, including germany, in the photovoltaic sector since 2015, cannot be the sole innovator in renewable energy.
beyond the industrial project, it is a question of delivering on the promises made to europeans about the energy transition: those of a new economic model, a source of growth and jobs.
madam president, no one can now say that they knew nothing about climate change: the recurrence of natural disasters, increasingly violent, affecting deprived territories and therefore poor populations, impoverishing them a little more, the rising waters, which threaten the coasts and islands, and finally drought, which is responsible for famine in east africa, are unfortunately a reality and may eventually lead to the exodus of thousands, even millions of people, not to mention our biodiversity, which is also at risk.
the protection of our environment and the technological revolution it brings are what modernity is all about.
europe has set itself a clear and visionary path to defend the climate.
but, frankly, if the climate and environmental speeches were to save the planet, it would be known.
the credibility of climate diplomacy, the credibility of leadership, is the credibility of climate action that is being asked.
too often, the european commission and the council, as well as the right wing of this parliament, by listening too much to the lobbies of nuclear, oil, gas, intensive agriculture, forestry and transport, do not see all the smes, researchers, start-ups, communities and citizens who want to do more for the climate and who are building the world of tomorrow today.
if there is a good project for europe, it is to reconcile ourselves with the future, with the climate.
his decision is the decision of a democratically elected head of state who has never hidden his climate-skepticism and who has only one goal, to protect american jobs.
you better take a lesson from them, you who can't fight unemployment or terrorism, but you claim to be doing something about the climate.
there is of course the intensification of the thematic diversity (i am thinking in particular of the ecological transition issues) and there is the regional dimension of the projects financed: i still believe it is abnormal that greece still has only limited access to this fund.
the needs are many: infrastructure, including broadband, a 'carbon-free' economy, support for smes, support for research, the fight against youth unemployment, etc.
finally, we must above all respond to a worrying situation: some foreign investors may, by accessing the european market, take control of strategic sectors, notably security or energy.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on the digital economy with the report by nicola danti, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the european agenda for the collaborative economy (2017/2003 (ini)) (a8-0195/2017) and the report by henna virkkunen and philippe juvin, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on online platforms and the digital single market (2016/2276 (ini)) (a8-0204/2017).
in the interests of realism, we therefore propose that the commission suspend its proceedings and bring together the port states and their stakeholders in the sector, so that listening, understanding the issues and, above all, the search for sustainable solutions are finally at the forefront.
first, a sustainable industry.
we can maintain industrial activity, including heavy industry, on european territory, provided that we make sustainability the first element of competitiveness.
the carbon levy, unfortunately, is a non-investment incentive.
we need a coherent link between trade, environmental, energy, investment, competition and employment policies.
yet, many studies confirm the link between a favorable family environment and academic success.
they also improve competitiveness, quality and performance, and promote consumer protection, business development, worker conditions and environmental concerns, if they are established in the common interest.
we address those issues in our communication ‘next steps for a sustainable european future’.
you know we are supporting, through the health programme, the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) work on access to innovative medicines and sustainability.
europe has indeed been concerned with the question of product life in a sectoral way for a long time, but this is the first time that we have tried to address it in a transversal way and, i would say, in a sustainable perspective, by trying to place this question in its overall context.
its overall context is at the heart of the new economy, it is at the heart of the european union's sustainable development, simply because it touches on the environmental issue, it touches on the economic and production issue, it touches on the consumption issue and the social issue.
simply by trying to get out of a logic of a society of waste, a society of disposable and a society of waste.
resources are precious today, all resources, whether it is land, water or all the elements that make it possible to produce oil, energy.
then there's the climate issue, with our products travelling thousands of kilometres to get to our shops and then into our homes.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
we also need - as my colleague kathleen van brempt has said - to use the energy, the momentum, the impetus and the engine that the outcome of the paris conference represents to change, to change and to transform the economic model of the euro area and of the european union.
finally, i would like to agree with you on most of the objectives you have mentioned, such as economic strength, sustainability, solidarity and security.
our future must be based on three pillars: a consolidated solidarity for our citizens and our territories; an economic power oriented towards sustainable development, which will give us energy and food autonomy; a security policy to ensure peace.
we will certainly have to reorient the cap, look at the world of life differently, link agriculture to food, human health and the protection of our environment.
simone veil, would she be satisfied today with a european project which would be a project for the unhindered movement of goods, services and investments, which would put our legislation, our environmental and social regulations and our democratic sovereignty within the reach of the old world multinational firms, oil, nuclear and endocrine disruptors?
to do that, it has to change its footing and not be at the g20 promoting free trade agreements that are producing all the chaos in the world and that are fuelling a development model that is twice the size of the planet, twice the size of predation and twice the size of pollution.
if there is one element that europe needs to bring to the g20, it is the climate issue, and to bring this issue, it is not enough to say that we will respect the paris agreement: europe is not on the paris agreement's trajectory in terms of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions.
terrorism, the migration challenge, the climate challenge, the democratic challenge, the economic challenge -- it is high time that the european union finally took a fresh look at the african continent and helped it to develop and to achieve peace.
we cannot have played such an exemplary role in the conclusion of the paris agreement at cop 21 and leave finance in the basel area that ignores the objectives of financing the ecological transition.
to do this, the work of the task force on climate-related financial disclosure (tcfd) must be supported, while the trump administration wants to ignore all the conclusions reached under mr bloomberg's leadership.
for the european union, this means that in each of the instances, first in basel, but also within the international accounting standards board (iasb), you must defend, and make concrete in the form of market regulation, these requirements of a change in the investment climate in favour of a transition to the financing of long-term investments, renewable energies at the expense of fossil fuel economies, which continue to irrigate too many criteria of excellence of the european economy.
but to address the refugee crisis, to revive the economy, to respond to the climate emergency, unity needs a renewed solidarity in the face of national egos.
mr president, less than a year after the european commission proposed the creation of the european fund for sustainable development (efsd), this new instrument will come into force.
it is therefore crucial that the sector is mobilised and that the member states support and accompany the edf, in order to make it an instrument for sustainable development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not believe that the european union is in a position to act for sustainability, given that it advocates an ultra-liberal model whose primary characteristic is precariousness, that is to say the opposite of sustainability, precariousness both social and environmental.
instead, i believe in the ability of our nations to act for the sustainability of the world and for their own sustainability.
energy is obviously one of the first human rights, which is a condition for access to so many other human rights, be it water, health or employment.
energy is an absolutely powerful territorial factor of equilibrium.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'.
do you not think that we should stop debating this, since it is obviously a waste of time?
but what the ors need now is not just a new strategy, but concrete, rapid and effective measures for youth employment, for fisheries, for their access to all the union's horizontal programmes and to the trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications networks.
finally, as regards research, education, environment, enterprise competitiveness, transport and telecommunications policies, we call on the european commission to take the octs more into account in order to ensure their effective participation in the various programmes.
i therefore hope that it will be ambitious and will have concrete ways forward to ensure the sustainable development of the outermost regions.
in this climate of mistrust, this report proves that the european union is protecting its citizens.
with a traffic growth rate of 5% per year, air transport emissions could be at least tripled by 2050. we therefore need to adopt a global regulatory mechanism to compensate for these increased co2 emissions from airlines.
unfortunately, the corsia mechanism will only be legally binding from 2027. in the face of this climate emergency, we must, commissioner, limit the extension of the 'stop the clock' to 2020, i believe that this is a matter of defending europeans and, beyond that, all those who are affected by climate change in the fight against climate change.
space is in all public policies, starting with environmental issues, defence, agriculture, digital...it is a cross-cutting sector!
where they should be working on solutions for citizens, they are spending all their energy on fighting for their own personal struggles.
secondly, only long-term contracts can guarantee the energy security of the member states.
they are the links in the energy security chain.
by weakening long-term contracts, by weakening the negotiating power of the states, by promoting the spot market for the benefit of speculation, the commission and this parliament are not ensuring europe's energy security but its energy insecurity.
european citizens are rightly concerned about their food, agriculture and the environment.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
it took us 12 years of negotiations and a waste of over 10 billion euros to reach a historic conclusion: turkey is not european!
no statistics can tell us exactly how the workers who have been thrown out onto the streets because we do not fight off-shoring feel about this union, or how the small farmers feel about the low prices and the end of milk quotas, or how the unemployed feel about the unemployment rate that is constantly being held up to their noses in order to make them feel better about being precarious and poor workers, or even less about the rate of growth which is in fact a growth in profits and pollution.
because we do not listen to the people, because the european union does not have an ideal of social and ecological humanism.
the terrible cyclone that has just devastated the west indies, cuba and a part of the united states requires us to act energetically against the climate disruptions caused by transport and carbon-based energy, free trade agreements, such as the one with canada that you have just praised, mr president, but which is contrary to the options of the paris agreement.
there is an urgent need to build a europe combining social and environmental progress in transport, energy, housing, urban renewal, agriculture and to help change production systems.
this could be possible, not by creating a european monetary fund as you have just done, but by transforming the fund bearing your name, the juncker fund, into a large social and environmental development fund linked to the european central bank, to help states to get out of debt and launch innovative investment projects that create jobs, by developing public services, by launching new projects to secure the career paths of all europeans, starting with young people.
let us launch consultations and forums, from the municipalities and regions to the european institutions, as part of the general principles for the democratic, social and ecological refoundation of the european construction.
we want debate, mr president, real debate, to make the european union a force for social and ecological progress, a force for peace in democracy.
have you sanctioned car manufacturers for violating pollution standards?
look for the mistake... we collectively owe it to the 400 000 premature deaths caused by air pollution every year, to the workers in the automobile industry who are being sent to the wall with diesel fuel, to the taxpayers, because europe has lent manufacturers 13 million euros to make their vehicles clean.
the automotive industry has made enormous efforts and investments over the last 15 years to reduce vehicle pollution and we are all aware of the need for these changes, especially for health.
the objectives, particularly environmental objectives, must not be utopian and must take account not only of the environment but also of the problems of our industries.
the emis commission was set up in early 2016 with the volkswagen case and aimed to find out whether brussels or the member states were aware of the differences between european emission standards and the reality of emissions from engines of different european vehicle brands.
however, most manufacturers would abuse the rule allowing them to reduce the efficiency of the pollution control systems in the event that they risk damaging the engine (article 5 of community regulation no 715/2007).
finally, the report of the commission of inquiry commended the compliance of american manufacturers with pollution standards comparable to european standards.
however, there is concern that climate change could increase the intensity and even the frequency of disasters that could trigger the use of the fund.
in the face of this unleashed force of nature, we must show humility and dignity, but we must also be clear about the time lost since the first ipcc reports for the adaptation of islands to extreme climatic phenomena that we know will increase with the climate changes that are already underway.
it responds to the urgent need for visibility and stability, which is an insufficient but necessary condition for the economic and social sustainability of any economic activity.
another condition for the sustainability of fishing activity is the sustainable management of the resource.
the implementation of the maximum sustainable yield (msy) in line with the level of tacs (total allowable catches) has already produced spectacular results for fish stocks, with 52% of north sea stocks being managed sustainably and having reached the msy - and we do not say this enough, commissioner - and the results are even better in the north-east atlantic.
the plan should also serve as a roadmap for future friendly cooperation between the union and third countries in the sustainable management of fisheries resources.
the waste of €155 billion from the european social fund (esf) is demonstrated: out of 30 million participants, 21 million did not find a job after their training.
the african peoples are particularly affected, tired and disappointed by so much electoral sham, when the issues that are vital to them should be at the heart of politics: food issues, energy issues, land use planning and ecological threats.
marrying a child is therefore clearly contrary to the child's best interests, which are to build up and to enjoy, as far as possible, the protection of a family environment until he or she reaches the age of majority.
this is the message we are sending to the president of the united states in our joint resolution on cop 23. the announcement of the us withdrawal from the paris agreement finally galvanised the other 194 signatories at cop 21 and, since 1 june, heads of state and government from around the world have been reaffirming their commitment to keep the global temperature rise between 2.4 and 6.6 degrees by 2050. commissioner, we believe that the european union is the new leader the world needs to effectively combat climate change.
we therefore encourage you to address the following seven priorities at cop23 in bonn: the creation of innovative financing to combat climate change, with the fixing of a floor price for a tonne of carbon and the reform of the european carbon trading system; the establishment of a genuine circular economy and the boosting of renewable energies; the abolition of subsidies to the fossil fuel sector, which will eventually lead to the phase-out of fossil fuels; the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules for the implementation of this regulation and the rules for the implementation of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 4 of this regulation.
the implementation of the financial commitment of developed countries to provide usd 100 billion per year to developing countries by 2020; promoting universal access to sustainable energy in developing countries, particularly in africa, which has incredible renewable energy potential, which is currently untapped; the impact of climate change on migration and the international recognition of climate refugee status.
obviously, we need the paris agreement, but the paris agreement is two things: diplomacy, with an ambitious, serious target of 1.5 or 2 degrees, but it is also climate action and, on this point, climate action by states, today, it is 3, 4, 5 degrees of global warming.
our topic is to move from diplomacy to climate action because that's where all the schizophrenics come in.
my president of the republic, emmanuel macron, the president of france, guarantor of the paris agreement, gives a magnificent speech on climate at the united nations, but at the european level, as you know, he is sabotaging renewable energy targets and he is sabotaging european cooperation strategies on climate action.
yes, the good news is that the european union must lead on climate action.
the good news is that the european union has all the elements: cheap renewable energy, jobs created, land use planning.
so for the european union to become the leader in climate action is good for the climate and a great project for all europeans.
from cop to cop, the european union is often portrayed as being at the forefront of the climate fight.
the stiglitz report calls for a price for all global emissions of between 50 and 100 dollars by 2030, but we are a long way from that.
so we need urgent measures, and i have been advocating for a long time for the introduction of carbon adjustment at the borders, for example, but it has been talked about for so long and nothing has been done.
it not only takes up the who definition of endocrine disruptors, but above all it puts the european union once again at the forefront of health and environmental protection.
mr president, commissioner, you said that health and the environment must be protected.
we must not be complicit in a definition which does not correspond to the protection of health and the environment.
however, from the outset our group has been very clear, and we have fought to ensure that, at a minimum, the objectives pursued by this treaty are consistent with those which we consider essential to pursue, namely the objective of sustainable growth in employment, competitiveness and social cohesion.
at the outset, we said that this treaty should be complemented by economic policies that are favourable to sustainable growth or job creation.
of course, the competence of the public prosecutor's office could be broader and cover, for example, environmental crimes, but its powers could be extended in the future.
prison today is a waste of taxpayers' money, a waste of time for prisoners, and a waste of time for society.
this is an absolute necessity, because it is the basis of the sustainable solution.
this sector, which is a key contributor to the promotion of a more sustainable and inclusive model of growth and development, not only in the european union but also worldwide, needs a suitable framework to develop.
each european country therefore has an interest in structuring its social economy in a sustainable way in accordance with its own characteristics.
i therefore look forward to the commission's proposals on this subject and hope that they will match the energy that millions of europeans are putting into this more inclusive and sustainable economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the updating of the market of fertilisers bearing the ce marking is essential to comply with the requirements of health, safety and environmental protection.
at present, only traditional fertilisers obtained by extraction or chemical processes have access to the internal market and have the famous ce label, while 50% of fertilisers currently on the market are excluded from this label - organic, animal or agricultural by-products, biological waste.
the first is to encourage the production in the european union of fertilisers from organic or secondary materials to develop the circular economy model by converting waste into nutrients, thus reducing the european union's dependence on nutrients imported from third countries.
this is a non-negotiable requirement, as it could of course jeopardise the survival of agriculture, which already faces competition from imported products that do not always comply with the environmental constraints of the european union.
i regret the position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
so if we follow the vote of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we will find ourselves dependent on sources of supply from russia and finland.
but in any case, these are the advances for health and the environment that i would like us to support tomorrow.
today, just a few minutes ago, you told us that you wanted to do the same with mexico or mercosur, that is to say, that you would again place our agriculture, in particular, in unfair competition with countries which do not respect any of the rules, whether health, social or environmental, thus causing the death of whole sections of our economy.
of course, without europe, we will be swept away by globalisation, but when the european union becomes a small liberal globalisation and, through its free trade agreements, puts employees, territories and, increasingly, the choices of society in competition, it puts the climate, health, the environment, the protection of personal data or public services within the reach of a few multinationals.
mr timmermans, we must change our trade policy so that social, environmental and human rights finally take precedence over trade and investor rights.
we share with the commission and the council most of the priorities for 2018: investment, employment, sustainable growth, managing the migration challenges.
in a difficult period of economic recovery, it seems to me important and positive that the union should give priority to research, education, climate change and, of course, the fight against youth unemployment.
we are certainly increasing the money for the youth employment initiative, we are certainly providing substantial support for young farmers who are moving in, we are clearly supporting all sustainable policies in the areas of employment, energy and social inclusion, and yet today i am worried.
further and faster action is needed, including the introduction of protection against toxic substances, which would prevent miscarriages, birth defects and various health problems for the future children of exposed workers, and protect the 19 million workers exposed to diesel emissions in a timely manner.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'.
now, i think the best way to fight terrorism is to watch out for suspects and s-files and not waste your time looking at millions of honest people.
finally, madam president, i want everyone to be informed here, so that members know what they are risking, what they are doing and that they are aware that this is not ethically sustainable.
thirdly, and equally important to us, is the idea - the rapporteur has pointed out - that environmental criteria are integrated into mortgages or car loans.
in a way, we anticipated the work you are now doing in the european commission, which we also introduced in the priips framework and which we will continue to promote, so that financial markets also contribute to the sustainable development of our planet.
cattle, sheep, cereals, sugar - these are already all sectors which will be affected invariably and directly in france and in europe, not to mention the carbon footprint, since the steaks on our plates will have travelled 15,000 kilometres, even though we have good and healthy quality meat here at home, and, alongside this absurdity, the european union advocates respect for the environment at all times.
so, frankly, when we talk about climate change, let's not forget that we're talking about increasing trade with countries that are more than 10,000 kilometers away from here; in terms of carbon footprint, i don't think it's a good thing.
on a number of key points, he is very clear: on respect for fundamental rights, which i consider to be the cornerstone, on the migration crisis, on the responsibility of member states which do not respect the quotas for the reception of refugees, which is a heavy stain on our behaviour, and on breaches of environmental law.
mr president, environmental protection is a major challenge for the 21st century.
the european directive of 21 april 2004 therefore set out to contribute to this noble ambition by implementing environmental responsibility on the basis of the 'polluter pays' principle.
we all know how worrying air pollution has become.
but other proposals go too far, such as the creation of a european compensation fund or the granting of tax benefits to companies that are committed to preventing environmental damage.
i think it would be better to encourage each state to set up a national compensation fund to compensate for environmental damage in the event of the insolvency of polluters.
mr president, i thank our colleague laura ferrara for her work on this report, whose main theme, namely the repair of damage caused to the environment by human activity, is particularly close to my heart.
i fully support the aim of this report to extend the definition of environmental damage to air, ecosystems and landscape.
the current definition of the directive of 21 april 2004 is too narrow, and many fields of activity which are dangerous for the environment are not included in its scope.
the environment is our common heritage, and our only right to it is to preserve, protect and pass it on to our children.
the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the protection of the environment, which is to be implemented by the member states.
it is therefore necessary to seriously question our relationship with the environment, when we know that this species dating back millions of years, which has withstood the worst cataclysms, is now threatened.
it is precisely on this point that we are embarking on this approach for the first time and i am very proud that in this parliament, together with the council, we have finally recognised social dumping and environmental dumping in our policies to protect our industries, our employees, our jobs and, of course, the protection of employees and the environment.
publicly, we will be able to have a debate on the non-compliance with ilo conventions or the non-compliance with multilateral environmental agreements.
what will be left of this debate, i think, is that we are extending the definition of dumping to social and environmental issues and we are happy about that.
nevertheless, we have an opportunity to get our act together through the ongoing negotiation of trade defence instruments, for example, the environmental criteria, which have just been mentioned, are etched in stone.
will exporters have to buy pollution rights like any other european company or will we continue as before, that is to say, nothing?
therefore, carbon adjustment at europe's borders is the indispensable tool to combat environmental dumping and also protect public health.
i would like to welcome the inclusion of environmental and social criteria as a first step towards strengthening trade that applies the same rules to all.
this resilience must be addressed in the five dimensions: political, security, economic, environmental and social.
this must be achieved through investments in key sectors such as the blue economy, research, digitalisation, but also energy, basic infrastructure and agriculture.
we need to strengthen the tools to fight tax evasion and corruption, which are a prerequisite for sustainable development.
environmental and social resilience are also important elements of our report.
in addition to the demographic challenges we need to address, the issue of climate change is crucial for the african continent, given the increasing number of natural disasters in the last 10 years and their increased intensity.
in order to put in place sustainable solutions, it is urgent that the member states participate financially in the various funds set up at european level, as president juncker has recalled.
mr president, commissioner, the title of the action plan you are proposing links together the natural environment, the population and the economy.
the conservation of biodiversity is an objective which we must share with the population, with all the population, those directly affected by the measures taken as well as those more distant.
in order to restore the confidence and hope of europeans, we call for the creation of a new europe based on four pillars: a social, ecological, fundamental rights-respecting and profoundly european europe.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, colleagues, global greenhouse gas emissions are on the rise again.
the cop 23 climate summit is being held a few kilometres from here in germany, and what is being heard?
everyone knows that this requires, among other things, that the transport sector finally reduce its co2 emissions, which have increased by 30% since 1990. then everyone knows.
why are you simply setting a target of 30% reduction in co2 emissions when several european countries are calling for a 40% reduction by 2030?
these are issues that concern citizens, since the pollution issue is not being addressed, employees, since the basis for a sustainable conversion of the sector in europe is not being laid, and european consumers, who still cannot benefit from genuine clean mobility.
so i am not talking about future generations, i am talking about the present generations, my dear colleagues, about the children who are in your schoolyards and who breathe pollution, about the people who discovered two years ago that they were victims of a gigantic diesel fraud and who are now being asked to trust the car manufacturers.
the climate emergency, it's here.
if trump has decided to do nothing, well europe, it must be able to be the leader in action, then we will accompany you in your action, because we can no longer talk about global warming, but about climate peril.
this policy, which is being pursued and financed by the union, has an overwhelming environmental and social cost.
it is local production and consumption that would significantly reduce polluting emissions.
then the commission will be able to seriously propose its five-year plans to create billions of alternative energy supply points, energy sources that pollute as much as conventional fuels, starting with electricity, largely and for many years still produced by coal, oil or even nuclear power stations, with their waste having a lifespan of a thousand years.
the stars seem to be aligning to produce effective legislation to combat greenhouse gas emissions.
the urgency is all the more acute as we have just learned that emissions are rising again this year, increasingly threatening our ability to stay below the two degrees mark for average warming.
but while there are some interesting elements in the commission's package, the fact remains that the overall ambition falls far short of what the climate crisis requires.
the commission of inquiry into emissions fraud completed its work in april this year and the way is already being paved for further exceedances of the emission ceilings.
the commission has not yet indicated that co2 emissions will be measured under real driving conditions, as will nitrogen oxide emissions.
the european union is a leader in the fight against pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, but if we rely on our laurels, if we let immediate economic contingencies dictate our long-term political priorities, then who will be the driver of the exit from fossil fuels that are so harmful to health and the climate?
madam president, i would like to echo my colleagues, and i think we all feel that european environmental law, the acquis, is an extremely important part of european law and that it is not just important to adopt the right but also to check how much of it is implemented in national legal systems and, therefore, how much is actually implemented.
and in the environmental field, i think this is a particularly important issue.
i welcome the commission's information that evaluation reports on the state of the environment are being prepared.
i want to emphasize and recommend that, in addition to criticising the shortcomings of individual member states, positive examples should also be highlighted, that there should be more dialogue with individual member states rather than just criticism if there are shortcomings, because then we will have a natural resistance to the environmental acquis in individual member states, and that is something that nobody wants.
i am also glad that the commission representatives here have said that the environment council will be debating more about the implementation of these regulations in the future.
madam president, the review of the implementation of environmental policy includes 28 reports analysing the performance of the member states in implementing this legislation.
however, there are specificities and profound differences between each country in legal, environmental and public policy matters.
the oral question to the council asks states to support the extension of the scope of the environmental policy implementation review to the regulation on chemicals, industrial emissions and climate change, while pointing to a lack of funding.
yet, according to the commission's website, €180 billion is already being spent on climate action, or 20% of the union's 2014-2020 budget.
i therefore oppose the examination of the implementation of environmental policy becoming a pit for the net contributor countries, which will probably have to finance these additional billions.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard".
madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the members of my political group who defended our priorities during the budgetary conciliation in a difficult climate, facing once again an inconsistent council that was little aware of its responsibilities.
a third example: no single member state has the authority to do something about climate change no single member state!
i think that our british friends, who rightly feel very strongly about climate protection, need to understand: without the european union, europe would no longer be relevant in the global discourse on climate change.
there is a lot that can be done to improve the environment and climate protection.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
and we also have a contribution today which does not exhaust the debate to come, and i say this in particular to the groups which had reservations: yes, we will need a more sustainable system in the future and this can be the subject of a political debate in the coming periods.
this is the subject of this regulation, since it sets a sustainable framework for our fishing activities worldwide: sustainable because it targets flag-changing operations, a well-known circumvention phenomenon; sustainable because it makes the issuing of fishing authorisations conditional on compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy and the sound management of fisheries resources; the commission has also proposed that the fishing effort be made more sustainable by establishing clear rules to help combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
however, i would like to draw your attention to the other aspect of the real achievement of this sustainability objective, namely the content of international trade agreements.
let us put in place a real policy of promoting our social and environmental standards when negotiating these agreements and we will have a coherent policy of promoting sustainable fisheries at world level.
mr president, since 2016, the international civil aviation organisation (icao), which brings together 191 states, has defined the objectives and main elements of a global market for co2 emissions from international aviation, for the period after 2021. this 'corsia' programme will work to stabilise emissions at 2020 levels.
the commission shall, however, publish a report by 1 march 2020 assessing the appropriateness of the standards and practices recommended by icao, the instruments adopted, and the ambition and environmental integrity of the mechanism.
mr president, the problem is that we are caught between two fires, if i may say so: on the one hand, the need to respond to the climate emergency and, therefore, to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to respond to the climate emergency and, therefore, to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements.
but the nations will rise up before you succeed in reaching it, for the nations are still alive and their vital energy will eat you.
it is also ten times more than what the paris conference decided to allocate to the green climate fund.
the commission has therefore taken important steps towards effective harmonisation of corporate and bank taxation, since it would make it possible to redirect money towards job creation and the environmental transition: taxing financial speculation, requiring bank transparency and preventing organised fraud, particularly in the area of vat.
(the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'.
i see your usual attitude of denying climate crises or financial crises, and the role of tax havens, particularly that of the uk, which has a network of tax havens that are extremely harmful to the rest of the union, and i hope that in the second part of the negotiations we will get your country to apply european regulations to your offshore territories in order to have access to the single market.
i can only be pleased, as this investment plan is a cornerstone of the overall strategy we need for the european union if it is to meet its investment challenges, and first and foremost sustainable investment.
you will recall that in the first debate on the first investment plan my group and a few others wanted to limit the share of investment in favour of the ecological transition to 20%; it was not possible.
mr president, commissioner, the commission declared a year ago that the sustainable development goals (sdgs) were integrated into all its 10 priorities.
yet the eurostat report shows that in just five years, five sdgs have shown significant progress, such as sdg 7 'clean and affordable energy', sdg 12 'responsible consumption and production' and sdg 3 'good health and well-being'.
first, prevention: how can we prevent abuse, which often occurs in the immediate family environment?
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, remember that not so long ago, in 2009-2010, europe was the leader in the fight against global warming; we were voting for a climate-energy package to set a course for our industry in terms of energy efficiency.
from 1990 to 2015, transport emissions increased by 16%.
transport accounts for 25% of europe's greenhouse gas emissions, 70% of which is road transport.
air pollution causes 400 000 premature deaths in europe every year.
i would remind you that in 2011 your commission committed itself to reducing co2 emissions from transport by 60% by 2050 compared to 1990. but how?
unfortunately, when reading your commission's proposals on co2 emissions from vehicles, it seems that europe is waiting for the market to do wonders, while china has decided to produce a minimum of 10% of electric vehicles by 2019. it is fine to criticise mr donald trump for his climate commitments, but it is better for europe to take the lead on climate change and set an example.
our objective must be clear: to actually reduce co2 emissions from transport in europe.
it is also paradoxical to want to reduce emissions while the european union is promoting, through the trans-european transport network programme, the acceleration of the integration of the new member states and the achievement of an internal market, ideally without barriers.
this worrying phenomenon results in an increasing demand for mobility and therefore for additional co2 emissions, whereas jobs should be protected in each country, but this would still require the will to do so.
mr president, the european union is the most advanced region in the world in terms of environmental standards and the fight against climate change.
transport generates pollution, that is a fact, and even if we can try to reduce it, it will never be zero.
however, we can try to reduce pollution at source, but to do this effectively, we need a binding minimum target for manufacturers, otherwise it will remain a wishful thinking.
in that case, you do not mind that the union is dealing with the vietnamese government to the detriment of our workers, the environment and public health.
against this background, the eu is striving to reiterate, on every occasion, the concept that citizens’ opinions, expressed peacefully, enrich countries and are a pillar of sustainability and prosperity.