transparency was also an issue, and parliament’s president has to carry through the recent rule changes that we have made, as well as doing more on environmental progress and social responsibility.
and when i travel outside the european union, i am often told that our commitment to universal human rights, democracy and solidarity within and across our borders, backed by environmental progress, is what makes the european union a valued partner.
we have supported proposals for the european union to act together, to manage the refugee situation (which council has singularly failed to do), and as parliament, we have acted to push council to be a stronger negotiator in the critically-important climate change negotiations.
but i believe we are stronger when we promote the values of democracy, universal human rights, and solidarity on a sustainable planet together, and on that basis, i would be honoured to work with you as your president.
what we heard from martin verwey in our civil liberties committee last week made us feel that this is not a sustainable situation for the coming weeks and we can do more.
mr president, this report is a key milestone, and we must indeed refocus the delivery of the eu 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, paying much more attention to social education and employment targets, as well as properly recognising the contribution of culture in reaching the so-called social triple a for the development and wellbeing of individuals and societies.
mr president, this communication is very welcome, given the urgency around the need to mitigate the negative effects of climate change.
within the scope of the energy union framework strategy, i particularly welcome the increased focus on clean energy, rather than solely green energy.
while the need for radical reductions in carbon are clear and well known, there are other notable pollutants such as nox and pm which also have hugely detrimental effects on both human health and the environment, and these need to be addressed.
i welcome the reference to the new nec directive and the reiteration – albeit only in a footnote – that in 2013 more than 450 000 people are estimated to have died prematurely from air pollution in the eu, and lost days at work caused by respiratory disease amount to a eur 15 billion loss to the eu economy.
i would like to see a clear preference given to investment in projects that combine the two objectives of lowering greenhouse gas emissions, and lowering other pollutants.
the transition to clean energy is already having a profound effect on the global energy market, and there are clear indications that clean energy is delivering record levels of investment, particularly in renewables and other new technologies.
you recognised the problem that you call carbon leakage.
i call it driving energy-intensive businesses offshore, and you have decided to give these industries free allowances to redress the balance, but you have created your own catch—22: if you give them enough allowances to stay competitive you have no hope of achieving emissions targets, but to achieve your emissions targets you cannot give them enough allowances.
you face a stark choice between competitiveness and emissions targets.
you are not cutting emissions; you are merely driving them offshore.
we face competition from china with massive cheap coal-fired generation, and from the us where donald trump promises to make low-cost energy a main driver of the us economy.
a few years ago, our new president, mr tajani, said that our energy policies were creating ‘an industrial massacre in europe’.
mr president, we need energy.
but energy has a cost.
the eu wants a low—carbon secure and competitive economy; they have created this framework strategy for a resilient europe with a forward—looking climate change policy.
this sounds positive, optimistic, an energy utopia – but it is not the reality people will live in, is it?
eu policy will control the sources, flow, distribution, delivery and billing of the whole of the european energy industry.
it will suppress national governments’ abilities to provide the best energy services and prices for their people.
of course, the eu must maintain pressure on the gabonese authorities to prevent a climate of impunity.
its focus is to ensure supermarkets’ ability to continue to use bananas as a loss leader, so that their price does not reflect their true environmental cost.
the greens’ priority for trade is to ensure a comfortable life for all, without wasting energy and resources.
this so-called safeguard regulation dismisses social and ecological aspects of production, and should leave a bitter taste in the mouths of the millions of european consumers who choose a banana before other locally grown fruit.
– mr president, tonight we debate sustainability, and i see by the numbers tonight the importance this european parliament puts on the jobs of uk fishermen.
the common fisheries policy does not know the meaning of the word ‘sustainability’.
then it can be: hello, real sustainability.
– mr president, adoption is a wonderful alternative for otherwise unwanted children, or a child that’s left in an unsafe environment.
i believe that we all should be encouraging families to be strong and cohesive units, which is the best environment for bringing up a child, surely.
not content, though, with inflicting this ecological damage on waters surrounding the british isles, the north atlantic and the mediterranean, the european union has established arrangements to conduct the same activities in the waters beyond its jurisdiction.
i should also again give thanks to the former chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, mr la via, whose wise counsel at various points stopped me going slightly off the rails, which was very helpful.
but what i do stress is as you pull out each block, just remember: if that tower topples, we have to rebuild it and we will rebuild it in a much less favourable climate, literally, and will also rebuild it in a much more challenging way.
it is important, i suspect, for all of us here; each of us has particular constituencies and constituency issues, but nonetheless we must come together to deliver what is required for the climate and indeed for the european union.
– mr president, in the ecr we are firm proponents of market-based mechanisms and there are many positive elements in the agreement reached by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
if we are serious about reducing greenhouse gases, then the policy framework must be evidence-based and encourage industry to invest in low-carbon technology.
moving the goalposts or, at worst, scoring an own goal, will not do any good in lowering emissions in the long run.
we are particularly concerned about the late inclusion of a border-adjustment mechanism, added days before the vote in the environment committee, with no study on its impacts or costs.
for the ecr, this is not the way to protect against carbon leakage.
let us just remind ourselves about the european union’s emissions trading system and what it has brought about.
recognised as being one of the most flawed policy initiatives in history, since 2005 it has been a shameful litany of mismanagement, hidden subsidies, lobby power, environmental degradation, job losses, theft and fraud.
creating an impetus for unemployment and exporting pollution are hardly two aspects that this organisation, the european union, ought to be proud of.
the emissions trading system (ets) is not working well right now: that is the first point.
i too was in marrakech for the climate change talks.
this report is a strong call to the commission and member states to pursue an ambitious mental health and well—being strategy, which includes a psychosocial approach, taking into account the social, cultural and environmental factors that determine and affect mental health.
given the unprecedented steps to accelerate settlement construction whilst destruction of eu humanitarian assistance continues unabated, do you not think that holding a meeting in this sort of climate is likely to be perceived by the israeli government as supportive of the current status quo?
– mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on education and culture i would like to recall that the eu and its member states must refocus the delivery of the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, paying more attention to social education and employment targets, as well as properly recognise the contribution of culture in reaching the so-called aaa for the development and well-being of individuals and societies.
it is a lot as well about its distribution, whether it is inclusive, whether it is actually reducing those gaps that we have, as well, of course, as its environmental effect.
the first reads, ‘the parties shall implement this agreement based on shared values, the principles of dialogue, mutual respect, equal partnership, multilateralism, consensus and respect for international law.’ the second extract reads, ‘recognising that sustainable globalisation and greater prosperity can only be achieved through an open world economy based on market principles, effective regulations and strong global institutions [...]’.
whilst my main area of concern, as rapporteur, is the spa, it is important that we consider this alongside ceta and the wider international political climate in which we now find ourselves.
on how to mitigate the effects of climate change, canada and the european union will have to look at this very carefully, particularly with the risk of the melting of the ice sheets in the high north and the increased migratory pressures from sub—saharan africa impacting on the eu with climate change, a very important common shared challenge.
president trump’s repeated threats to pull america out of the paris climate change agreement means an additional threat to global stability which the eu, together with canada, will have to face together.
we should address the concerns of both canadians and citizens of eu countries who accuse each other of having lower environmental and labour standards.
it is good for that, and all of this comes without actually selling out in terms of workers’ rights, or social or environmental protection.
it commits our partners to multilateral environment agreements at a time when trump threatens the paris accord, a vital thing.
fighting international crime and terrorism, tackling climate change and ensuring continued space for economic growth and job creation in an era of globalisation and technological change are all issues that cross borders, and they can only be tackled by democracies like canada and the eu member states working together.
mr president, policies on energy and emissions are areas where countries need to work together.
carbon emissions are a real danger and the eu emissions trading system (ets) has not worked.
this is a good review: it focuses on those industries which produce the most emissions and it has simplified the rules for smaller companies.
however, it is important that europe remains a place in which it is attractive for industry to be located, and we must not simply export our energy-intensive sectors to other parts of the world.
here today we have a policy that says we want to try and reduce emissions and bring low-carbon investments to europe, but the law of unintended consequences is very clear, in a very small rule that you heard about in this chamber today from members from poland to ireland to greece and now the united kingdom: the border adjustment mechanism will simply drive jobs out of the united kingdom and across europe.
– well actually, as a thatcherite and reaganite conservative, yes, i do want to conserve money – but money is being spent, wrongly, especially the waste that goes on in this place.
we will not be successful in combating terrorism unless we can harness the idealism, creativity and energy of young people and others who feel disenfranchised.
on the details of this report, i believe that we as meps have a duty to promote the reduction and minimisation of environmental damage done by aviation and to encourage a shift to other, more sustainable forms of transport where appropriate.
– mr president, the explanatory statement for this proposal says its objectives are secure, affordable and sustainable energy.
the highly respected economist magazine currently runs a front—page story entitled ‘clean energy’s dirty secret’.
it says we have created regulatory and subsidy structures that militate against energy infrastructure investment and threaten security of supply.
i quote: ‘green energy is eating its own tail’.
this presents a serious threat to our environment and may have a permanent consequence on our biodiversity.
it was with these considerations in mind that i proposed to the committee on international trade (inta) to draft an own-initiative report on the eu common commercial policy in the context of wildlife sustainability, because trade policy can, and should, address wildlife conservation, support sustainable development and environmental protection.
my report looks at the challenges we face and gives practical solutions on effective use of the resources available, with better implementation of our current policies giving tangible and comprehensive recommendations to the commission on how trade and environmental policies can work together to tackle illegal wildlife trade inside the eu and globally.
instead, the priority should be the implementation of the present framework in the context of the global trade and environmental regimes, such as the wto, cites, the wco, the undp and the oecd.
and as part of the eu’s ongoing commitment to sustainable development, our trade policy must strive for solid and detailed sustainable development chapters in its future trade agreements, similar to the one included in the eu-vietnam fta.
this agreement will help improve protection of human health and the environment from exposure to mercury.
there are updated provisions regarding the scope of exports and imports and the storage of mercury waste.
we also share the objective of protecting human health and global environment from the release of mercury and its compounds by diminishing and controlling human-induced releases to air, water and land.
a recommitment from the commission to the development of a european charter for sustainable and responsible tourism would also be hugely beneficial.
we are told that an eu circular economy is an efficient economic model that ensures that the environment receives adequate protection, at the same time as promoting reindustrialisation and competitiveness in europe.
firstly, on the levels of the waste targets, i will be supporting a return to the commission targets.
epr has an important role to play in improving environmental delivery, but the proposal to include minimum operating conditions is too prescriptive.
did you not find that, in fact, there was more waste and more regulation?
in my work as a shadow rapporteur on the packaging and packaging waste directive, i had two objectives: a binding target on marine waste and a minimum level of recycled plastic in new packaging.
the package recognises the scale of action that is needed to meet the joint challenges of achieving our climate change commitments, conserving our resources, and also beginning to address the disastrous levels of plastics in our environment, particularly in our rivers, seas and oceans.
madam president, it is universally acknowledged that the european union’s common fisheries policy has created enormous environmental and economic damage: discards, overfishing, plummeting fish stocks and thousands of jobs lost.
this resolution focuses on the politically motivated arrest of an outspoken critic of the president, but her situation is only a small part of the escalating instability and the climate of fear in the philippines, motivated by the president’s policies.
the process involved a sustainable palm oil round table which involved growers, cooperatives, processers, traders, development ngos, environment ngos and social ngos.
to conclude, the european union signed up to the un paris agreement on climate change and this report helps deliver the eu’s obligations and should be supported by members of parliament.
you do not know which logo or scheme to trust when seeking to make a sustainable consumption choice.
the main growers, most particularly in south-east asia, the indonesian and malaysian growers, have not reached an agreement on what level of sustainability there should be and how it should be certificated.
coupled with illegal logging, we are witnessing an ecological disaster, as these wildernesses are being sacrificed on the altar of anthropogenic global warming climate change.
moreover, given the increasingly interdependent nature of the global environment such a closed-minded approach would be counter-productive and damaging at a much broader level.
but we cannot waste this unique opportunity now to ensure that we never have another repeat of a scandal like dieselgate.
in the aftermath of the diesel emissions scandal the european commission made new legislative proposals to ensure that car manufacturers comply with eu safety, environmental and production requirements.
those of us working on air quality have known for some time about the problems with real driving emissions.
they long ago gave up any trust in the fuel consumption claims that are made by manufacturers, and now they know that the emissions claims are wrong as well.
the fines will go into a fund that will help consumers and the environment.
i would also remind everyone that type-approval is not just about emissions.
it is robust, good for consumers, good for the environment and fair for industry.
just how easy it was for volkswagen to manipulate the emissions testing certainly raised many questions and concerns.
to take global action on the production of palm oil and mitigate the environmental consequences, it is vital that international commitments are honoured, in particular the united nations forum on forests, the united nations convention on biological biodiversity, the new york declaration on forests and the sustainable development goal to halt deforestation by 2020. the united kingdom has a record of doing, not just saying, and with brexit i trust this will set an international example for the remaining 27 member states.
the people i represent are horrified that car manufacturers have been cheating on emissions tests, and they demand strong action from the european parliament to stand up to this corporate abuse of power.
i am disappointed that the green proposal for an independent agency to regulate and monitor emissions was not passed.
air pollution is responsible for 40 000 deaths a year in the uk and 300 every year in the city of bristol, and the issue has not been taken seriously enough.
europe’s neighbours are seeing a rapid population increase, a lack of job creation and, in africa in particular, are increasingly troubled by future effects of climate change.
when there is no proper control, many question the sustainability of a system that effectively hinders the low-paid through the suppression of wages in the unskilled labour market.
today, whether fleeing conflict, famine or climate chaos, no one wants to risk their lives at sea or on land in search of safety and stability.
my part in this review has been to focus on the horizon 2020 programme which funds cutting-edge scientific research and facilitates the largest research area in the world, and to focus on cef, the connecting europe facility, which develops better digital, transport and energy connections for eu citizens, the arteries of our modern world.
the budget funds research into rare diseases, into cancers, into new energy sources – our future world will be shaped by this funding.
citizens across europe are now at risk of the economic consequences of a bad deal – or even worse, no deal at all – and people in all 28 countries will suffer if brexit means competition on low wages, lax environmental standards and scaled back rights for workers and consumers.
we put in place conditionalities to make sure we promote policies on growth, the environment, gender equality and many other things.
they discussed the question of the entire value chain in the textile industry and how to make it more sustainable and equitable.
and secondly, we want to work with the member states to reach out to the partner countries, to work with them to ensure that their fellow citizens - the people there - have decent and sustainable jobs, which will also increasingly enable them to earn a living for themselves and their families.
my colleague mimica also presented today the working paper on sustainable value creation in the clothing industry.
the promotion of sustainable value creation is a contribution, but an essential contribution, to the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
it is and remains our stated objective to work towards sustainable value chains in the textile industry.
this requires that we involve all relevant internal and external policy areas, and that we consider the economic, social and environmental implications.
the textile industry is often affected by specific economic, social and environmental challenges worldwide, but also in europe, such as low wages, long working hours, forced labour, often involving child labour, the lack of genuinely fair labour contracts, the lack of enforcement of collective rights or freedom of association, low safety and workplace standards, and poor health protection at the workplace, such as: the textile sector is a major contributor to economic growth and employment.
all in all, we have to make a big push - we are not where we want to be, but we are thoughtful, we are sustainable, and your report encourages us to continue our work through a variety of services with a variety of partners in the interests of human dignity, of justice and with the aim of making what we all remember today on this fourth anniversary as avoidable as possible for the future.
i have been to what remains of the rana plaza site, met survivors, seen the work of the accord, the alliance and the sustainability compact there, argued with brands and manufacturers about compensation, and with the government about how we actually entrench and embed high labour standards.
madam president, the diversity of learning structures and educational pathways represents an opportunity for sustainable economic development as well as for personal development of learners and citizens.
food waste is an issue which is very close to my heart, not only because of my personal history, but also because food waste is unethical and immoral.
i hope i am able to show, via my numerous interventions and participation in events throughout the european union and beyond, that the commission is fully committed to leading the european union’s efforts to fight food losses and waste from farm to fork and to make solid progress towards achieving the united nations sustainable development goal of halving food waste by 2030. efforts to prevent food waste will not only increase resource efficiency, but will also reduce unnecessary pressure on the environment, reduce costs and really enable surplus food to be redistributed as a priority to those in need.
indeed, tackling food waste is one of the examples with a strong social aspect where successful businesses can benefit our people.
i found the report very comprehensive and i welcomed the holistic view taken in the analysis and proposals put forward to prevent food waste and, more generally, to strengthen the resource efficiency of the food supply chain, including the management of water as a key strategic resource of the agri—food industry.
i can assure honourable members that i, together with my fellow commissioner, will closely analyse your requests for action in the areas of environmental protection, agricultural policies, fisheries, finance, education and communication – to name just a few.
i am also glad that the report follows the guiding principle of all commission action on food waste, which is that food safety and the protection of both human and animal health remain our absolute priority and shall not be undermined or compromised in any way.
the first commitment was already achieved when the commission launched, in november 2016, a multi—stakeholder forum dedicated to food waste prevention, the european union platform on food losses and food waste.
the platform brings together both public and private interests, including member states, stakeholders and international organisations, to spearhead european union efforts to tackle food waste.
at the first meeting of the platform, members welcomed the establishment of this unique forum, integrating all players as a means of helping all actors to design ways of eliminating food waste from our food systems.
the platform is also a forum to help us deliver our next commitment, namely to elaborate a methodology to enable member states and actors in the food value chain to quantify food waste in a consistent and comparable manner and to adopt, in 2017, eu guidelines to clarify how relevant provisions on eu legislation apply to food donation and to remove barriers, be they regulatory or operational, which hinder the donation of safe, edible food.
should any changes be proposed in future, we would need to ensure that these, first, meet consumer information needs, second, can indeed make a contribution to food waste reduction, and – most importantly – third, would not put consumer safety at risk.
– madam president, there are obviously huge economic and environmental and social costs to food waste.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety was of course the lead committee on this file but i felt it was extremely important that the committee on agriculture and rural development had a say also.
in putting together the committee on agriculture and rural development’s opinion on the report i want to concentrate on farm waste and how producers can be assisted in tackling it.
finding innovative solutions to the problem of food waste from the farm to the supermarket shelf, to the consumer is in everyone’s benefit.
firstly it goes without saying that no farmer wants to produce waste food.
farmer-led initiatives can and have offered viable economic solutions and provide value for products which might otherwise go to waste as well as socially innovative projects such as gleaning and offering food that might otherwise go to waste to food banks.
in europe we import 40 million tonnes of feed yet we waste 89 million tonnes of food.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank my shadow rapporteurs on the committee on agriculture and rural development and can i also congratulate the rapporteur on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, ms borzan, on her excellent report.
– mr president, the data on food waste in european union are quite astonishing.
consequently, i concur that such waste is an issue of great importance, affecting both national and global food security.
all uk citizens who have food waste caddies are very familiar with this initiative and obviously they will be watching, i hope, all of the developments that take place in terms of the debate this evening and the voting this week on this.
i think the negative that really needs to be addressed and voiced this evening is this issue again of european union control on every aspect of the food chain, from animal health and welfare, packaging, crop selection, transport, consumption and waste disposal, and it is all about performance targets and does not address local issues.
and they always kind of look at you a little bit blankly because clearly the use of food waste in animal feed would be a good move forward.
the proposal for revising the waste framework directive requires member states to reduce food waste at each stage of the food supply chain, monitor food waste level and report back on the progress made in preventing food waste.
we have identified the most efficient actions to take at eu level to combat food waste and want to remain truly ambitious.
given the multifaceted nature of food waste prevention, we have sought to engage both with private actors and public entities through all relevant fora, including expert groups with member states and various consultative groups with stakeholder participation.
this inclusive approach resulted in the integrated action plan to tackle food waste adopted by the commission as part of the circular economy package in 2015. moving forward, the commission will continue to strengthen its supporting efforts in the european union member states, notably through the european union platform on food losses and food waste, bringing together both public and private interests.
launched in 2016, the platform will support all actors in defining measures needed to prevent food waste, share best practices and evaluate progress made over time.
i would like to strengthen, of course – some mentioned mandatory targets for food waste reduction.
but the united nations sustainable development goals to halve global per capita food waste by 2030 is our food waste target, so no additional aspirational target was deemed necessary.
we need to measure food waste consistently before binding targets can be proposed at eu level.
the commission’s proposal for revising the waste framework directive requires member states to measure food waste once again and to use indicators and targets set at national level to monitor progress in food waste prevention.
some mentioned definition of food waste.
food and waste are already defined in the eu regulatory framework, and an additional legal definition of food waste is not necessary.
what really matters is a clear description of the material which constitutes food waste at each stage of the food supply chain.
the commission is therefore elaborating a methodology that will illustrate, in the light of eu definition of food and waste, which material may be quantified and measured as food waste, taking into account, amongst others, exemptions as defined in the waste framework directive, and the definition proposed by the european parliament will be further discussed internally within the commission and with parliament and member states to ensure a satisfactory outcome.
this study will investigate how date marking is utilised by food business operators and by regulatory authorities and possibly-related impact on food waste.
any future changes to eu rules must meet consumer information needs, ensure food safety and make a meaningful contribution to food waste.
we will continue to work together with our partners in the member states and stakeholders towards our common goals, remove needless waste of food, and save our resources.
i am very happy to present this report – in autumn, for example – to our food waste platform and discuss those issues in more detail.
mr president, the commission paper on harnessing globalisation says that the eu must pursue a progressive trade and investment agenda which not only opens markets but enhances governance on issues like human rights, working conditions and environmental protection.
mr president, i have visited kenya twice in the past few months, meeting eu officials and the british embassy, and i know the resolution is right to emphasise the impact of climate change in the east africa region and the human displacement and famine it has caused, in combination with the enduring conflict and human rights abuses.
it simply stood back and created a climate where the laws were enforced and where regulations were friendly.
following the commission’s white paper entitled ‘roadmap to a single european transport area’, with its view of a sustainable mobility, here we are again seeing a one—size—fits—all policy, a vision of harmonisation of transport for all member states.
the safety of road users and the environmental impact of fossil fuels needs to be addressed, but the present situation is a knee-jerk reaction that many cannot afford or have the facility to accommodate.
the european union wants to intervene in the road transport sector, in the name of climate action, to control the sector and thereby further erode member states’ sovereignty, and then to tax it dry.
these proposals are even more ridiculous when one considers the dieselgate scandal, when the eu rules were not enforced and went unnoticed for years, resulting in an environmental scandal.
firstly, that free trade agreements do improve trade and they do create jobs here in europe, but secondly, free trade agreements that have obligations on social environmental standards are only really going to mean anything if those standards can be enforced separately from the wider trade agreement.
if they are simply the obligatory part of the agreement, but have no sanctions attached to them, they are not going to be effective, so what we have to argue for in future trade agreements is that the sustainable development chapter itself should be subject to sanctions.
what we will do tomorrow, as mr lange referred to, is the follow-up meeting of the high—level sustainability compact group.
the commission has now adopted your new sustainable garment value chains initiative.
mr president, i would also like to thank the commissioner for her ongoing interest and commitment to the issue of the ready-made garment sector, not least in bangladesh, and i am speaking here in my role as chair of parliament’s delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, and we have followed the sustainability compact from the start.
it is crucial that future cohesion policy is in line with sustainable development goals encompassing a broad range of objectives, not only oriented towards economic growth but promoting sustainable development of societies and individual and collective wellbeing of communities.
this resolution also does not establish sufficiently strong protections on tackling climate change and air pollution.
co2 emissions across the transport sector need to be addressed.
we need one because we have to find a way for the eu to implement the sustainable development goals.
we need one because we need a recommitment by the member states today to tackle global poverty, and i think we need one most of all, today of all days, because we are hearing that donald trump will pull out of the paris agreement on climate change.
that is a blow to sustainable development goals, a blow to what we want in europe.
(mr finch declined to take a blue-card question from ms grapini)
mr president, the european union has been a global leader in sustainable development and it is right for parliament, the commission and the council to now formulate a new position for this changing world.
coherence also requires taking into account the contribution of culture as a pillar of sustainable economic, social and human development and of peace and resilience building.
it is tragic to see my country, the uk, wasting its time with the chaos of brexit while the eu continues to work towards a more prosperous sustainable future for all of us.
when i started to look at this, it made me realise how far we have come on this issue of sustainable oceans, and yet also how far we still have to go.
we have to go forwards when it comes to sustainable development.
perhaps it’s precisely because of what they know about the eu’s regulatory environment that they’re shifting.
it is through this programme we can diagnose, treat and cure illnesses and diseases or find affordable, sustainable ways of meeting our energy needs.
by expressing the desire to waste more taxpayers’ money on dead-end projects and pro-eu political soundbites.
– mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues and the rapporteur for their hard work and cooperation on this energy labelling file.
these new labels will prove provide clarity to consumers and will enable them to make more energy efficient and cost efficient choices.
the european union has hardly covered itself in glory with respect to energy efficiency regulation.
– mr president, the most powerful signal that the european parliament can give is that it is serious about tackling climate change and is taking real action implementing the paris agreement by passing the climate action regulation tomorrow.
it deals with almost two-thirds of all greenhouse gases emitted across the eu.
however, last week president trump announced that he would withdraw the united states from the paris climate change agreement.
even though we know that many us states, cities and businesses are continuing or even scaling-up climate action and green investment.
so, with or without trump, climate action and green investment under the paris agreement must move ahead.
i am also grateful for the strong support the report received in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and for the further work done ahead of the plenary to build an even stronger compromise.
as a result of this work, alde, the epp and ecr groups agreed to table a set of joint amendments that will do three things: firstly, maintain the strength and emissions trajectory adopted by the envi committee.
secondly, it will increase the optional use of forest credits from 119 million to 280 million tons, which will help build the business case for forest-based climate measures.
in the long term, our forests are crucial to build the zero-carbon economy.
at the same time, we must maintain a strong driver for energy efficient and clean transport.
thirdly, we will give better support to lower—income member states that have reduced their emissions significantly in earlier years.
farming is also covered in this regulation, and we will include special support for climate—efficient farmers.
because of the politically balanced agreement reached and the strong signal the climate action regulation will give to the international community, i urge you all therefore to back the report in full, which includes the compromise package negotiated ahead of the plenary vote.
this time the european commission proposal, climate action regulation implementing the paris agreement, covers all sectors that currently fall outside the eu emission trading system, with particular regard to transport, waste, environment and agriculture.
the aim of this proposal is to deliver, in the relevant sectors, 30% emissions reductions by 2030 compared to 2005 levels.
consistent with these goals, the paris agreement also requires that zero net emissions must be achieved in the second half of this century.
in addition, in 2009, the eu adopted its objective of 80—95% greenhouse gas emission reductions by 2050. the eu’s climate and energy policies keep perpetuating the same misguided path, continuing to be the solo leader in the futile battle against climate change, whereas the usa and others are acting in favour of progress and prosperity.
the sole effect that this huge burden of climate regulation is going to have is to exacerbate the crisis already being experienced by european union industries that are forced to move offshore, taking their emissions and their jobs with them.
my party and i oppose the eu climate and energy policy.
we reject climate hysteria and believe that the eu should accept that the paris agreement is close to its end.
i would like to thank the commission for its commitment to driving down co2 emissions.
i heard earlier that there are concerns about how we can get to 2050. well, nobody has ever said that tackling climate change is going to be easy, but it has to be done.
they deny climate change, they even deny their existence as an effective political party in the uk, and have nearly been wiped out.
i think everybody here agrees that climate change is a real issue and one on which action must be effected.
a strong vote from this parliament tomorrow will send a message to businesses, to farmers, to industry, to consumers, and to voters and the young people of europe that we are serious about climate change.
in the second case, the court of justice defined information on emissions into the environment with regard to studies submitted for active substances in plant protection and biocidal products.
furthermore, specifically in relation to alternatives to chemical herbicides, a horizon 2020 initiative, supported by an eu contribution of eur 7 million, is currently looking at strategies, tools and technologies for sustainable weed management.
with regard to sustainable plant protection more specifically, the need to find alternatives to traditional chemical solutions is also reflected in the sustainable use of pesticides directive, which aims at reducing the risks and impacts of pesticide use on human health and the environment, and at promoting the use of integrated pest management and of alternative approaches or techniques such as non-chemical alternatives to pesticides.
however, as much as i would like to see herbicides phased out completely, realistically this is not possible, especially in the uk where we have a very mild, damp climate which is conducive to weed growth.
if the decision to ban this is to protect the environment, i am for it – but not based on the flawed information we have heard.
mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that we are asking farmers to meet the challenge of climate change and to provide a growing world population with a reliable food supply.
mr president, i have listened very intently to this debate, and i just want to say that of course we all want a healthy countryside and a good environment for us all to live in; so do our farmers.
it is made even more contemptible by the fact that we now know that he has decided that climate change is real.
he is not even pretending any more that he does not believe in climate change.
and given the modest commitments that the us is being asked to make – let us face it, for many people what the us is being asked under paris is actually still way underperforming europe and many of the member states in europe – it seems even more the case that ‘the donald’ should be asked exactly where he gets his information and his advice from, because with higher per capita emissions than the world average, the us has a moral duty to significantly reduce its emissions and ensure that global average temperatures remain below 2 degrees c. maybe we should say that the next human-caused climate disasters should be called hurricane donald, super drought pruitt, or tropical cycle bannon, because that is going to be his legacy.
– mr president, president trump is not the only threat to our global environment and the beautiful island states such as yours, president heine, and thank you for coming to talk to us.
climate change sceptics in the uk also threaten european global protection.
the british elections delivered a disastrous result for our prime minister, and ms may battles on – she has appointed a new environment secretary, mr michael gove.
when he was education secretary, gove wanted to get climate change off the school curriculums.
he has voted 12 times against measures to prevent climate change, including opposing limits on greenhouse gas emissions.
he has opposed refitting homes to stop carbon loss.
to quote a past colleague of this house, caroline lucas, who is now an mp: ‘michael gove is an environmental disaster waiting to happen’.
colleagues, please be tough during the brexit negotiations when it comes to the environment, as you will be with mr trump.
climate deniers like gove need to know they have international treaty commitments that they cannot evade.
he will try to slip and slide on environmental agreements.
but if we do, the uk, just like the us, must fulfil its international environmental obligations.
environmental challenges do not stop at borders.
our environment, our planet, is interlinked, especially when it comes to the most vulnerable states on the planet.
madam president, may i, from this hemicycle, send congratulations to president trump for his wisdom and courage in pulling america out of the climate agreement in paris and resisting the pressure from the green lobby, of which we have heard so much today.
in fact, he has given america a huge competitive advantage in terms of industry and exports, which will be damaging to europe if we cling to the outmoded climate passion that we have heard in this hemicycle.
some colleagues will be familiar with the peer-reviewed paper published recently by danish statistician bjørn lomborg, in which he estimates the cost of paris at usd 100 billion by the end of the century, when the impact on climate will be 0.17 °c.
madam president, last month colleagues from across six nations this side of the house wrote to president trump, urging him to pull out of the paris climate agreement – and he did.
mr president, the panama papers have given rise to many scandals and corruption, and it is quite right that we create laws to prevent such waste and deal with those scandals.
so why doesn’t the commission deal with the biggest scandals of all: the waste of the european union of the taxpayers of europe?
thank goodness we in britain are going to leave the european union, so that we don’t have to deal with those costs and waste anymore.
let us remember that the aim of the digital single market is to help european companies to scale up in the same way that american companies do: an innovation—friendly environment.
if we want to address climate change and be more sustainable as a society, we need to tackle this use-and-dispose culture which runs counter to our commitments to the environment.
if we can achieve a more sustainable base system for the sale of consumer goods across the eu we can start to realise the circular economy, creating new business models and supporting eu innovation and start-ups whilst protecting our environment.
this must surely be a win-win for consumers and the environment.
it is important that we pursue greater value for money for reliable and durable products and that we benefit companies and the wider society by reducing waste.
we face many social and environmental difficulties, as has been outlined by commissioner timmermans, but i want to focus on the enormous economic challenges we face: competitiveness, the loss of jobs to overseas employers, low growth rates, eurozone stagnation.
if we can get that right, so many of our other political, social and environmental problems will be easier to overcome.
thirdly, there is the waste, mismanagement and fraud within the eu budget – and we still do not really know, with eu funded projects, whether they have actually added enough value to be worth the money that has been spent on them.
and fifthly, of course, the waste in administration, which is so well known anyway.
the paris climate change agreement is a bad business deal, and trump gets that because he is a businessman and he is right.
so the european fund for sustainable development can be part of the beginning of a new plan for africa.
– mr president, the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) is the flagship policy of the eu’s external investment plan, launched last year in response partly to the migration crisis.
high population growth across africa without the employment opportunities to match is a growing problem, likely to be made worse by the effects of climate change as time goes on.
but i am very disappointed that there were not more committees contributing to this process, because we have had many meps put forward their expertise, but we need a full breadth of committees involved in this process, because a key ask of this report is that the commission use all of its departments and instil the un sustainable development goals throughout all of the commission’s departments.
imagine if you will, a world where no child is born into hunger, where no child is born into poverty, where access to health care and clean water – some of the things you might take for granted – are available to everyone, where well-paid jobs, decent jobs, don’t come at the expense of the environment, and where we all act together as stewards, not owners, of this planet, and that we can forward it to the next generation.
the goals defined through the un’s 17 sustainable development goals will achieve this if we put the necessary measures into practice.
i am very grateful to the commission for its initial assessment of progress, again but i have to be perfectly honest, it is not enough to look at existing work and then backfit it into the 17 un sustainable development goals.
when we conduct our trade, when we develop shared energy networks, when we draw up financing rules, when we draw up strategies for transportation, when we evaluate education, when we drive forward change at a local, city, regional, national and european level we must always ask ourselves: ‘are we doing enough and is what we are doing delivering the un’s sustainable development goals?’ we and our generation are running out of excuses, and we don’t have the excuse of previous generations of ignorance.
we need to push our member states to do more, we need to be collecting data from our member states, finding out if they – as well as the eu institutions – are meeting their targets, and then we need to be pushing to make sure the eu does deliver on the 2030 agenda, a little bit in the same way as we do on the climate change targets.
mr president, culture is an important driver for behavioural change through the creation of new lifestyles and sustainable development paradigms.
this approach must be community based or locally rooted and it implies finding a local understanding of sustainable development.
proper recognition must be given to the mediating and facilitating role of culture, which helps us find a balance between the competing needs of the economic, social and environmental goals of sustainability.
culture is therefore a driver for sustainable growth and innovation, urban regeneration and rural and regional sustainable development, as well as for social cohesion and individual and collective well-being.
with determination and creativity we can make our cities, towns and villages more liveable, more sustainable and more inclusive, and promote innovative economic models which are fairer, cooperative and put people and the planet first.
it is only through this dialogue, through this process of conversation, that we will get to a stage where industry and businesses and citizens and ngos and all of us can work together for that sustainable future.
we emit 19 000 tons of carbon dioxide unnecessarily, and we waste thousands of hours of time of officials, our staff and members.
it wastes money, and if you care about it, it wastes co2 emissions.
i think of the common fisheries policy, i think of the emissions trading scheme.
but i wonder whether we might not be wiser now to try to find a more sustainable and permanent deal, whereby we recognise turkey as a strategic partner and ally, and recognise the value of a free market with turkey, but drop the idea of political integration.
– mr president, aviation accounts for approximately 2.1% of global co2 emissions.
in the eu, direct co2 emissions from aviation account for approximately 3% of the total.
with the anticipated growth in air traffic, emissions in 2050 are expected to be seven to ten times higher than in 1990. this is according to the international civil aviation organization (icao) and their projections.
in this parliament we have taken the view that we must reduce the carbon impact of the growth in air travel.
this represents an unprecedented level of commitment from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and we were very pleased to see an agreement in october 2016 to establish an offsetting system to deliver carbon neutral growth in the aviation sector.
as a consequence, the commission was required to adopt a proposal for a regulation amending the 2003 emissions trading system (ets) directive with respect to aviation and this was presented earlier this year.
this reflects legitimate concern over the gmbm and whether it will deliver on its commitment to ensure carbon neutral growth from 2020. at present, based on the current negotiations within icao – and they are very current and going on as we speak – progress on the offsetting provisions has been painfully slow, with some parties – and i mention china in particular – now objecting to icao’s role in setting the rules for the gmbm.
we must learn from the issues encountered with previous iterations of the legislation and provide the sector with much needed investor certainty as soon as work is completed on the gmbm’s reporting provisions on the transparency and the environmental integrity of the offset registry.
the environment committee’s report also provides for the designation of revenues generated by auctioned allowances to climate finance, aircraft design and fuel-efficient technologies, plus a schedule for the commission’s review report and what it needs to include as a minimum, as well as stressing the need for enhanced transparency of icao’s work in preparing and implementing the scheme.
the committee on transport and tourism (tran) has supported for many years a single, global emissions scheme.
to date, as you know, more than 70 countries have voluntarily signed up to the scheme, which between them emit nearly 90% of aviation co2 emissions worldwide.
to avoid the risk of a future snapback to the eu emissions trading system (ets), which severely damaged our international relations and our aerospace industries, it is vital that our proposed tran text amendments be supported.
as mr liese has just pointed out, we are no longer in a position where we can pretend that climate change isn’t happening.
the truth of course is that many, many sectors are reducing their emissions but it is not the case in the aviation sector.
we cannot just sit back and hope for the best and think that the carbon neutral growth proposed from 2020 will be sufficient.
we have to see what the proposals will look like in concrete terms, and that is what this report does, of course, it gives the commission the criteria to judge the success or otherwise of icao’s process and it does, of course, send a strong signal that we do not want to undermine parliament’s existing stance on phase 4 of the emissions trading system.
there is a broad consensus on the need for climate change action in the aviation sector.
– mr president, in july in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety we voted on lulucf and here the central debate in the committee was around whether we supported the commission’s proposal to have a historic reference level, or we supported a different proposal coming from a minority of countries and a minority of meps for a future reference level.
the s&d supported the commission position and the environment committee went on to support the position of the commission.
so if this amendment goes through, then you take the heart out of what it was that we at the environment committee and at the commission level were trying collectively to achieve.
support the commission proposal which is for an eu-wide climate change response in line with the paris agreement, keeping the word ‘intensity’.
there are two things on the table: there is how we manage our forests, which admittedly is a nation-state responsibility, but there is also how we tackle climate change – and that is an eu-wide responsibility.
you have to decide, ultimately, which is more important: individual country plans for forests, or how we tackle climate change collectively at an eu level.
mr president, last week i was invited by the polish greens to take action against logging in białowieża forest, europe’s oldest forest and a vital carbon sink.
enhancing carbon sinks through sustainable land and forestry management has long been recognised as an important pillar of carbon reduction, but the sloppy carbon accounting put forward in this regulation on land use management leaves a gaping loophole which would allow for increased logging in the eu.
we need the eu to show leadership and take our paris climate targets seriously.
when will we wake up to the stark reality of climate change, start protecting our forests and begin to see the wood for the trees?
the surest way to do that is to ensure energy is readily available to those that need it most – our elderly and vulnerable.
if it means bringing british energy back under british control to reduce prices, then so be it.
outside of it, we have new opportunities where the government, if it wishes to take a golden share or own energy companies, will be free to do so.
i noticed that in your speech you spoke about diversity of energy supplies, and during this whole debate people have been speaking about the concern about keeping control of energy supplies flowing.
would it not be sensible, in that case, for this place not to have ruled out in so many cases further research into nuclear energy or into fracking – which are, after all, the sources of energy of the future, far cheaper, and things we can develop here without having to rely on russia, for example?
this poses major challenges to ensure the enforcement of international standards, whether labour rights or environmental protection – an impossible task to undertake on our own.
we urgently need common rules with our trading partners so that global value chains amount to more than just offshoring and outsourcing of jobs and pollution, hurting both our workers and the planet.
i believe we share a vision for the future based on shared values, including sustainable development.
we face many of the challenges which cristian has already outlined – climate change, terrorism, protecting the rule of law, managing migration and respect for human rights.
for decades now, we have lived in hope that the aviation industry will regulate itself and introduce the limits on emissions our planet so desperately needs.
so far, we have allowed the only industry that is rapidly increasing its carbon emissions to continue posing a catastrophic threat to the climate and that at a time when the caribbean is experiencing the worst ever hurricane season.
within europe, we urgently need to stop aviation’s free ride on the climate by ending their tax breaks and introducing a frequent flyer levy.
outside europe, we need to implement ambitious emissions reduction targets for aviation as soon as possible, because nature is making it very clear that she is not ‘stopping the clock’.
firstly, real driving emissions testing legislation became mandatory for new car models at the start of this month.
we need trust in it and we need it to be sustainable, and we've got to get ahead of the curve and what i've heard today doesn't indicate that we're anywhere near being in that position.
but what concerns me as well is that it has been reported that top eu officials were aware of the vw emissions scandal two years before it broke.
my predecessor, roger helmer, who is somewhat of an expert in this issue, always warned that this attack on car owners, the push towards diesel, even though diesels give out only marginally more co2 emissions than petrol, and this drive was dangerous, and of course it has led to this situation.
eu regulations required a 20% reduction in energy consumption in buildings such as grenfell under the 2020 energy policy.
– mr president, i was rapporteur for this transport and tourism committee opinion on the report by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and i heard from the european disability forum that their number one priority was improved access of transport services for their members, especially in terms of the built environment.
the transport committee adopted my report, which included mandatory improvements to the built environment, but i was disappointed when the internal market committee, the lead committee, did not adopt any of those ideas so, under rule 54, plenary is now being asked to vote on the amendments that the internal market committee ruled out.
this is a waste of taxpayers’ money.
this is a lot of nonsense, and a waste of taxpayers’ money.
their priority: maintaining the status quo of turbo-capitalism, a system that requires perpetual growth and, in varying degrees, climate change denial.
indeed, when my colleague, caroline lucas mp made the link between hurricane irma and climate change to uk minister alan duncan, he said she lacked humanity.
the humane thing to do is to act in the interests of those whose lives are now being torn apart by climate breakdown, especially those living in low-lying territories and in the path of storms; as well as millions of others across the globe, especially those from the poorest communities.
and given the recognition that the labour market is dynamic and future skills needs have to be considered, we believe the report could be strengthened by clear reference to the huge innovation and employment potential of renewable energy sources and green technologies and the skills required for those.
we also want to equip learners with the necessary skills for a more open, sustainable and inclusive society.
it includes the agreed areas of cooperation – environment, agriculture, tourism, health, transport and education – plus it allows for more.
i just hope that in manchester the conservative party starts to say in public what they are all saying to me in private: that she is a waste of space, that she needs to go, and that we need a proper prime minister who says to monsieur barnier ‘okay, here’s a deadline, here’s a date, we work towards that date.
– mr president, the climate and energy package was imposed by the eu with the objective of achieving by 2020 a 20% reduction in co2 emissions compared to 1990 levels.
since then, climate-obsessive politicians have set various objectives towards establishing targets that would involve the final deindustrialisation of europe.
we in ukip disagree with the climate change alarmism which is the cause of the eu's current damaging and counterproductive energy policy.
however, the commission continues to impose never-ending objectives for emissions reductions which invest vast amounts of money into activities that will have little or no effect on climate.
realistically, we can expect global co2 emissions to keep rising for several decades.
the massive exit of eu industry and investment is not only damaging our economies, but by its relocation to countries with lower environmental standards it actually increases co2 emissions.
after brexit the eu will be in charge of its own destiny and we in britain will be able to formulate our own energy policy.
the british people are looking forward to cheaper, reliable and affordable energy.
this ludicrous myth of man-made global warming is going to impact on agriculture.
farmers apparently are going to have to improve the world weather by emitting fewer greenhouse gases.
(applause)
mr president, it’s impossible to talk about climate change without drawing attention to the grave situation in amazonia, brazil, where violence, land grabbing and serious human rights violations are now endemic under michel temer’s corrupt presidency.
the guardians of the environment are the indigenous people and it is them we should be listening to.
i went to amazonia in august – into the heart of the forest – and i bore witness to the unfolding environmental disaster, not just for the indigenous people or for brazil, but for the whole world.
climate change knows no borders.
it is an idea sedulously propagated ever since, not least in the film in which leonardo dicaprio and kate winslet show such impressive post-coital vigour and energy for the rest of the duration of the sinking.
for rural development and environment, 39% of projects have some errors within them but the error rate then is 4.9%, so it masks something that is somewhat bigger.
fourth, we are only talking about money spent outside of the rules and waste of the money within the rules is not counted.
i think it is clear to say that we recognise the positive role that the maldives is playing in terms of their international commitment on climate change and their cooperation with the european union on issues of security, for example.
mr president, we welcome much of this report and the modernisation of the current regulation, but the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has simply gone too far on cadmium levels, which they had competence on.
however, since 80% of the eu market is inorganic fertilisers, we have a responsibility to our citizens and the environment to address maximum levels of contaminants in inorganic fertilisers.
80 mg per kilo with provisions to review would still allow risks to public health and the environment to be managed safely.
– mr president, it is very important that workers can be confident that they are working in a safe environment and that their exposure to carcinogens is very carefully controlled.
the french agency for food, environment, safety and health indicated that 180 000 french workers have been exposed to such substances, which can cause all manner of reproductive issues for both female and male workers.
mr president, today i have voted for those elements of the budget that provide strong support to the programmes, from which the united kingdom benefits most and which contribute to a strong, sustainable and stable europe.
this would mean that investors can access the highest-quality information about what is actually in the box, including to what extent the securitisation contributes to sustainability goals.
so there are three points that stand out for me: a new macroprudential framework to ensure efficient oversight of the securitisation market to detect new bubbles; the creation of a data repository to increase transparency for investors and making it mandatory for insurance to make the information public; and a more sustainable financial system.
firstly, the inclusion of a sanctions-based mechanism on the trade and sustainable development – or tsd – chapter.
why would the australians or the new zealanders make concessions to us on gis, on non-agricultural market access or on sustainable development, which is so important to my group, if we are not even prepared to start talking about agriculture?
– mr president, any operator that is responsible for damage to the environment must be held accountable for their actions.
the report calls for the consideration of a european fund for the remedying of environmental damage.
the money that you waste comes from the member states.
demographic upheaval must be dealt with in the broader context of sustainability.
i would add that, in a fast-changing world characterised by increasing digitisation, robotisation and automation, a future-proof sustainable agenda should be included in a broader reflection on occupational literacy.
mr president, nuclear fusion is the holy grail of energy research, with the potential to deliver the energy equivalent of 10 000 tons of coal from the atoms in this small bottle of water, and with no co2 emissions.
the uk atomic energy authority operates the world’s largest magnetic fusion experiment – the joint european torus (jet) – with scientists coming from all over europe.
i recently met ryanair pilots at stansted airport and they told me of a climate of fear, scared that if they speak out ryanair will move them to a far-flung base – ryanair pilots who are self-employed and do not get sick pay, so they turn up to work ill. what price safety?
a far bigger scandal that nobody has yet addressed is the issue of the big german and french corporates who own, for instance, uk water, energy, waste collection companies, and they make full use all of the so-called tax avoidance and tax evasion mechanisms which this chamber and this parliament finds so unacceptable.
via its energy policies the european union has taken control over the industrial base.
via its climate policies it has taken control over the power and air transport sector, and via this directive and the amendment it is taking full control over the major rivers and canals in the european union.
the directive insists upon training requirements and certification, safety standards, environmental controls, workers’ and women’s rights, and so on.
regarding fishery subsidies, the political commitment to implement the united nations’ sustainable development goals on marine resources has contributed to advance work here, but it remains doubtful whether we can be able to achieve an ambitious outcome.
this resolution proposes, therefore, the employee assistance programme (eap+) model which would plot a course beyond visa liberalisation and free trade agreements (ftas) to potential membership of the customs union, the energy union and perhaps the schengen area.
here, for the first time ever in trade defence rules, social and environmental criteria will also now be assessed, recognising the effect of unfair trade practices on workers and the environment.
mr president, i think mr ponga’s report is an excellent report and it gives us the opportunity to see the summit in abidjan as one which is framed by the sustainable development goals.
it is becoming clearer and clearer we are living beyond the sustainable carrying capacity of the planet.
well-financed natura 2000 sites help create jobs, building green infrastructure with businesses, but again we are not going to meet the 2020 biodiversity targets and we’ll see further deterioration of nature.
(applause) slovakia openly pursues its strategic interest to be at the core of european integration, but i think we should focus on substance, on achieving convincing results, and not lose too much energy in debates on a core or so-called multi-speed europe.
i do not think it is sustainable to limit the eu to the role of a money-raising benefactor after the dust settles, a benefactor trying to rebuild what has been left or destroyed by interventions of unscrupulous players on the international scene.
it gave rather the impression that the entire parliament favoured the co2 method of global warming.
as europeans, we pride ourselves on our high environmental and social standards, but if the commission were serious, they would give legal status to process and production methods, a world trade organisation initiative to ensure that consumers can have information about the environmental and social impacts of the products they are buying.
during the climate talks in bonn, trump’s administration is unapologetically carrying the beacon for dirty coal.
we cannot be pro-climate and pro-trade simultaneously if we are not willing to introduce restrictions on products relying on dirty coal.
madam president, those countries that have escaped the fatal grip of communist soviet union – namely armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine – all deserve our support as they move towards democracy, the rule of law and human rights, as well as support for a market economy, sustainable development and good governance.
– madam president, the environmental implementation review (eir) is an eu instrument designed to monitor the implementation of eu environmental law and policy.
the eir affords the commission a more proactive role, enabling it to monitor the implementation of eu environmental law in member states.
in my opinion, it would be far better to provide a mechanism which would engage with eu citizens directly and which would promote awareness, increase involvement and educate the general public about the environment.
i do not think that a new eu legislative instrument monitoring the application of unilaterally imposed legislation is the answer to the improvement of environmental policies in the eu.
i think all of us welcome the idea of the social pillar, we would just like to see something a bit less flimsy, which will, we hope, be more sustainable.
we also need to look at how we relate tackling inequalities to our commitments on the sustainable development goals because they link with this report in many areas: on gender equality, on decent work, on poverty reduction and many others.
fighting inequalities can boost job creation and sustainable growth.
these areas include fighting terrorism and organised crime, aiding global development, working together at the multilateral level, and combating climate change and supporting sustainable development.
new zealand is a leader in the renewable energy sector and has set itself ambitious targets for renewable energy production.
this emphasis on combating climate change, supporting sustainable development and protecting biodiversity is very clear throughout the parc, and i strongly support this.
as an mep in the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats group (s&d), i welcome that the recent elections in new zealand resulted in a labour-led government, championing an agenda of sustainable development.
whether it concerns the stability in the south china sea that harbours vital shipping routes, combating climate change or addressing terrorist threats, this region is of key strategic importance to the european union and i call upon the high representative, the council and the commission to ensure that this agreement is a stepping stone to advancing our partnerships in the asia-pacific region, where new zealand is an important actor.
the report’s passage through the committee stage and the parliament has also been very smooth, and whilst this is largely due to the widespread support that exists for greater cooperation with new zealand in everything from fighting terrorism to mitigating climate change, clearly it shows that new zealand really is close to us in many ways.
it is important that we assess the political climate as we approach the presidential election, which is due a year from now.
health care and the environment are also critical priorities.
much closer to home, in july this year liverpool fc signed a controversial sponsorship deal with tibet water resources limited that exploits the natural resources of tibet to the detriment of the local population and the environment.
i have a very pragmatic response which is to say that the commission, when negotiating trade deals and when thinking about its economic partnerships, should place human rights and high social and environmental standards right at the heart.
– madam president, so yet again the commission wants further help from member states in meeting energy and climate targets, but what damage is being done trying to meet these artificial targets?
the continued imposition by the commission of never-ending objectives for emissions reductions is forcing the investment of vast amounts of money for activity that will have little or no effect on the climate.
global co2 emissions will probably keep rising unaffected by these measures.
these policies are leading to a massive exit of industry and investment from eu countries to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards and could ultimately increase emissions of co2.
so we are not so much cutting emissions in the eu as exporting them.
indeed, if you include emissions related to goods imported into the eu, emissions in the eu have actually gone up.
heavy industry, including the cement, steel, aluminium and chemical sectors, is moving factories and jobs out of the eu, leading to a leakage of co2 emissions without environmental benefits.
in britain, overdependence on expensive and intermittent renewables has forced up energy prices.
we need to stop this right now and have a balanced energy approach, using methods which are competitive and work with industry, not against it.
madam president, those of us who are involved in the day—to—day parliamentary work on the union’s climate and energy strategy have a clear sight of the extent of the ambition and the complexity of the task in drawing together so many different pieces of legislation into a coherent plan.
that is what energy union means.
we are on track to achieve the 20% renewable energy target in 2020. okay, that is good, but we also have a situation where some member states have vastly over-achieved their renewable energy targets but, if they are generating the rest of their power, including their baseload, from dirty coal, do they deserve a bouquet or a brickbat?
i am very happy that gdp has started to rise without a parallel rise in emissions, a clear rebuttal to those who say that europe is only achieving reductions because of economic downturn.
so much of our ambition will only be delivered if we ensure that funding is available to bridge gaps in the commercialisation of new technology across energy generation, distribution and efficiency.
i agree with the commissioner that a fair and socially just system is necessary, but i firmly believe that dealing with energy poverty should be part of a much broader union strategy for jobs and growth.
it is very important that we do not hold up or compromise high—level strategic planning and decision—making on the energy union through differences of opinion on social policy.
i hope this directive is a first step towards an ambitious eu banking reform, ensuring that the banks become more resilient, less risky and supportive of the sustainable economy.
the overdue changes to the phare regulations, a fundamental pillar of the cfp, will ensure the sustainable, transparent and harmonised regulation of community waters.
it is clear and it gives guidelines; it closes loopholes; and it is a precautionary acceptance of the fact that ecosystem-based protection must extend over borders if it is to be effective.
aviation accounts for approximately 2.1% of global co2 emissions.
in the eu, direct co2 emissions from aviation account for approximately 3% of the total.
this might not sound like very much, but when you think about the anticipated growth in air traffic emissions – by 2050 they are expected to be seven to ten times higher than in 1990, according to icao – these projections are really quite scary.
we must work hard over the next few years to ensure we are on track to reach our climate ambitions under the paris agreement.
in the european parliament, we have taken the view that we must reduce the carbon impact of the growth of air travel.
we all know the history of ‘stop the clock’, so i do not intend to repeat that, but i do want to emphasise the european parliament’s commitment to continuing to work with icao to ensure the next few years deliver what they must: carbon reductions in line with our paris commitments.
whilst welcoming the agreement reached at international level, having an end date on this reflects parliament’s legitimate concerns over the robust development of the gmbm and whether it would deliver on its commitment to ensure carbon-neutral growth from 2020. at present, based on the current negotiations within icao, progress on the offsetting provisions appears to be slow, with some parties – china and india notably – objecting to icao’s role in setting the rules for the gmbm.
with this regulation we are effectively outsourcing all our climate action on aviation to icao, an organisation that routinely makes decisions behind closed doors and does not allow full participation and transparency.
we must learn from the issues encountered with previous iterations of the legislation and provide the sector with much needed investor certainty by completing work on the gmbm’s reporting provisions and the transparency and environmental integrity of its offset registry.
with exemption lapsing on 31 december, we give icao time to introduce the global carbon-offsetting scheme for the sector in 2021.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions.
aviation is the largest, fastest growing sector when it comes to co2 emissions.
the icao scheme, corsia, which wants to commit to carbon neutral growth by 2020, is of course a very welcome step forward.
actually i have a grudging respect and admiration a genuine admiration in fact for icao, the work that they do and the fact that they have adapted to the needs to tackle climate change.
– mr president, less than 1.5% of global carbon dioxide emissions are attributable to international aviation, and i am sceptical that emissions from this sector will increase by 300-700 per cent by 2050 whether action is taken or not.
imposing even more taxes on flights will not deter people from flying, so is unlikely to mitigate any impact on climate change.
however, the rapporteur believes that the commission’s implementation report on the icao’s market mechanism should be in line with the eu’s commitments under the paris agreement and should ensure that all environmental standards of the eu ets are maintained.
to date, the ets, in conjunction with other legislation designed to reduce emissions and increase energy costs, has had a devastating effect on heavy industries within the eu, leaving them unable to compete with countries such as china, india and the usa.
consequently, energy-intensive businesses, such as steel, aluminium and chemicals have closed, exporting jobs and investment out of the eu.
with christmas around the corner, the school holidays and the cold snap sending energy bills up, norwich’s food bank coordinator told me that she expects a spike in demand, with over 1 000 parcels of food needed this december from the city’s food bank.
besides funding projects in the field of energy, efsi is often used to fund semi-governmental infrastructure projects which are harmful to private business.
i voted against it because, in reality, the emissions trading system (ets) has been an absolute, complete failure.
it has got little to do with lowering emissions.
the climate of impunity must end as it only serves to perpetuate the cycle of abuse.
this is set against a wider backdrop of increased global threats such as terrorism, climate change, migratory fluxes, cyber attacks and a less engaged and isolationist america following the election of president trump.
the international atomic energy agency (iaea) has confirmed that iran has kept within all of the technical parameters of the deal, even if at times, these parameters have been pushed to their limits.
we must get on with dealing with trade, the environment, science, digital, security, fishing, agriculture, and all the rest.
mr president, the eurostat assessment of the sustainable development goals (sdg) progress in europe shows that good progress has been registered on the sustainability of cities, cleaner energy and responsible consumption.
as regards ‘polluter pays’, what i do find positive is a move towards zero emissions based on consumer choice, and i stress consumer choice.
this crackdown on environmental activism using national security provisions in the penal code of vietnam is deeply alarming.
the case of nguyen van hoa, who was sentenced to seven years in prison simply for informing his fellow citizens about the impact of an environmental disaster afflicting thousands of people, is deeply worrying.
we will take into account the human rights situation in the country, and we will take into account the labour and environmental standards in the country when we vote on this in this parliament.
as we have heard from many speakers, they persecute bloggers who are sometimes only exposing environmental damage and environmental issues.
mr president, transport represents almost a quarter of europe’s greenhouse gas emissions and is the main cause of air pollution in cities.
this excellent report calls strongly for a change towards more sustainable modes of transport, a deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure and an ambitious action plan for the increasing use of electric vehicles.