with a ten-year implementation horizon, the objective is to improve the efficiency, safety and sustainability of agri-food systems, as well as the management of the public water resource in the mediterranean basin.
the commission mr president, since transport is a vital part of economic and social life, transport and logistics efficiency is necessary to ensure competitiveness, create new jobs and business opportunities, protect the environment and mitigate climate change.
on 24 january, at a meeting of the committee on petitions of which i am a member, i expressed my views and voted in favour of the report by two european union citizens against gold mining in halkidiki, for reasons of public health and the environment.
the commission mr president, vice-president šefčovič the energy union can be a vehicle for creating jobs and for all citizens to benefit, if we can finally put citizens at the heart of this effort.
we need support in the fight against energy poverty, with targeted community funding and with encouragement from the private sector.
increasing the energy efficiency of buildings and homes in the south will give us jobs, will bring profits, will reduce the bill and will benefit the health of citizens, as long as we explain all this directly so that citizens embrace this effort.
the commission mr president, mr šefčovič, the energy union requires equal treatment for all, and at the moment this is not the case with regard to greece.
secondly, there is the famous energy poverty.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the external fleet is managed in a sustainable manner.
since every child has the right to live in an environment of love, affection and care, intercountry adoption should be governed by rules which ensure a minimum of certainty and are applied, if possible, by all countries of the european union.
the commission madam president, the use of conventional pesticides is increasingly being questioned because of the risks they pose to human health and the environment, particularly when these products are not officially authorised or when they are used in a safe manner.
however, farmers need to have a wide variety at their disposal to be able to protect their crops and decide which measure is offered to protect their crops in the most sustainable way.
low-risk biological pesticides could provide an alternative to the use of conventional pesticides and contribute to the achievement of sustainable agriculture.
therefore, in order to ensure human health and environmental protection, the availability of organic pesticides on the market should be increased compared to conventional plant protection products.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the consequences of the crisis.
the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the crisis.
the commission madam president, the environment committee's proposal for a 40% reduction in emissions by 2030 for the european union includes, among other things, the exclusion of cement from the list of carbon leakage risks, as well as the future establishment of a compensation mechanism for importers.
if this proposal is accepted, there will be a major problem in the cement manufacturing and marketing industry, because by introducing strict emission reduction rules in the developed countries of the european union, we are creating carbon leakage, i.e.
s & d) and the madam president, this report is the first step towards meeting the objectives we agreed at cop21 in paris to tackle climate change.
the commission madam president, for competition to function properly in the european union, european industry must not be placed in a situation that is unfavourable to the world, particularly in terms of energy costs.
at a time when the trump administration is threatening to cancel the paris climate agreement and china is relentlessly polluting the environment, the european union, as we saw in the previous discussion, has decided to drastically reduce carbon emissions.
i therefore tabled amendment no 162 in the previous debate and asked that greece be exempted from the obligations of the european emissions trading system under article 10c of directive 2003/87/ec, because 2014 should be taken as the base year, when greece's gdp was less than 60% of the union's.
gender equality is a fundamental right and a basic foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world.
that the troika all these years, with the wrong recipes of austerity and memoranda, has brought greece to this point, that greece's debt is no longer sustainable and the lenders know they'll never get their money and have mortgaged all of greece's assets, does that say anything to you?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy.
in the name of protecting investors and entrepreneurship, the greatest possible freedom of movement for capital, goods and services is guaranteed, by, among other things, crushing small and medium-sized farmers, by abolishing elementary environmental regulations and any minimum levels of food safety and environmental protection that were still provided for until now.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
mr president, greece's main demand for years has been to be exempted from the emissions trading scheme, and this is because countries whose gdp was below 60% until 2013 have been given this exemption, such as bulgaria and poland.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the lack of pension contributions threatens the future of employment and the sustainability of social welfare and insurance systems.
the fact is that we need sustainable jobs for young people after their education or apprenticeship and this must be done immediately.
we must respond with sustainable jobs arising from cohesion fund funds, in cooperation and with co-financing from instruments such as the european fund for strategic investments of the juncker plan.
the coordinator of the national council for the defense of the land, the lake and the national sovereignty, francisca ramírez, is leading the movement of nicaraguan citizens who oppose the creation of the above-mentioned canal, since its cost is estimated at 50 billion dollars and its construction is expected to cause damage to the environment and limit the country's sovereign rights, at the same time displacing 30,000 citizens, mainly poor farmers and members of indigenous populations, whom the government did not even consult before making its decision.
inequalities between men and women have negative consequences for societies themselves and because of these inequalities they are unable to create sustainable development and social cohesion.
mr president, the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements in the energy sector is important.
the 'creative europe' programme is implemented for the period 2014-2020 and aims to strengthen the european creative sector in order to promote sustainable and inclusive growth within the union.
as the illegal trade in wild fauna and flora destroys ecosystems and threatens global biodiversity, the european union had adopted an action plan to combat the illegal trade in wildlife within the union and to strengthen the role of the european union in the global campaign to combat these illegal activities since february 2016. the union action plan to combat wildlife trafficking should contribute to preventing illegal trade, reducing the supply and demand of illegal species and strengthening the implementation of existing rules to combat organised crime.
this report proposes, in contravention of the treaty, to limit the sovereign powers of the member states to conclude transnational energy contracts and to give the european commission the right to evaluate and approve these transnational contracts in advance, in contravention of the treaty of the european union itself, thus giving the european commission a right of veto.
even the indirect release of any quantity into the environment is unacceptable due to its toxicity and long-term duration.
the elimination of mercury use and the inactivation of harmful mercury residues are properly accompanied by criteria for traceability, waste recycling, landfill management and remediation of contaminated sites.
the commission mr president, mercury is a threat to human health and the environment, both in the european union and the rest of the world.
it must reduce emissions from coal-fired power plants in germany, which produce over 5 tons of mercury each year.
measures should also be taken for dental amalgams, batteries, lamps and waste.
we have insurance funds that put their money and should invest in businesses that show social and environmental sensitivity.
it is therefore in the interests of rabbit farmers and the industry as a whole, but also in the interests of consumers, that rabbit farming, in accordance with the european production model, complies with the highest standards of food safety, animal health and welfare and respect for the environment.
the european union must therefore support the rapporteur's recommendation, which rightly denounces the fact that rabbits are kept in cages - this is unacceptable - and must be kept in a protected environment, that is to say, in the conditions of a protected park.
mr president, changes to the even worse of the anti-people directives of the 2008 directive and the corresponding others on waste are being pushed forward on the basis of the european union's strategy for the so-called circular economy.
in greece our people are paying heavy consequences for the environment, for their health and for their pockets from the incorporation of the guidelines of the above directive.
in the context of the circular economy, cement industry groups such as lafarge in the volga start and are licensed as waste incineration plants.
raw materials and fuels at the expense of the environment and the health of the masses.
the only solution in the interest of the people is to demand, through their struggle, in conflict with the monopolies and their power, a single public state body, without any private interference at all levels, complete exemption of the people from kickbacks and fees, policies to reduce waste production in recycling with sorting at source and composting.
mr president, i come from a country which has a long way to go in waste management.
from the linear 'production-consumption-disposal' model, we are moving to a new model of sustainable development with as little waste as possible.
in greece in particular, it is an opportunity to modernise the way we manage waste, improving the environment and creating conditions for growth.
the european society consumes renewable resources 50% faster than it can replace them, and the european union imports six times more raw materials and natural resources than it exports.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
it has environmental benefits and significant energy savings.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its implementation in the member states.
in fact, 49% of bread ends up in the garbage, valuable materials are buried in landfills and only one third of the waste is recycled in the european union.
at the same time, it aims to safeguard the european audiovisual model, which offers free public broadcasting and requires sustainable spectrum resources in the sub-700 mhz band.
to this end, the union budget must be increased dramatically and actions for sustainable development and fairly paid employment financed from it on a much larger scale than is currently the case.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the international capitalist arms race, in which the greek government is particularly active, shows that the clouds of war are thickening with a contest over the control of the energy sources of their transport routes.
what we have today in relation to greece is the aggression of turkey, which violates airspace, violates territorial waters; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
the increasing concentration of carbon dioxide over the last 50 years has increased the surface temperature in the arctic by 2 degrees, and, while the arctic is sounding the alarm, international competition for access to the area and the exploitation of its natural resources is increasing.
the european union's arctic strategy should focus primarily on protecting and preserving the region and promoting sustainable uses of its resources.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the opposition should also recognise the result of the elections and return to parliament, avoiding actions that are boosting the political climate and dividing society.
that is why i propose a sustainable strategy against trafficking.
what does " sustainable " mean ?
the first is the protection of the environment.
the environment is not a present factor, it is a public good and it is a requirement and an obligation to safeguard it for future generations.
finally, it is unacceptable, after what we have learned, that the european commission continues to legitimize some of the illegality by keeping compliance rates so high, effectively doubling the permitted emissions.
it is estimated that the illegal conversion of tropical forests for commercial agriculture produces huge amounts of carbon dioxide, equivalent to 25% of the european union's annual emissions from fossil fuels.
the situation with deforestation, land grabbing, the violation of the rights of indigenous communities is now becoming critical and dangerous, with further damage to the environment.
the european union should therefore take measures to phase out the use of vegetable oils, and in particular palm oil, as a biofuel component by 2020, in order to drastically reduce deforestation and protect the environment.
the european union should take immediate action by carrying out strict checks on cars of all companies throughout europe to protect the environment, health and consumers themselves.
that means concluding the technical agreement yesterday and not tomorrow and concluding the overall package of the agreement in april, mr moscovici, with a balanced budgetary package, as you said, after 2018, with sustainable debt, with realistic primary surpluses and with the return of collective bargaining in greece, because greece is part of europe.
you talked about technical changes in the energy market.
any short-term approach to the situation will only aggravate the problem and lead to further waste of union resources.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
you argue that downplaying all these negative elements that make up the current tragic situation in the country can create a positive climate of consensus and cooperation.
madam president, another report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia - that is its official name, which many people ignore, reinforcing the notion of redemption through a dangerous, dead-end nomenclature - a report which promotes the integration of this country and the western balkans as a whole into the european union and nato in the interests of european monopolies, in order to control the routes for the transport of energy and other products to europe, in competition with capitalist russia, to stop, in accordance with the overall european union plan, the refugee flows of wars, of nato and of the european union.
these developments are part of the intra-bourgeois, intra-imperialist contradictions and rearrangements in the region with rivalries of the united states, the european union, russia, wars in syria and iraq, with the effect that some capitalist states, imperialist centres and monopoly groups gain the upper hand in controlling energy markets, sources and routes.
reforms are essentially the adaptation of our countries to the new globalised environment and must be at the heart of the structural funds' design in order to maximise the return on european taxpayers' money.
i believe that the economic, financial and investment environment in the eu is much better today than it was in 2015 and that part of the credit for that considerable improvement belongs to the eib and its policies.
first, the eib is functioning in a more favourable economic environment than in previous years.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr dijsselbloem and mr moscovici, there is no more time to waste.
the real aim of the international loan sharks is to impoverish the greeks financially, to force them to tolerate their governments handing over to these loan sharks the subsoil and underwater space of our country, rich in energy resources and precious metals.
the syriza-anel government is adding new, unbearable burdens to the already heavy backs of the people by further reducing pensions, tax-free, job jungle, facilitating mass layoffs, complete abolition of the sunday holiday, delivery of energy fillets, ports, airports to businesses.
the commission mr president, the economic and social costs of managing the greek crisis are growing as the second evaluation of the third programme, originally scheduled for february 2016, is delayed we should remember this the delay is maintaining a climate of insecurity.
but the child we mentioned earlier has now gone to university and he has at least learned that work is what supports security and that only job growth ensures a sustainable system.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
the commission mr president, food waste is estimated at $1.7 trillion a year.
it's what many here call food waste.
the tragedy is that millions of tonnes of this food are either thrown away or destroyed, polluting the environment, when it could be used to feed millions of people in the third world who are malnourished and starving, and to meet the needs of europe's homeless, unemployed and other poor.
and fourthly, we should have specific indicators for the member states using funds to tackle unemployment, so that we can see how the unemployed are being integrated into production and how sustainable jobs are being created.
it seems that instead of blessing, a curse is haunting the countries that have energy sources and transportation routes.
the wider need to work together on issues which affect the whole world has become more acute, even since the g7 last met in japan in 2016. whether it be fighting climate change, tax evasion or international terrorism, whether it be promoting trade links, sustainable development or global economic growth, the questions of today are global in their very nature.
the international political environment is currently particularly charged, and the truth is that global cooperation can no longer be taken for granted.
i will refer, in turn, to trade, climate, migration and foreign policy matters.
on climate change, the global community needs to act urgently and move forward with the implementation of the paris agreement.
the european union is committed to ambitious global action against climate change and we insist on maintaining global ownership of the paris agreement.
in this context, it is also worth noting that, on 6 march, the foreign affairs council resolved to reinvigorate eu climate diplomacy and to maintain climate change as a strategic priority in diplomatic dialogues.
it is proving, and it needs to prove, that the transition to climate resilience and low emissions economies, is irreversible.
in parallel, countries have already started to implement their climate policies, while non-state action by cities, businesses, investors and civil society has continued to expand.
the council is aware that climate will be one of the most challenging issues at the g7 table, particularly in view of the positions expressed by the new us administration.
a bigger global challenge than climate change could not be imagined, and that is why we need a real commitment from the leaders to implement it.
without rules-based trade we cannot include important values like environmental or social values in trade.
this is the way in which we can enhance economic growth in a sustainable manner and make sure that our economic growth is translated to job creation too.
but i believe this was exactly the main motivation for the creation of the european communities – with one very important difference: the european communities and the european union are clearly the most successful project of peace sustainability in the world since the beginning of history.
(applause)this massive displacement we are witnessing in today’s world brings me to the third challenge i wanted to mention to you, and that has to do with the fact that, if one looks at the global mega trends that we face – population growth; climate change; chaotic urbanisation in many areas of the developing world; food insecurity, which unfortunately now has translated into famine in some critical areas where conflict and climate change have been aligning themselves to create terrible human tragedies; water scarcity – all these mega trends are interacting with each other in a stronger and stronger away in a world that is smaller and smaller, and they are having dramatic impacts in terms of the increasing fragility of states, the increasing displacement of people and the increasing human suffering in the world, and creating in several circumstances the potential for conflict over scarce resources.
in this context it is important to recognise that climate change is the main accelerator of these factors, and, since climate change is the main accelerator of these factors, it is absolutely essential that the world implements the paris agreement and implements it with an increased ambition.
(applause)if any government doubts these objectives, that is a reason for all others to come together and make sure that we stay the course in relation to the implementation of the paris agreement and that we build a broader coalition with civil society, with the business community, with the cities, with the regions, in order to be able to make sure that our ambitions are met and that we are able to tame climate change to the benefit of our present situation, but also to the benefit of our children and grandchildren.
(applause) but indeed, one of the key impacts of climate change is the acceleration of displacement, which is very much linked to the problems of migration and refugees that i mentioned, and this brings me to a fourth challenge.
that means, for us, the reform of the un development system, to make it much more effective in supporting member states in the implementation of the agenda 2030 that we hope, as an agenda for sustainable development, can bring a very important contribution to re-establish the trust between peoples and the international systems based on making sure that no one is left behind, making sure that we have a more fair globalisation.
madam president, the border control system is not sustainable and effective and, after the terrorist attacks on european soil, it has proved inadequate.
the court of auditors' report shows that we have had positive results in absorbing resources, but mixed results in implementing sustainable structural reforms.
for this reason, technical assistance needs to focus on both the absorption and implementation of structural reforms that are necessary for the sustainable development of the member states.
the commission mr president, the new european common vision of global sustainable development to eradicate poverty as a financial instrument and toolbox is not achieving the objectives it has set itself.
as regards developing countries, those who take ownership of sustainable development priorities should be committed to the outcomes of the understanding, with all its implications for bilateral partnerships, if this mutual respect is disturbed.
the aim is not development based on the spread of poverty and misery, but solid, sustainable development between equally willing partners, for the benefit of citizens and all parties involved.
the commission madam president, sustainable development is key to the survival of the planet itself.
the nato exercise noble jump is the prelude to a war plan in a region with major interests in controlling energy and markets.
in particular, the general objective of prima is to implement a joint programme to develop and adopt innovative and integrated solutions to improve the performance, safety, protection and sustainability of agri-food systems and the supply and management of water in the mediterranean region.
the overall objective is therefore fully compatible with the recently adopted united nations goals and the forthcoming european union strategy for sustainable development.
the general objective of prima is to contribute to sustainable and inclusive economic development in the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership, while its specific objective is to coordinate, strengthen, extend and align the currently fragmented national research and innovation programmes in the field of agricultural products, food and water systems, in a multi-stakeholder, multi-dimensional and integrated approach.
ladies and gentlemen, we all know that military intervention, armed conflict, political instability, climate change, unsustainable resource management and rapid population growth are the most critical factors contributing to migration.
responding to the demands of the region's citizens by contributing to improving the efficiency, safety, protection and sustainability of agri-food systems and integrated water supply and management.
ladies and gentlemen, as i open the debate, i would like to point out that the joint effort between the institutions of the commission, the council and, in particular, the maltese presidency, which has made prima its first priority in the field of research and innovation, and the political groups, has resulted in an excellent climate of cooperation which has enabled the best possible compromises to be found for the timely completion of the procedure, and for this i thank them.
in particular, the research and innovation partnership under discussion, prima, could, under strict conditions, contribute to the sustainable development of the region, access to food and water.
the commission mr president, the sustainable development of the mediterranean countries, through action on climate, the environment, resource efficiency and raw materials, does not depend on the various financial instruments or the establishment of the prima executive structure.
the problems of water scarcity, food security, sustainable agriculture and forestry, shipping and the economy are mainly due to a lack of awareness, training and mobility of the actors involved, public and private, but also to a lack of accountability and prosecution of offenders.
the environment must be protected as a national asset and natural resources must be made available for the benefit of society as a whole.
mr gambús talked also about the environmental angle of these problems, which are definitely part of our ability to solve it or not.
we have a huge pollution in the mediterranean, which is due to the fact that we have oil and gas drilling.
fish stocks are being fished at a rate above the maximum sustainable yield, with the result that they are gradually being depleted.
there is also a great deal of pollution from oil and gas extraction and, finally, unfair competition from third countries.
mr president, global warming, the depletion of natural resources and waste management are problems which require international cooperation, awareness-raising and the application of innovative technologies, free from artificial dilemmas and free from selfish private or national interests.
the protection of the environment is a matter for man and his survival and should not be the domain of micro-politics or an attempt to impose interests between states.
as a nationalist, i believe that it is possible to combine energy efficiency and safety with the protection and good management of biodiversity and at the same time reduce consumer bills, through strict compliance with the obligations arising from national environmental legislation.
mr president, we are talking about protecting the environment, about reducing emissions of polluting gases, about the objectives of the paris agreement, and all this when one of the biggest polluters in the world, the united states of america, has announced that it is withdrawing from the paris agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eighty per cent of consumers recognise the usefulness of the energy efficiency scale in household and electrical appliances.
we're creating a clear scale that will make it clear that not all electrical appliances are energy efficient, a scale that puts the data in their true context.
the introduction of the a to g scale, but above all the provision for upgrading the product scale, helps consumers to save money and gives incentives to manufacturers to further improve the energy efficiency of their products.
with the new system, it is estimated that we can save up to 200 billion kilowatt hours a year, or the energy consumption of estonia, latvia and lithuania combined.
it should be borne in mind that pollution in the mediterranean is significant.
the risk of glyphosate to both human health and the environment must be objectively established.
the european citizens may thus receive a clear message that the european institutions do not serve the interests of the big multinationals and are not indifferent to the protection of their health and the environment.
ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment requires access to primary data and not simply analysis of research results funded by the companies involved.
monitoring of glyphosate residue levels in food and beverages and supporting the agricultural sector in a variety of ways to develop sustainable solutions are required.
mr president, the reality is that the antagonisms between the bourgeoisie in the western balkans are intensifying, not only in kosovo but also in fyrom, albania, montenegro, serbia, combined with the rivalries between nato-eu-us and russia-china for control of energy markets and routes.
the same is true of the effects of climate change.
the future union must be functional, sustainable and democratically acceptable, and not a wash-out of the current inefficient and opaque model.
through intergovernmental procedures and taking into account the national needs of the member states, focus on issues with a genuine trans-european cross-border dimension, such as climate change or preventing the movement of millions of illegal migrants from sub-saharan africa and asia to europe.
it is the surest way to achieve stable and dynamic growth, quality jobs and debt sustainability for the greek state.
it's a trojan horse for privatizations in health, welfare, education, water, energy, and so on.
at the same time, industry must also ensure that workers' rights and the environment are protected.
the reduction in production costs was not based on improvements in energy and technological efficiency, but was shifted to a corresponding reduction in wage costs and pension contributions.
courageous steps and a break with the bad communist past are needed to improve areas such as the governance of the economy and the public sector, the fight against corruption and money laundering, the efficiency and independence of the judiciary and the governance of the energy sector.
young people today are still unable to realise the risk of these diseases, having grown up in an environment that was more about sexual liberation and less about the risks of sexually transmitted diseases.
they underinvest in immediate initial treatment and waste vast sums on advanced treatments.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one.
i think that a legal basis for fisheries tourism should be established, blue growth should be supported and, of course, the sustainable and solidarity-based economy should be supported.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
a sustainable future for europe exists only when money is the means to the well-being of citizens and not an end in itself.
madam president, the report on turkey reflects the sharpening of the contradictions between the european union and the turkish bourgeoisie in a region where there is a reallocation of powers, where imperialist competition for markets, energy and transport routes is raging, and where the turkish bourgeoisie is claiming a greater role.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
we have populations that really don't have access to energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the council to take action.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
we know that climate change has increased drought and temperatures and created winds in many areas.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of fire in the community, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
madam president, for those of us who have been dealing with european union law for many years, the court's decision was expected, because there are areas of exclusive competence of the european union which are related to the conduct of trade policy, but there are also matters in which competence is involved, such as the judicial settlement of disputes, investment issues, as will be the future of compliance with labour legislation and as will be the environmental standards that may apply.
mr president, we live in a time when the destruction of the planet and the environment is becoming irreversible.
both scientists and environmental organizations warn.
the effects are all we experience in our daily lives with climate change and global warming.
whales are mammals that have been on the planet for millions of years and are known to be in danger of extinction due to pollution of the seas, but also due to overfishing.
the fact that there is a debate on reducing carbon dioxide emissions from aviation at the moment is in itself extremely positive.
the rapid growth of air transport in recent years has created an additional serious risk to the environment and unfortunately there are no easy solutions.
in practice, it becomes a purely revenue-generating instrument with no significant environmental impact.
mr president, one third of the world's carbon dioxide emissions come from international aviation.
in fact, as air travel increases, global carbon dioxide emissions will increase by 700% by 2050. the globalisation of the aviation sector requires the international community to develop a global system for regulating co2 emissions in this sector.
so far, however, the united states, china and the other international polluters have been deaf to an international commitment, and this at a time when the united states is experiencing major natural disasters, precisely because of global warming.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not affected by the pollution of the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
madam president, forests cover more than 42% of the land area of the european union and thus make a decisive contribution to mitigating climate change.
but that means that measures must be taken to protect forests, to support sustainable forestry and biodiversity.
madam president, the forests, which, as has already been said, cover 42% of the surface of the european union, are an important factor in combating climate change and mitigating its effects, because they absorb and store about 10% of the carbon dioxide, which is one of the greenhouse gases, and in this way, as i said earlier, the impact of climate change is being addressed.
for all these reasons, both individual states and the european union as a whole should consider and rationally approach gastronomy and forestry in order to reap the greatest benefits, avoid forest destruction and meet the 2030 targets for tackling climate change.
decisions on space have a direct impact on the security of countries, but may also have long-term consequences for the natural environment.
in addition, there must be a clause on environmental compliance.
the rules for effective public financing shall be ensured through long-term viable and sustainable actions, with a view to maximum interoperability.
for this reason, the security of gas supply is a key objective of the european union's energy strategy.
if it succeeds in this, and with proper supply route planning, it will be able to achieve energy security in natural gas.
and there the big multinationals are not even enforcing labour rights, they are not enforcing the regulations and conventions of the international labour organization, they are not respecting environmental standards, they are putting children to work, they are exploiting everybody, and i think that this has to be addressed with concrete measures by the european union, but also by the global community.
they will transfer their activities to the vast indian market, where there are starvation wages, child labour, the over-exploitation of women, the violation of labour rights, safety and hygiene conditions and the systematic violation of environmental conditions.
we have been working on the last summit’s outcomes, particularly the eu-india clean energy and climate partnership and the eu-india water partnership, and on cooperation on research and innovation, launching the eu-india start-up network last october.
we intend to deepen our cooperation in the area of urban development and further strengthen our cooperation on climate change.
our europe must give young people sustainable jobs and this is certainly not achieved by cutting research budgets.
mr president, we want a europe of sovereign states on the basis of equality and democracy, a europe in which we cooperate on economic, industrial and environmental matters, but for the benefit of the peoples and at the expense of the multinationals, and, of course, a europe of peace and friendship and not a europe of armaments and wars.
mr president, we voted today to introduce the emissions trading system in aviation.
as president juncker said today in his state of the union address, global issues such as tackling climate change, the refugee crisis and the fight against tax evasion by large multinationals can only be tackled with more political integration.
the next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects pursuant to rule 153a of the rules of procedure: dieselgate: strengthening eu standards on the environment, health and consumer rights in the light of recent actions by member states, including germany and austria [2017/2835 (rsp) ] ] i would like to inform the members that there will be no 'catch the eye' procedure for this debate and no blue card questions will be accepted as we have an extensive list of registered speakers and we must be able to speak with the expected comfort.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not only effective but also effective.
the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not only effective but also effective.
we should express our condolences to the families of the victims who have suffered these irreparable damages, and say that these disasters are caused by global warming.
we cannot forget the great disasters in the united states where they must realize that they must join and remain in the paris convention for the protection of the environment.
madam president, european education and training systems must adapt to the rapidly changing economic, technological and social environment in order to respond to the real needs of citizens and to national priorities.
education and lifelong learning are called upon to address challenges such as highly specialised skills, the digital environment, the specificities of people with disabilities, poverty and unemployment.
on the contrary, when the union, at the request of the americans, imposed sanctions on russia, it did not stop gas supplies for even an hour, demonstrating how baseless the rhetoric about energy security is.
mr president, the political climate in cambodia is deteriorating.
finally, mr vella, particularly now that the saronic gulf has suffered a huge ecological disaster due to the oil pollution caused by the sinking of the tanker "holy zone iii", i would ask you to state here what measures of support you will take for the greek fishermen who have suffered enormous damage as a result of this ecological disaster.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
both the eu and asean want to continue fighting climate change and to preserve the paris agreement.
however, as everyone could see from the pictures, enormous environmental damage was caused and the professional fishermen were driven to desperation.
the aim was to support the country in political, social and economic reform in order to enhance democratisation and good governance, energy security and economic and social development.
the country has been driven into an energy and agricultural crisis as a result of the union's sanctions against russia.
it also cooperates on energy issues.
mr president, efforts to combat global warming and the human interventions that cause it are not producing the desired results.
but the effects of global warming on climate, oceans, health and agriculture are undeniable and are likely to become irreversible.
whether we're talking about global warming or global cooling, the fact is that the earth has reached a limiting level of absorption of dangerous pollutants, gases, liquids and solids.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report, which is a very good one.
the european union must live up to expectations at the forthcoming cop23, which, although it will be held in bonn, is being hosted by fiji, a country threatened with extinction by climate change.
to remain at the forefront of the fight against climate change, even as america shifts strategy and backs down from the commitments made by president obama.
mr president, commissioner cañete, in bonn one of the main topics of discussion will be the scale-up of funding to combat climate change and its consequences.
it is true that the joint target of mobilising 100 billion dollars a year for the environment is ambitious and may not be enough, although here in the european union we have already committed to spending 20% of our budget on environment-related objectives.
the anxiety about the loss of jobs from carbon-dioxide-emission sectors must be replaced by the response we give by creating sustainable jobs in new technologies.
it is necessary to create a policy that will strengthen projects and infrastructure to tackle climate change.
examples are many: decarbonisation, encouraging the use of alternative energy sources in transport, further promoting energy efficiency in buildings and renewable energy sources.
mr president, global warming is indeed having enormous consequences for the development of the world as a whole, but also for our future.
it is clear that measures must be taken against the use of all these chemicals which have harmful effects on public health and the environment.
in this way the european union and governments are covering up shipping crimes which cost lives and cause environmental disasters, such as the recent sinking of a tanker full of fuel oil in greece in the saronic sea.
but safety is not guaranteed by recording passenger data; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
it is well known that endocrine disruptors are chemicals that are dangerous to public health and the environment and i welcome once again the european parliament's determination to send a message that lobbying is not going to go away.
madam president, climate change is a major challenge for humanity and of course we are all fighting against global warming.
mr president, fertilisers are products for which strict rules are required to protect the quality of food, the environment and the health of consumers.
this will help to ensure that children are brought up properly, in a healthy environment, do not have psychological problems and do not feel the need to resort to artificial drug havens.
it is time to give them the opportunity to have sustainable jobs by exploring how this can be done.
with sustainable jobs, with incentives for businesses, with a reduction in the cost per employee and ultimately an increase in their pay.
it is necessary, after all, to have a sustainable production model that will be based on these young people, not only because they deserve an opportunity, but because they deserve a great european future.
the sovereign states need strong and secure borders, the eradication of destabilizing and anti-national nuclei and the consolidation of a climate of order and security as the primary parameters of development, sincere cooperation and solidarity between nations.
achieving sustainable and inclusive growth is the ultimate aim of everything we do in the european semester.
the main areas in which the commission report shows that most infringement proceedings were brought against member states for delayed transposition of european rules into their internal legal order in 2015 are the areas of labour mobility, transport, energy and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in conclusion, the application of union law must be comprehensive and not selective if the union is to convince its citizens that it respects its principles and thus improve the long-term prospects of its own sustainability.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs laura ferrara, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the implementation of the environmental liability directive (2016/2251 (ini)) (a8-0297/2017)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the report on the directive on the responsibility for preventing and remedying environmental damage concerns us all.
we must therefore formulate a modern and functional definition of environmental damage, based on the rapid evolution of pollutants from industrial activities, incorporating specific cases such as, inter alia, offshore activities.
the framework for environmental responsibility should also be extended to include the restoration of ecosystems to their original state after the cessation of harmful occupational activities.
we must realize that protecting the environment and the health of citizens is our primary responsibility.
mr president, the greatest danger to the environment does not usually come from the activities of ordinary citizens but from large companies.
companies should have both civil and criminal liability in the event of an ecological disaster.
the environment is not something we inherited from our ancestors.
in greece we recently had the sinking of a 45-year-old tanker carrying 2,500 tonnes of fuel oil in the saronic gulf, just outside athens, which caused a huge ecological disaster, but also great damage to the fishermen and the professionals in the area.
in other words, measures are needed to implement the aarhus principle so that citizens can participate in all processes affecting the environment, that is, their lives.
mr president, the debate has shown that the european union's legislative framework does not cover damage to the environment, so we must of course regulate matters in such a way that companies that pollute are fully liable and that those who have been harmed can be compensated.
i am referring to the recent damage, the pollution in the saronic, for example, where although we have raised questions about the rehabilitation of the victims, the businessmen, the fishermen and all those involved in the area who have suffered damage, the european union itself has shown that nothing has been done.
mr president, the environmental liability directive as a common framework for the prevention and remediation of environmental damage must include all pollutants and elements due to human activities and interventions.
in this sense, in addition to the existing environmental damage definitions in the previous directive, we should extend the scope to include damage to the air, fauna, flora, biodiversity and ecosystems.
in addition, cooperation with international organisations, in particular the world health organisation, will maximise the chances of achieving environmental objectives.
under the 'polluter pays' principle, violators are now subject to strict penalties and fines for taking action to restore the environment and ecosystems to their original state.
the protection of the environment is not a political issue of competition and is a matter for all of us, since the environment is directly linked to sustainability, sustainable development and quality of life.
one is a city on an aegean island where there are high transport and energy costs, and another is a city on mainland greece.
mr president, the posidonia oceanica, as we have analysed, is indeed endemic to the mediterranean and is certainly an important ecosystem which contributes to the conservation of biodiversity.
but it takes too long to develop and is very easily destroyed, mainly by pollution, fishing, trawling and coastal development.
a short time ago, mr vella, i asked you how the sea and fisheries fund could compensate those who have suffered damage from the pollution of the saronic.
the rapid development of international trade in a digital environment offers great opportunities but also creates significant risks for consumers, with negative economic consequences at individual, national and union level.
the topics of discussion, such as the sustainable development goals and the paris agreement commitments, are of no less importance than the promotion of trade and connectivity for sustainable development.
epidicus: which imperialist power - the european union, the united states, russia or china - and which monopoly groups will control its markets, energy sources and transport routes?
at the same time, the same countries do not respect environmental standards and do not - of course - respect the multilateral conventions on environmental protection.
mr president, the future partnership between the european union and africa must focus on specific areas such as the protection of human rights, the rule of law and pluralism, good governance, security and the fight against islamic terrorism, environmental protection and the implementation of measures to combat climate change, the regulation of the debt of african countries, the immediate cessation of the plundering of their resources and, of course, the fight against migration.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the 'action plan for nature, people and the economy' on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000067/2017 - 2017/2819 ((rsp) - b8-0608/2017)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the action plan, while an important step forward, is considered insufficient to achieve the biodiversity targets set for 2020. i have heard the commission's replies, mr vella, but words must be combined with deeds.
the last example is the brutal violation of the legislation for the protection of the natura 2000 area in the region of southern carinthia, on mount ochi in euboea, where wind farms are being installed which will produce 50% of the total wind energy in greece, destroying the environment, flora, fauna and especially wild birds.
we need to gradually put in place a proper and sustainable asylum and migration policy.
they all have to work together and support each other in the efforts to exit the crisis mode and move towards sustainable migration management.
at the same time, these countries do not respect the environmental conditions, and all this has the effect of reducing production costs and, of course, creating a dumping climate.
i think it is an important project because it protects biodiversity and natura 2000 sites.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
the result is the destruction of the environment, biodiversity, fauna and flora, and action by the european union is required.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution is a very good one.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
madam president, environmental protection must be a cornerstone of our policy, because the planet is being destroyed and there are natural disasters and catastrophes with many victims, just as there were at dawn today in greece, where at least 15 of my countrymen were unjustly killed by the devastating floods that hit the western atlantic.
mr president, mr cañete, the famous energy union has failed to meet the challenges of our time.
it has failed, in particular, to cure the notorious energy poverty which affects 50 million of our fellow citizens in the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet its own needs.
with climate change bringing more extreme weather events, we need to be able to protect human lives and valuable assets and to make our regions, our cities and our towns more resilient.
they constitute a full package that supports climate-change adaptation, risk prevention and resilience building.
under the current programing period, eur 1.3 billion is available to greece for climate-change adaptation and risk-prevention measures.
significant investment in water, waste water and anti-flooding infrastructure in greece has been supported by the european union over many years.
over 370 000 more people had access to new or upgraded waste-water treatment facilities.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the commission is also proposing that the council, acting on a proposal from the european parliament, should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
climate change and fires are difficult to control and do not depend solely on the actions of one country or one government.
mr president, greece is facing an unprecedented human tragedy with dozens of deaths as a result of the extreme weather events caused by climate change and the lack of adequate flood protection planning.
the eu also has responsibilities, as it continues to ignore and allow projects that endanger the environment and human lives.
i am very pleased that european policy is very consistent in this area, alongside the protection of human rights, alongside our other projects in the field of the environment.
the sustainable management of external fishing fleets can certainly ensure sustainable fisheries, provided, of course, that the conditions of the law are met.
mr president, about 1.3% of global carbon dioxide emissions come from international aviation.
so this figure, 1.3 percent of global emissions -- that's the exact figure -- is expected to increase, as aviation is expected to grow in the coming years.
this increase in emissions could reach up to 700% by 2050. it is therefore clear that the measures taken by the general assembly of the international civil aviation organization have led, as we all know, to the corsia system for the compensation and reduction of carbon emissions in international aviation.
mr president, the emissions trading system is trying to balance the carbon and other gases against the dizzying air transport system.
but the fragmentation of european airspace and the commercialisation of emissions through auctioning of rights are not exactly in line with the protection of the environment as a primary concern of the union, given that the environment knows no borders.
in addition, when airlines that do not meet the stabilisation targets receive compensation certificates, this indirectly undermines the union's basic principle for the environment: 'the polluter pays'.
the debate and the resolution on environmental policies are an opportunity for cross-party consultation and agreement.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one.
the environment is not to be politicized.
there is of course the question of the use of nuclear energy and the question remains whether the radiation which has recently been detected actually originates from kazakhstan.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), our main concerns regarding the expansion of eligible sectors in the digital economy, the funding of smes, extension of smes window, the blending of efsi and esif funds, and environmental considerations were properly addressed this time.
in the two years since the implementation of the joint comprehensive plan of action on iran's nuclear programme, the international atomic energy agency has certified nine times that all the commitments envisaged have been met.
this is a development linked to more general imperialist plans in the region to change borders, with the aim of controlling energy sources and their transport routes.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the 2030 agenda and the eurostat report on 'monitoring progress towards the sustainable development goals in the eu' (2017/3006 ((rsp)).
mr president, the european union is working to achieve the 17 sustainable development goals and to eradicate poverty throughout the world, while even now the troika is imposing on the greek people harsh memorandum policies, policies which have cut pensions by at least 40%, policies which have cut wages, policies which have led 40% of the greek people to live below the poverty line.
the achievement of the objectives of sustainable development therefore requires a change of policy in europe, it requires funds for social europe, it requires the european funds to be active and the european central bank, which must direct the billions of euros of quantitative easing towards strengthening the real economy and not the casino economy.
mr president, the european commission has presented us here with an overly optimistic view of the situation in relation to the achievement of the 2030 sustainable development goals.
poverty and social inequality are getting worse, the destruction of biodiversity is continuing, man is constantly degrading his natural environment both in the european union and of course outside the european union and, you know, in today's globalised economic space, what happens in our neighbourhood has an impact on us too.
we need a stronger mechanism to monitor progress towards the objectives of sustainable development and, of course, a mechanism to finance member states to achieve these objectives by redistributing from the strongest to the weakest member states, and we also need a reorientation of our external economic policy so that free trade can only take place within the objectives and constraints that the need to achieve sustainable development will impose.
in 2017 we witnessed intense forest fires, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes, disasters that claimed human lives, damaged properties, livelihoods and of course the environment, not only inside europe but also across the world, and unfortunately the list is long.
it is a very unique phenomenon because, of course, of climate change.
climate change has changed the game, and unfortunately this is our new reality.
i am thinking of environment, climate, health, research and others.
mr president, in recent years we have witnessed enormous natural disasters because of climate change.
there are responsibilities for the inadequacy and negligence of governments, who did nothing, because the directive provided that for those areas where preliminary studies showed that there was a risk, definitive flood risk management plans should be drawn up by 12 december 2015 by the competent ministry of the environment.
the union has adequately designed civil protection with the open partial agreement on major disaster response and the evita and prometheus projects; the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the community's policy on the environment.
the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
but i would also say that mr timmermans' frequent participation in our work gives an indication of how and at what level this cooperation should be, a cooperation which is certainly important because citizens with reports raise important issues, such as the right to free movement, issues relating to the implementation of fundamental rights, issues relating to the rights of the child and disabled people, but of course citizens' concerns about the protection of the environment are also expressed through the committee on petitions, which has a direct link and close cooperation with the european ombudsman.
i would like to comment on one area, that of environment and health, where it was said that this is one area which directly affects our citizens, and i totally agree.
in fact, according to europol and eurobarometer, environmental standards and legislation are among the main areas of legislation most appreciated and acknowledged by eu citizens.
there was also a mention of environmental impact assessments (eias) and i would like to comment that, every year, 16 000 eias and 34 000 screenings are carried out in the eu 28. in addition, whenever there is a risk of serious irreversible environmental harm and health risks, then the commission always intervenes proactively.
the next item is the report by bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on a european strategy for low-emission mobility (2016/2327 (ini)) (a8-0356/2017)
the report we are discussing is really very interesting, mr president, because it touches on the serious issue of emissions of polluting gases.
madam president, blogger nguyen van hoa was convicted for opposing the environmental disaster that is happening in his home country, and that was because a certain taiwanese company dumped toxic industrial waste into the ocean.
the unacceptable situation in vietnam is also linked to the european multinationals and other multinationals which invest in vietnam, because there the workers work for a piece of bread, because there social rights are not respected, because there environmental rights are not respected.