these elements are vital for the efficiency, service quality and sustainability of transport, and therefore for jobs, growth and investment in the european union.
they allow investments in efficient multimodality and freight logistics and, thereby, also contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
an efficient and sustainable transport system is key to making full use of the internal market and to generating new jobs and economic growth.
we are aware of the need to strengthen the ten-t networks and to encourage the real digitalisation of transport with a new safety system and the use of new forms of energy in transport.
in this context, i believe that logistics is of paramount importance in order to guarantee efficient and sustainable freight transport in the eu.
the eu is on the right track when it comes to energy policy.
the eu economy is one of the most efficient in the world in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and will, by all relevant indicators, meet its 2020 targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy.
the transition to a low-carbon economy is one of the important objectives of the european union in the framework of the energy union.
the achievement of energy independence as another energy union objective also affects the stability of economic growth, which is equally important in the current turbulent and volatile global geopolitical situation.
in order to achieve the desired objectives, energy interconnections between the economies of the eu member states need to be strengthened.
the implementation of these objectives would bring the eu closer to energy independence, which would have a positive impact on the union's economy, especially given that the union today spends more than eur 1 billion per day on energy imports from third countries.
the court analysed 37 projects, of which only 18 projects were realised in the 13 years under review, and the other projects did not have an ex ante analysis, leading to inefficient projects and a large waste of money.
madam president, we are aware and agree on the need to protect a healthy environment and the need to combat climate change, but we must also be aware of the need to find a sustainable balance between protecting the environment and protecting industrial jobs in the european union.
what does this emissions trading system actually give us?
if we have one robust and stable system, we have actually provided a way of funding to ensure that transition from dirty energy to clean energy.
so we all have to contribute equally to reducing co2 emissions, no matter which member state we live in.
however, if we look at the less developed member states in eastern and south-eastern europe, capital investment in clean technology and renewable energy is much higher than in other member states.
so one inequitable relationship when we talk about investing in clean energy.
madam president, as a woman working in a male-dominated environment, this topic is extremely close to my heart and i believe that we have a lot of work to do in promoting equal legal protection for women and men.
targets are being chosen, two hospitals, three schools, a kindergarten are damaged, and in some areas the supply of energy and water has been cut off due to damage to infrastructure.
the urgent cessation of hostilities, the protection of civilians and support for the full implementation of the minsk agreements, as the basis for a sustainable political settlement of the conflict, must remain our clear priority, and the european union must be an active factor in its achievement.
therefore, i am responsible in stating that no one cares more for the stability, sustainability and prosperity of bosnia and herzegovina than the croatian people and the croatian state.
in addition to the political problems that need to be overcome, there are environmental and air pollution problems in bosnia and herzegovina that directly affect croatian citizens, especially in slavonski brod.
any further delay in the implementation of operational programmes would have a negative impact on the planned achievement of the sustainable growth and development objectives.
mr president, i support these new rules which give the commission greater powers, so that it can actually help member states in negotiating with third countries about energy imports.
contracts related to the import of electricity, especially if we look at the environment of the european union, neighbouring countries that, although they are members of the energy community, invest in new coal-fired power plants.
the reason is that this way investments in renewable energy sources are delayed, and those that should take advantage of local potentials, investments in energy efficiency are delayed and in both cases local jobs are not actually created, which are so necessary to increase the employment of citizens in the republic of croatia.
commitments on effective implementation of cites are included in the trade and sustainable development chapters of eu free trade agreements and the commission does not hesitate to raise cites issues directly in our dialogues with trade partners as necessary.
i can assure you that the report will be considered very carefully by the commission, including in the ongoing work on the implementation of the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, and today’s timely debate has again highlighted this critical issue at the intersection of environmental and trade policy.
the continued increase in illegal trade in wildlife is threatening biodiversity, destroying ecosystems, and increasing the number of animals and plants that are becoming extinct or endangered.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
but we forgot the fact that one day these women will also retire, and that this very underpayment will cause them to have a pension that is 40 percent lower than that of men, and they will fall into the category of those citizens who will be poor, who will not be able to provide themselves with energy, who will not be able to provide themselves with food.
the role of the state is to ensure that these weapons end up in the hands of people who are in no way a threat to the environment and to regularly check whether they are still physically and mentally fit to use weapons responsibly.
why vote today for these more ambitious targets in recycling, why go for a lower percentage of waste disposal.
wall-e is an oscar-winning film that shows how a tiny robot, the only one of its kind left, collects waste, packs it and puts it in pyramids.
will the legacy of our civilization be the pyramids of waste, and we know what the legacy of the egyptian civilization was.
people fled into space because they used the entire surface of planet earth to deposit waste to build these pyramids.
but along the way, we must not forget that in addition to this recycling, in addition to this disposal, we throw away too much food, we dump our waste into the seas and oceans, we forget that we have biodegradable waste from which we can produce energy and compost, we forget that this ambitious circular economy proposal, these targets, actually means creating our local jobs and in all those member states that are protesting, it actually means creating local jobs.
as rapporteur for the report on food waste, i particularly welcome the adoption of a hierarchy and a definition of food waste.
public opinion supports this, citizens want this and it is the right moment for the union to show that it can solve this great economic, environmental and moral problem.
waste is not garbage but a resource that our states and citizens can make money on with the added bonus of conservation.
i strongly support the logic of the circular economy, trying to prevent food waste, to eliminate, as much as possible, all the pollution that we have in our seas, our oceans, in the baltic sea, in the adriatic sea, in the mediterranean sea and everywhere else where we have such pollution.
however, there is one county in croatia, istrian county, which i had the honour of leading for 12 years, which has largely solved waste management by building a regional waste management centre.
but now, because the european union has recently funded this regional waste management centre with 30 million euros in grants, we have some changes in government policy when it comes to waste management.
this would result in significant savings for all consumers and would reduce overall annual greenhouse gas emissions.
greenhouse gas emissions could be reduced by between two and four percent per year.
the circular economy should be an integral part of climate policy.
in order to achieve the credibility and comparability of the results of the member states, the definition of municipal waste should be aligned with that established by eurostat and the oecd for statistical reasons.
the definition, combined with a harmonised single calculation method for all member states, must be based on data from the final recycling process and supported by an effective reporting system to prevent the disposal of waste landfilled or incinerated from being identified as recycled waste.
reuse and recycling are key to creating a new policy to promote sustainability, where waste is transformed from a problem to a resource.
mr. president, 600 million tons of waste we lose every year, and we can turn it into jobs, into money.
the circular economy is a good tool to solve the waste problem.
in particular, when it comes to croatia, it is very difficult to meet the target of only 10% waste by 2030. but in the long run, we have to make a commitment that only when we have no alternative waste is dumped.
we need to turn waste into a resource and conserve resources in the european union.
i therefore support those who say that waste has ceased to be our problem and has become our opportunity, but of course, provided that we manage it properly, and that is what we must all insist on, and my message is: waste is an opportunity, let us keep resources, let us preserve resources in the union.
in harmony with this, we should also be more committed to the life of the unborn and to helping them to be born in a safe environment.
otherwise our response will never achieve sustainable results.
the european union has a responsibility to put its weight behind efforts to address the root causes of these crises, be they driven by conflict, climate change, population growth or other causes.
so first we decide whether we really want the military, energy, digital, fiscal and other components of the future union, and then we decide how to achieve it.
and that's why i'm advocating a moratorium on oil and gas exploration and exploitation in the arctic to preserve it for the future and to actually ensure the sustainable development of countries that would be threatened by sea level rise.
it creates mandatory provisions covering safety and pollution prevention measures that apply to ships navigating through polar waters, and also includes guidance on implementation, design, construction, environmental protection, equipment, training and operational matters.
we are making progress on environmental policies that will contribute to the protection of the arctic environment.
we have just allocated funding to a project to address the problem of black carbon in the arctic.
we will continue to call for the highest standards both of accident prevention and environmental control.
progress has been registered, but further implementation remains key, building on the results achieved so far and also leading to a strengthened and sustainable track record, in particular in the fight against corruption and organised crime.
on the economic side, montenegro needs to take measures to ensure fiscal sustainability, to control public, and to improve the trade balance and the business environment.
a boycott is not a sustainable solution, even less for a negotiating country.
we all, i am sure, look forward to the easing of political tensions and the continuation of the eu integration process, most notably the creation of a sustainable track record in the fight against corruption and organised crime.
a balanced economic environment and strong sense of rule of law will bring the necessary business opportunities and investment to montenegro.
however, montenegro, like other countries in the region when they joined, shows a lack of political will to implement the eu's public policy, especially in the areas of environmental protection and public health.
we know how dangerous they are to the environment and the immediate threat, should there be an ecological disaster, and lake skadar.
we have a concept where citizens can, through greater participation right at the local level, have more say in deciding what will be invested in their environment, how the city will actually be run and how the traffic in the city will be managed in order to preserve public health and the environment.
we have no interest in protecting the environment or the basic values that we promote, above all, in our own backyard.
i am therefore particularly pleased that the codification process will take into account, in addition to the technical characteristics of the vessels themselves, their social role in coastal communities and their environmental impact and fishing capacity.
they take care of their families, they preserve tradition and the environment, they work in agriculture, which is one of the most important economic sectors of any country, they participate in the food production process.
women in rural areas are invaluable to their family farms, and are important for the development of entrepreneurship, sustainable development and overall economic development.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
at the eu-bangladesh diplomatic consultation held in brussels in february this year, while recognising progress made so far under the sustainability compact, the european union underlined the need to address the shortcomings in compliance with freedom of association.
mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the italian friends who have raised this question, with those who have spoken, who live in italy, who live in campania, aware of the fact that living in such an environment is not easy, it is politically responsible, it is responsible in every way, especially in a human way.
the added problem is that no one knows where this toxic waste is even buried, whether it's in one place, in another, it's been going on for years.
in creating the wildlife landfill cadastre, i personally involved scouts, mountaineers, all those organizations that are benevolent towards the environment and want to be actively involved in all of this.
there are in the environment not only in croatia, but also in the candidate countries, there are in many places many more wild landfills, many more dangerous landfills.
but it's a serious environmental issue.
i want to confirm this once again here, but i want to ask the european commission to take the case of campania seriously and to make it the starting point for tackling the overall problem of such wild landfills of hazardous waste in the european union.
and in that context, if we want to use money to protect the environment and solve the problems of wild landfills, we can do that.
this is a real need, as some member states lack a quality institutional framework and the necessary administrative capacity to make better use of european funds and to implement key structural reforms that would ensure faster economic growth, a stronger private sector, new jobs and a sustainable social system.
we have also taken important steps towards sustainability by re-conceiving the common fisheries policy and our joint financial instrument, the european maritime and fisheries fund.
and so i think that today we really need to take a step forward, we really need to make a sustainable chain in this store because otherwise we're going to have on our conscience what happened, specifically, at rana plaza in bangladesh.
the aim of this report is to propose to the european commission and the member states policy and practical measures to reduce food waste along the whole chain from production to sale to consumption.
the report calls on member states to take the necessary measures to reduce the union's food waste target by 30% by 2025 and by 50% by 2030. to achieve this, we need official definitions of food waste and food loss and a common methodology for measuring these phenomena.
the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the proposed legislation on the environment, in particular the impact of the new legislation on the environment.
education is the key to reducing food waste.
it is estimated that more than half of all food waste comes from households.
the report calls on the commission, member states, local authorities and other stakeholders to carry out educational campaigns to inform the public about the value of food and the prevention of food waste.
commissioners, member states, parliament calls for a reduction in food waste in the european union, because turning a blind eye to this problem is deeply immoral.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, i take this opportunity to remind you of a recent study by the court of auditors which showed that despite the political will and debate on food waste, the commission has not shown too much commitment to tackling this problem.
i am therefore pleased to hear your words today, how you and the other commissioners will be working on this with dedication, and i look forward to the trialogue, because as rapporteur in the shadow of the green party i have succeeded in introducing a binding target for the european union on food waste on behalf of the club, and i wonder whether you will also show in this trialogue your commitment to stand by parliament and convince the member states that food waste is an economic, economic, social, environmental problem, so we can list them as many as we want.
and that at that moment, when we're talking in the trialogue, you'll be aware that on that day 55 million citizens of the european union could not afford a quality meal, and we waste 180 kilograms of food per capita per year and send it to landfill.
we ship and create an environmental problem.
and we know how weak some member states are still in reaching the targets that we have defined ourselves and the commission has defined in the circular economy package in terms of reducing waste disposal by 2030. of course, the burden must be borne by all, politicians, citizens and the economy.
but one thing that is certainly important, that is also at the heart of our policies that we are making, is how we actually, through innovation, through technology, make it possible not only that less food is wasted, but that the packaging in which that food is packaged also doesn't end up in landfills or also that it doesn't accidentally end up in incinerators, because we are witnessing that by 2030, two million people a year could die from the consequences of actually burning waste.
if we reduced food waste by 60%, the agricultural area of the member state of the republic of croatia would be spared from misuse.
this leads to the conclusion that the problem of hunger is not primarily a problem of food production, technology and raw materials, nor of climate change, but primarily a crisis of morals and a crisis of policies implemented both at the global level and within countries.
we need rational management of resources and sustainable management.
the european union throws away 88 million tons of food a year, and to prevent food from becoming waste, we are in the process of adopting a circular economy action plan, and i think one of the measures to reduce food waste can be stronger support for local agricultural production, doorstep selling and of course short food supply chains.
and this very issue of reducing food waste and increasing food donations is an opportunity for the european union to speak out.
i would like to emphasize and express my great satisfaction that this report was unanimously adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the commission has also identified a number of key challenges for the future of the union's energy sector, such as the need to improve the efficiency of the energy sector and the efficiency of the transport sector.
we need to adapt the modernisation of public administration to the changing environment in order to achieve economic and social benefits for society as a whole.
as someone who was born and raised in rome, just a few hundred metres from the vatican, i think you can understand very well the importance of this debate to me tonight and i think you can have full confidence in the determination, commitment and energy that i personally put into the work we have talked about tonight.
i consider it necessary to establish a clear distinction between transferability and cross-border access in order not to jeopardise the sustainability of the financing of the european audiovisual and film sector, which is based on the territoriality of rights.
madam president, it is unquestionable that in the context of the upcoming tourist season croatia will suffer heavy losses in the tourism sector if it does not move to targeted checks of passengers in traffic jam situations and the harmful emissions of vehicles waiting for hours in queues for the environment and the health of citizens is unquestionable.
mr president, the social aspect of road transport is certainly important in the european union, but we must take into account the figure already mentioned by mr kelly, namely that 25% of carbon dioxide emissions come from transport and that it is the only sector in the european union that has not reduced its emissions since 1991. so this importance suggests that we have to look at global competition that is investing in the development of electromobility, that is investing in the development of railways, and where the european union is far behind actually in both the research and the implementation part of these policies.
and then there's the question of how we're going to use the taxes that we all pay for the emissions that our cars produce to motivate citizens to switch to electric cars or hybrids and thereby actually reduce their emissions to the environment by driving on highways.
it is undeniable that the european union must ensure that its industry is competitive and sustainable through knowledge, research and development, but also through the single european market, which is a major advantage for progress.
in today's global competition for new technological advances such as 5g networks, cloud computing, artificial intelligence and robotics, the question we ask is how to integrate them into business models, value chains, production and consumption in the most sustainable and socially acceptable way?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
but i cannot agree with the recommendation that we give priority to funding climate change research as the united states is considering budget cuts in this area.
i therefore join the rapporteur, mr affronte, in calling for a clear definition of certain types of fishing and, on the basis of scientific research, for an assessment of their impact on the state of fish stocks and the environment in general.
however, the mediterranean also faces serious problems of overfishing, increasing maritime traffic, densely populated coasts and increasing pollution that require a joint response based on cooperation at all levels, from international to local.
i believe that special attention should be paid to the restoration and maintenance of fish stocks in order to preserve the biodiversity and natural wealth of the mediterranean sea.
in addition, it is necessary to apply environmental, economic and social criteria, respecting the precautionary approach in terms of the protection of cultural, historical and traditional heritage, socio-economic circumstances, while preventing unreported, illegal and irregular fishing.
i believe that the effective implementation of the guidelines for the sustainable and responsible management of marine resources requires strong comprehensive measures and policies.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and actions in the field of climate change, in particular through the european climate action programme.
the publication of monsanto's correspondence in the united states court cases that have been flooding the media in recent months, concerning more than 60 health claims and the occurrence of non-hodgkin's lymphoma associated with the use of the active substance glyphosate in plant protection products, has undermined the credibility of the us health and environmental protection agencies due to doubts about the reliability of certain studies used in risk assessment.
the commission has also concluded that the use of glyphosate in the food industry is not a risk to human health and the environment.
i appeal to the european commission, to my fellow members not to lose their momentum, not to lose their confidence, and in addition to all these programmes which the commission has developed, the programme for connectivity, energy links, i call on the commission to develop other programmes of joint cooperation between the countries of the western balkans.
the commission's progress report highlighted, among other things, the polarised political environment and the disruption of parliamentary activities.
i must admit that from day one it was not clear to me how the commission intends to ensure that public investment reinforces the effect of private investment if it has not first ensured a more favourable climate for private investment.
and the other pillar that still remains is strengthening the single market and creating a favourable environment for our entrepreneurs and investors.
and also what i would like to point out is that several important projects that the european union is currently drawing up for the future after 2020, and that is the energy union, require quality standards and norms, because communication between market participants in the electricity market, communication between citizens to the distribution network, communication between system operators will not be satisfactory if these standards are not interoperable and open, just as my colleague mizzi has stressed in her report.
studies have shown that reuse or repair is even better than recycling, because it creates over 10,000 new jobs and has a better impact on the environment.
mr president, commissioner, the commission has developed a connectivity plan for the western balkans, and an important component of that connectivity is energy connectivity with the aim of market integration in order to reduce electricity supply requirements and obtain cheaper electricity.
the western balkan countries are planning to build eight coal-fired power plants that do not meet the european union's high standards, primarily in terms of environmental protection and air quality.
i therefore call on the commission to help these countries, within the framework of the connectivity and energy community plan, to adopt the highest environmental standards in the construction of thermal power stations.
it also invests in priorities that are important for a favourable business environment, such as energy and transport, but also security and stability.
supporting culture as a driver of sustainable social and economic development and promoting culture and intercultural dialogue for peaceful relations between communities and cooperation in the field of cultural heritage are prerequisites for building a sustainable and tolerant society.
i therefore particularly welcome the parts calling for close cooperation between unesco and the european union in the protection and promotion of tangible and intangible heritage and the part calling for the promotion of cultural rights as equivalent fundamental human rights and for culture, because of its intrinsic value, to be considered as the fourth independent pillar of sustainable development, alongside the social, economic and environmental dimensions.
we need to make a significant change in our attitudes and ways of working, we need to reduce our dependence on raw materials from third countries, we need to increase energy efficiency.
the first is like a lightweight brochure published by an association, to bring the united nations sustainable development goals to all european union citizens so that they can recognize our policies.
second, the fight against food waste.
and third, in our oceans, in our seas, too much waste ends up.
mr president, the european parliament's structure in three different locations, in brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg, is expensive, inefficient, harmful to the environment and a great relic of a bygone era.
however, the total fishing capacity should be commensurate with the sustainable exploitation of fisheries stocks.
the commission will also look at the proposal for a dedicated support system for sustainable fisheries in these regions in the context of preparation for the post—2020 mff, following close consultation with stakeholders and on the basis of an appropriate impact assessment.
in this context, i believe that cohesion policy needs to be strengthened in order to strengthen the economic, social and sustainable development of the outermost regions.
it has become normal to attack a girl verbally or physically if she does not conform to the expectations of her environment.
i want to highlight three key moments as i see them, and that's really the exploitation in many countries of workers, cheap labor, over-cheap labor, i want to highlight the problem of tax evasion, tax havens and everything else that we know about taxes, the problem of environmental protection and the overall destruction of the environment in some countries.
the european union's global competitiveness will not only be measured by how successfully our industry is digitised, our transport is digitised, our energy is digitised, but how successfully our education system is digitised.
climate change and global warming are also not to be ignored.
while we're fighting fires here in europe, we have the biggest hurricanes and tornadoes in central america, which in a way indicates changes in the global climate.
the review of the regulation on security of gas supply is an important milestone in rolling out the energy union strategy.
this agreement now completes the energy security package proposed by the commission just last year, in february 2016. one of the energy union objectives is to ensure secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy supplies for european consumers – for households and for businesses.
europe’s energy market is changing rapidly and significantly.
energy efficiency will be taken into account throughout the regulation, in particular when designing preventive measures.
with the new regulation, cooperation on gas security of supply with the contracting parties of the energy community will become much closer and stronger.
madam president, the gas supply crises that we have witnessed several times over the last 15 years or so suggest that the european union will have to change its energy policy, as well as its rules of conduct in crisis situations, if it is to achieve energy security and long-term stability.
in the event of a future energy crisis, it is important to ensure that cross-border gas distribution is not interrupted and this is addressed in a high-quality way by this proposal.
the report strongly promotes the diversity of energy sources and renewable sources.
i'd agree with that, but with the caveat that our energy goals have to be aligned with fiscal reality.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency targets and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency targets and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency targets.
also, our esteemed commissioner cañete has been given a powerful tool, and that is to ensure that climate targets are also met in this way, because the natural gas that will be used in this way will help that transition by 2050 along our trajectories.
it is our duty to create a socio-economic environment that will include them in every sense and offer them the opportunity to achieve the maximum in life, both personally and professionally.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy.
the situation on the ground is changing very rapidly and we must not delay if we are to achieve and maintain a long-term balance between these two objectives that make fishing a sustainable and profitable activity.
mr. president, mr. commissioner, it doesn't take much evidence to believe that climate change exists, it's obvious.
and that's why i'm guided by jean-claude juncker's speech, where he said that we as the european union must lead the fight against climate change when he spoke about the state of the european union.
what i believe in is energy efficiency, it's energy security, it's less air pollution to affect better human health.
i also believe that we need to use, in every diplomatic dialogue, to use as our strategic basis, the talk about climate change and the fight against climate change.
we also have to fight all these situations in a way that puts climate change at the forefront, that puts the fight on a planetary level.
no national policy, no national strategy can achieve anything on its own, and that is why we are going to bonn together and trying to continue to position ourselves as the bearers of the fight against climate change.
mr president, i fully agree with you and i believe that the trade agreements we are entering into and signing must bear precisely these characteristics, namely the fight against climate change and must bear all that leads to sustainable development.
whether we create new jobs, whether we reduce youth unemployment, whether we achieve growth and development that is long-term and sustainable, that is what i have to look at together.
i am therefore convinced that high standards of environmental protection and food safety are the preconditions for our long-term competitiveness.
today we're talking about what choice means for the farmer, and i think that in that element there is precisely a way to satisfy all the interests in this house because farmers have a right to their choice, but we have to, i'm convinced of that, encourage precisely those who want to maximize environmental protection and food safety and, of course, i think we have to also encourage technology and innovation in the agricultural sector.
mr president, the adoption of the clean energy package is underway in the bodies of the european union, including the european parliament.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the light of the new energy policy guidelines.
i just want to point out some of these areas, like, say, new biofuels, like new energy storage techniques, including batteries, and like new materials in the energy efficiency of buildings.
but what i want to stress in particular and call on the commission to develop specific sectoral policies, for example in the area of transport in the context of new clean energy innovations, and something else i want to stress in particular, is the need not to leave rural areas behind and to take this opportunity with new technologies and to reduce the deprivation in the northern european union.
if it is true that this has been happening for years in this building and that victims have often been discouraged from reporting because it has created a climate in which such primitive behavior has been more or less acceptable, it should be shown that it is not and that it must be severely punished.
the directive is furthermore applicable only to certain types of environmental damage and this makes it further restricted.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests.
i personally welcome the idea of establishing a european fund for the removal of environmental damage.
while urban regions often offer better economic opportunities and infrastructure, they might face problems like pollution, traffic congestion, crime and overcrowding.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the eu's policy on the environment and the implementation of the eu's policy on the environment.
i am pleased that this proposal will allow some non-managed units to deviate from the established thresholds due to specific geographical, socioeconomic, historical, cultural or environmental circumstances.
coastal marine habitats are essential for the conversion of carbon dioxide into oxygen and for the productivity of marine resources.
posidonia oceanica is the best indicator of the overall quality of coastal waters because it is very sensitive to pollution and can only grow in clean, unpolluted waters.
these habitats are clearly under great pressure, either directly from humans or as a result of global climate change.
the threat is particularly acute from fishing with barges and dynamite, but also from anchoring, pollution and construction in the coastal area.
so i think that anchoring should be stopped by building marinas systematically, and also by treating waste water.
the eastern partnership, there is no doubt, needs a new energy and a renewed european vision.
mr president, the harsh winters in the member states with a colder continental climate take their toll in human lives every year.
the proposed plan should offer concrete measures to improve working and living conditions, a positive business environment, which will stimulate investment, employment, strengthen the welfare state and social protection, taking into account the specific situations of the member states.
i therefore call for the creation of a crisis fund outside the agricultural budget to help farmers in situations of market instability such as this, but also because of the increasing burden of climate change.
i stress the importance of enhanced environmental and maritime concerns for the protection of natural resources, common objectives in the fight against climate change and a partnership in the area of universal access to sustainable energy in line with the united nations initiative of the same name.
mr president, the final establishment of a fully functioning energy union will ensure that all member states and their citizens have a stable supply of energy and a competitive market for products and services in the energy sector.
such a large-scale project for the future requires not only a joint political effort but also major investments in energy, transport and telecommunications infrastructure.
the energy union must be seen primarily as a common energy market that we are committed to making accessible to all citizens and economic operators, rather than as a tightly regulated community whose global competitiveness will be limited by an excessive regulatory burden.
mr president, mr commissioner, among all the documents presented in this third report on the state of the energy union, i found one interesting: the analysis of the prospects beyond 2020. i can say that i agree with some of the points made in the conclusions there and i would like to emphasise again here that the regulatory framework which will enable citizens to be energy producers (a strange word) of the market is very important and that it is very important to come up with a common definition for this at european level.
i would also say that it's very important to provide citizens with sustainable funding because after 2020, the study shows that it's rooftop pv that will be at risk because of the incentives being removed.
and thirdly, we lack the skilled workforce to install these systems and i urge that we consider this in the future as one of the important points of the energy union.
the instrument is welcome, its implementation can provide either short-term assistance, for example to countries where a crisis is developing, or long-term support, in particular to mitigate various risks, address global and acute threats and build capacity for sustainable social and economic development.
mr president, we had an interesting discussion today on the state of the energy union and as part of that document i would like to highlight the importance of the energy efficiency implementation status report in the member states.
the report shows that energy efficiency measures contribute to gdp growth, employment growth, have a good macroeconomic impact on all member states, reduce fossil fuel imports, in general, all together contribute to the decarbonisation of our society.
that is why i take this opportunity to appeal and call on the government of the republic of croatia and the minister of energy to lift the obligation to implement the installation of heat energy separators, because they are not a measure of energy efficiency, do not contribute to the quality of life of our citizens and do not reduce their bills for thermal energy, but in fact only increase energy poverty.
they urgently need an accessible environment free of prejudice.
i recently participated in a health symposium of 100 croatian war veterans with disabilities where we have just defined accessibility issues in the field of information and communication technologies, in the field of all types of services, public institutions and other areas from the environment.
mr president, the new common fisheries policy has set us new objectives and challenges, particularly in the area of the long-term sustainability of fishing activities, and this regulation will incorporate them into the management of external fishing fleets.
mr. president, children are the future of any society and we have a great responsibility to provide them with the safest and most carefree environment possible.