– mr president, the energy union is much more than a framework strategy for secure, affordable and climate—friendly energy.
sixty years ago, cooperation in the field of energy in europe led to the european union.
today, the energy union is a unique opportunity for us europeans to strengthen and reinforce this cooperation in troubled times.
for a well—functioning energy union, we clearly need a high level of investment and cooperation among the member states – and not primarily, in terms of gas and electricity, for infrastructure, but also for upscaling renewables and increasing energy efficiency efforts and exploiting the clear synergies between these aspects.
the commission again confirms in its report the determination of the commission to make the european union the world number one in renewables, but the legislative proposals of the winter package do not live up to the promises; rather they put brakes on the energy transition and simply do not address key problems and market distortions.
it allows subsidies to fossil fuel and also keeps the privileges of nuclear energy.
loopholes in the energy efficiency directive are left unaddressed as well.
according to the report, there was a very modest 0.4% growth in the share of renewables in the eu’s total energy use last year.
instead it undermines market access for renewable energy sources.
while regulated household energy prices in about half of the eu are – rightly – identified as a problem, there are no effective proposals for dealing with energy poverty, instead of those distorting measures.
i also see a lack of proper support for prosumers, such as energy cooperatives, to compete fairly in the market.
the problem of energy dependency is also well addressed in the report, but the importance of energy efficiency in fighting against it is underestimated.
finally, one issue remains almost untouched – the poor enforcement of the existing legislation affecting the energy market.
despite the report stating that we are well on track, i believe that a lot more needs to be done in order to achieve a unified energy market and a sustainable, secure energy system.
i would like to assure the honourable member of a quick consensus that i really do think that the steps taken in the field of energy efficiency are very important, if only because they are indeed one of the best ways of combating energy poverty.
do you see any perspective on how to get governments, member countries, to at least agree on the energy mix?
on the one hand, the implementation and enforcement of existing energy regulation in the member states is a key issue.
and in this i think that the commission is not using all the instruments at its disposal to really implement the provisions relating not only to energy efficiency but also to renewable energy sources, to competition law, to public procurement law in the energy market.
the energy union plan and the winter package are quite clear on the need to introduce these price distortion provisions.
however, these should be replaced by measures that effectively address energy poverty.
i am particularly interested in the european energy union roadmap which is about to start, where he will visit each member state and hear their views.
the clean energy package opens a new chapter in the integration of the energy union.
i think we all agree on the fundamental objectives of the energy union.
make europe's energy supply affordable, make markets competitive, while putting the union on a sustainable path.
however, the implementation of energy market integration already involves significant risks.
these risks can also be found in the clean energy package.
the commission's recently published winter energy package is the foundation for the creation of the european energy union and the first building block of hungary's energy independence.
by improving energy efficiency, upgrading buildings, deploying renewable energy, we can finally cut hungary off from russian gas pipelines.
if energy efficiency increases, not only will the recession bill be cheaper, but tens of thousands of quality jobs could be created in hungary.
the deployment of wind and solar power, which are the cheapest forms of energy today, is important in the construction of the energy union.
the energy union also includes the abolition of long-term unfavourable gas contracts with third countries.
the energy union would also be good for preventing irresponsible governments from harming their own citizens.
the energy union is good for the hungarian people, it gives hungary cheaper and more predictable energy, it leaves more in our wallet at the end of the month.
i am of the opinion that, while the arguments that have been put forward by my colleagues are true, it is also necessary to see that this industry actually has tremendous potential for reducing carbon dioxide.
the success of european climate policy is in the common interest of all of us.
just as air pollution does not stop at borders, we cannot tackle this problem alone, we need to come together and find common solutions.
the debate on the ets directive, which regulates emissions allowances for european industrial installations, has been raging in parliament for 18 months.
the reform of the european emissions trading system will include a major element of regulating the sharing of the eu's commitments under the paris agreement, increasing the level of ambition, which can further increase the uptake of low-emission technologies and the transition to a low-carbon economy in europe.
however, in addition to ensuring that environmental objectives are met, the legitimate interests of the productive sector must be taken into account throughout the negotiations, as europe may be at a competitive disadvantage by chasing energy-intensive sectors.
finally, i think it is important to stress that the part of the environment committee's text relating to the modernisation fund severely restricts the freedom of decision of the beneficiary countries of central and eastern europe.
i am pleased that the report has included such an important part of the quest for tax justice, as it is a fundamental condition for a fair competitive environment.
in the case of energy and environmental investments, they may be particularly harmful and have a negative impact on the proper functioning of the energy union and the achievement of the union's environmental objectives.
accordingly, we urge in the report that all state aid related to energy and environmental investments and all irregularities in public procurement procedures - such as the controversial paksi nuclear power plant expansion project in hungary - should be strictly monitored and thoroughly investigated.
it is also indispensable to ensure that eu law is properly implemented in wide areas from the protection of the financial interests of the european union to the environmental acquis.
in such an environment, it is very difficult to convince people that reporting abuses is essential to protect the public good and the financial interests of the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we greens would be betraying our principles if we did not draw attention to some of the environmental concerns over hydroelectric plants threatening one of the most beautiful regions in the west balkans, the vjosa river.
mr president ceta threatens eu standards in the areas of environmental protection, food safety, labour law.
it is a threat to sustainable european agriculture.
the rapporteur is the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
for my part, i welcome the fact that the commission's strategy to tackle the challenges facing the aviation sector aims to increase competitiveness, but also to ensure greater protection of passenger and worker rights and higher safety and environmental standards, as the commissioner has just said.
this is also in line with the opinion of the envi committee, which considers that the aviation sector has an important role to play in mitigating environmental impacts.
the energy policies of the previously isolated member states began to converge and the issues of security of supply and solidarity were reassessed.
we have started to integrate the energy union in a real way, we have started to connect the networks of neighbouring member states and we have made significant steps towards market development.
however, i think that as this is the only programme that focuses on european citizens and approaches the subject from their perspective, more energy and work needs to be put into it.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) also recently called for raising the ambition of the current proposal by introducing a binding target to have 70% of municipal waste recycled by 2030 in addition to limiting the amount of municipal waste that can go to landfill to 5%.
the envi committee also called for a minimum of 5% of total municipal waste to be prepared for reuse, a binding target of 80% of packaging to be recycled, and a 10% target of packaging waste to be reused by 2030. i believe that the european parliament has to send a strong message to the commission and the council and stick to this high ambition level, in line with the previous commission proposal for the package, as this is the only way to trigger action in the member states.
we need strong incentives to reduce waste generation, food waste and marine litter as well.
it is crucial that investment choices are taken so that they facilitate moving up the waste hierarchy.
mr president the four pieces of legislation under discussion do not simply revise the waste legislation, but actually introduce a complex way of thinking.
it sees waste as a resource, a secondary resource in a circular economy.
the aim of reducing municipal waste landfilling to only 10% or 5% by 2030 is simply unrealistic.
the report states that the 2018 process is guided by the motto: 'a union budget for sustainable growth, jobs and security'.
hungary has been leading the way for years in sustainable economic growth, increasing employment, reducing unemployment and strengthening the security of its citizens, so this is an important message for us.
– madam president, let me first of all thank all the rapporteurs for the work they put into this report; considerable innovative energy went into this.
sometimes i have the feeling that there is a little too much of this innovative energy.
palm oil is clearly one of the major drivers of tropical deforestation and it not only has climate-related problems but also has a disastrous effect on biodiversity, and it also has some human rights issues including land grabbing and forced eviction of indigenous people.
we greens, in line with the report, believe that there is a clear need for a fully sustainable palm oil supply chain by 2020. also we call on the commission to come up with an action plan on palm oil.
there is a need for comprehensive sustainability criteria for palm oil products, also with independent auditing and monitoring of the certification schemes.
of course, it would be tempting to talk about environmental issues.
the environmental impact of palm oil extraction, and first of all the deforestation, which has been talked about a lot here, is being suffered by the local people.
we are combining environmental and sustainability considerations in our development policy, and i am firmly convinced that europe cannot benefit from deforestation and inhumane working conditions in the current palm oil production system.
in past years, all our attention was focused on the lowering of co2 emissions and particulate matter, without devoting enough attention to nox.
with the new proposal we are introducing new real-driving emissions tests that are closest to real-world use, and we will also introduce new type-approval legislation that will help diesel cars to become much cleaner, but we do not need new agencies for that.
future relations can only be built on the basis of the union's core values, taking into account the union's principles and rules on human rights, fair economic and fiscal competition, environmental protection and climate change.
finally, we believe that it is important to check the emas performance of the institutions and, as my colleague bart staes already mentioned, how the funds are used for co2 offsetting and the fight against climate change.
in the context of the questions put to the commission, i would like to point out that it is necessary to assess how the technological and innovation environment will affect the recognition of qualifications.
but there is a phenomenon i would like to draw your attention to, which is in hungary, my country, where, despite social decline, food waste is increasing.
i wanted to draw attention to the fact that social status also plays a role in food waste.
the figures for food waste are staggering, especially when you consider how many millions of people are malnourished or starving today.
in view of all this, the report of the committee on the environment is very important and timely.
one of the key objectives of the decision adopted today is to facilitate the work of civil and religious organisations involved in food donation, as the donation of undelivered food throughout the supply chain not only significantly reduces food waste but also helps those in need.
– although it is difficult to forecast the results of the negotiations between the uk and the eu, brexit will definitely allow the uk to reduce ambition in its climate, energy, environment policies – possibly in the form of the targets/standards.
this is particularly true in the areas of biodiversity, water and waste management, air quality and energy transition.
as for the elements of the circular economy, the uk might be reluctant to put in place measures for cutting the use of natural resources, for waste reduction or for better recycling.
thus, the erosion of environmental standards in the uk after brexit may have a harmful spill-over effect for other regions of europe.
therefore, i call on the commission to give environment policies priority during the negotiations and make sure that environmental and human health considerations play an important role in the future relations between the eu and the uk.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission by ms linnéa engström, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the un high level conference on the promotion of the implementation of sustainable development goal 14 (un ocean conference) (o-000031/2017 b8-0311/2017).
this june, the united nations will host a high-level conference to advance global ocean governance, which will help to implement sustainable development goal 14. oceans and seas play a central role in our lives and are key to our well-being and future.
this not only seriously threatens some marine ecosystems, but also poses a serious threat to food security and the economic and social sustainability of coastal communities.
the following agenda item is reserved for the joint debate on the digital europe: report by reinhard bütikofer, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the digitisation of european industry (2016/2271 ((ini)) (a8-0183/2017) and report by michał boni, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the internet connection for growth, competitiveness and cohesion: the european gigabit society and 5g (2016/2305 ((ini)) (a8-0184/2017)
it's a two-card draw.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
the affronte report also acknowledges that the level of overfished fishery resources in the mediterranean is two or three times higher than the maximum sustainable yield.
we must also recognise that, in addition to overfishing, the mediterranean is threatened by a number of other factors, such as pollution, changes in coastlines and habitats, and oil and gas exploitation.
and finally, i want to say that our current efforts are not just about saving energy, but also about making the best choice for consumers, which means that eventually we have to take into account the price issue, because the poor people have a much harder time switching to more modern, but more expensive things.
i ask you, how worrying is that in your opinion, given that it seems that the business community in america is going way beyond renewable energy?
the effort sharing regulation, which addresses greenhouse gas emissions outside the eu emissions trading system, is one of the key tools for the european union to meet its paris commitment.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
we have seen progress on the part of belgrade on several points of the agreement (energy, telecommunications, etc.
i would also like to draw attention to this aspect again, because today the european parliament voted on a whole series of other restrictions which are justified from an environmental point of view and which are putting rural and agricultural areas under even more difficult controls.
for energy-intensive industries, the level of energy prices is of decisive importance.
with the creation of the single energy market, we have started to reduce energy prices.
however, there are still some pending energy policy issues that may have a negative impact on market developments.
a prime example is the authorisation of the nord stream gas pipeline extension, which could contribute to higher energy prices in some member states.
i would like to draw the commission's attention to the fact that the above aspects - innovation and competitive energy prices - should be given the highest priority in the further development of the industrial strategy.
but i would like to point out one crucial element of this for a sustainable future.
the system of the pilot projects and preparatory actions is an important tool which targets sustainable, renewed projects such as the smart villages concept.
i hope that eu leaders will arrive at the g20 summit with more energy than ever before, because after two years of fruitless debate, the european council meeting in june finally managed to move beyond the refugee crisis and to address and decide on common challenges that shape the future of the world and of european citizens, such as global economic growth, the importance of implementing the paris agreement and common security.
without underestimating the importance of africa and the sustainable development goals, from the perspective of european interests, the future of migration flows, i believe that the key issue of the meeting is to guarantee international peace and security, especially in the syrian and iraqi arena.
i would like to welcome the fact that the estonian presidency has made the idea of an inclusive and sustainable europe a priority.
i was pleased to read in the energy programme that further integration of energy markets is a top priority alongside energy efficiency.
the estonian presidency's desire to make rapid progress in the negotiations on the clean energy package is also welcome.
in addition to the security of supply concerns, the project's possible implementation could lead to higher energy prices, thus causing competitiveness problems.
i ask the estonian presidency to support the commission in its efforts to ensure that only infrastructure that supports the objectives of the energy union and complies with the relevant standards is built and operated in the european union.
the set of sdgs creates a very important guide of action for environmental, social and economic development, good governance and poverty measures, but is the eu really prepared for a thorough implementation of the sdgs?
there are several deficiencies, also within the eu, in access to water, sanitation, along with other natural resources and basic services, such as air, water, affordable and sustainable energy, health and nutrition, which particularly hit vulnerable groups.
as the people's party responsible for the opinion written by the committee on development, let me draw attention to the development policy aspects of sustainability.
climate change is one of the biggest challenges of our time, posing a serious threat to all of us in the long term, but its effects are primarily affecting the poorest and most vulnerable.
the depletion of resources due to climate change is exacerbating economic and social tensions already present in these regions.
this family-breaking, often life-threatening migration is not a real solution for development policy or sustainability.
the european union must develop sustainable international development programmes that take as partners not only so-called civil society organisations but also various religious organisations and churches with huge traditions in the regions and often thinking of millions as a single organisation.
this can also be considered as part of development, sustainability.
the only realistic solution is to move from the compulsion to accept, which is the result of post-colonial trauma, to the creation of a culture of help on the ground in the regions concerned, which is the basis of sustainability.
in addition to their geostrategic importance, these regions have a number of strengths, including the appropriate exploitation of renewable energy sources, the blue economy, research and development and tourism.
the promotion of sustainable development in the regions concerned requires long-term investment, modernisation of traditional sectors, support for and competitiveness of local production and the creation of new jobs, especially for young people.
mr president, i would also like to remind you that aviation activities are an important factor in greenhouse gas emissions and their level is constantly increasing, despite some good practices by some major airlines.
various reports, such as the one on the aviation strategy for europe in 2016, and the connected opinions, such as the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, recall that any amendment to the existing legislation on including aviation in the eu ets can only be considered if the so-called global market—based measure is ambitious and if it can be carried out as soon as possible.
in my opinion, any kind of derogation from extra eea flights should be limited, for example in time, and the environmental integrity of the new scheme has to be properly assessed before any further derogations from the eu ets are granted.
on behalf of the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lulucf regulation is one of the key issues in european climate regulation, as we know that forests and land use change have been responsible for around 40% of global emissions over the last 100-150 years.
so we have to look at this regulation as being of critical importance in terms of climate change.
instead of looking at how we ultimately affect the climate, the climate change, the carbon emissions of forests and land use, we're debating technical issues, we're debating technical accounting issues, instead of looking at how we ultimately contribute to preventing climate change.
the envi resolution goes one step further than the commission and authorises further emissions in this area.
the proposed legislation on the management of greenhouse gas emissions and removals related to land use, land-use change and forestry in the 2030 climate and energy framework broadly complies with the conclusions of the european council of 23-24 october 2014. the launch therefore corresponds to the political framework set by the heads of state or government.
at the same time, it is clear that the basis for security is whether there is enough energy and whether there are enough alternating transport routes.
however, it is safe to say that this report will further strengthen the regional cooperation and solidarity that is so badly needed in the energy sector, especially in the countries of east-central europe.
if we really joined the european energy union, we wouldn't have to turn off the gas in the homes of a hundred thousand hungarians every year.
that's why we choose europe and the european energy union over orban's corrupt gas pricing.
the 'green walls' initiative will create a living, active digital solution environment that will stop the destruction of villages, displacement and rural decline.
i agree with a lot of what you said, but my question is, do you agree with this -- this was a un statement recently -- that the root causes of migration are two things: one is climate, we all know that, and the other is bad governance.
it would upset the existing structure of european gas supply to an extent that is completely contrary not only to all our policies, but also to all the objectives of the energy union.
should we support the mandatory nature of recommendations, since by protecting marine fish stocks and preserving marine biodiversity and ecosystems we are in fact ensuring the future and livelihoods of our children and grandchildren, many of whom will hopefully be involved in marine fisheries?
however, it is clear that sustainable marine fisheries cannot meet the growing demand for fishery products, and the european union must shift towards aquaculture development through a qualitative shift.
in an environment of such uncertainty and threats, our priority is to protect the security of european citizens.
mr president, in december 2015, this parliament celebrated the paris summit by starting a new era in climate action.
of course the european union must do its duty, take the lead, but it is absolutely absurd that president juncker says that the european union will take the place of the united states and make commitments in its place, when we are only responsible for 10% of emissions.
it will be particularly important this november to make concrete, substantial progress at the bonn meeting in order to maintain the momentum of the paris climate agreement in 2018 and beyond.
in addition to the practical implementation of the agreement, one of our biggest challenges is to maintain the level of ambition and to keep the issue of climate change on the agenda.
a growing number of citizens are taking action to decarbonise in order to become more resilient to climate change.
mr president, health, food safety and sustainable food production are all important aspects in relation to fertilisers.
it is in the common interest of all of us to keep cadmium pollution from fertilisers below critical levels, even if this step leads to a deterioration in the competitiveness of polluting plants.
i would also stress that we must take into account health and food safety considerations and sustainable food production when it comes to fertilisers.
we also need to protect the productivity of ageing workers in order to create a sustainable society.
– mr president, the commission thanks parliament for tabling this important initiative and appreciates the efforts undertaken to look into the implementation of the environmental liability directive (eld).
the environmental liability directive sets the eu framework for prevention and remediation of damage to biodiversity, to water and to land.
many findings and suggestions in the draft report and motion for a resolution are consistent with the commission’s own report and evaluation of the environmental liability directive in 2016. in the wake of that report, we are now working together with member states and stakeholders to improve their implementation of the directive, including developing the knowledge base, the expertise and administrative capacity for applying the directive.
the shortcomings of the environmental liability directive need to be addressed: first, the unsatisfactory non—level playing field; second, the under-developed capacity; and third, the insufficient financial security level in many member states.
the systematic collection and analysis of data and information on environmental liability should lead to an eld information system shared with all interested member states.
i thank parliament for supporting all efforts to improve the implementation of the environmental liability directive, especially in the framework of the multiannual work programme.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) participated, in accordance with rule 54, in the discussion on the environmental liability directive (eld).
the eld is a key piece of legislation aiming to establish a framework of environmental liability based on the ‘polluter pays’ principle and to prevent and remedy environmental damage.
we have a patchwork of liability systems, due also to the interplay with already—existing national laws, which in my opinion can undermine the common standards and expose some member states or regions to a greater risk of environmental disaster and the financial consequences thereof.
a revision would allow us to extend the scope and applicability of the directive by making operators of all activities strictly liable for all environmental damage they cause, which means removing the limitation in annex 3. in this context, the ini report rightly calls on the commission to impose liability for damage to human health and the environment in the future and also calls for the removal of certain exemptions.
this would entail high-level mandatory environmental liability insurance for operators, differentiated ceilings for activities with different risk factors and the creation of an eu—wide fund to bear the cost of relevant measures beyond the mandatory security in the event of large—scale disasters.
mr president the principle behind the environmental liability directive is that the polluter pays.
but in practice, there is another principle that many people think we see: that is, to privatize the huge profits and to shift the damage caused by pollution to society, to the population.
we saw this for example in one of the biggest environmental disasters that happened in the recent history of europe, the red mud disaster in hungary.
i congratulate my hungarian colleague, mr jávor benedek, who is well known for his commitment to environmental protection and is a good professional, on the report and the opinion.
i would therefore like to ask him, given the particular case of the red mud disaster, to what extent he considered that the eu environmental liability directive was applicable and to what extent the lessons of the red mud disaster influenced this report?
despite the strong positive commitment to addressing the root problems, i think that the european commission has failed to propose actions to tackle the drivers of biodiversity loss, including agriculture, transport and energy.
firstly, the commission must improve coherence with common agricultural policy and make sure that all infrastructure developments are fitted with proper environmental safeguards.
biodiversity has to be mainstreamed in the eu budgets beyond 2020, with nature protection earmarked in each individual instrument in addition to the dedicated biodiversity scheme.
my last remark: the eca found that the coordination between responsible authorities and other stakeholders in the member states was not sufficient; therefore, the commission should provide effective support to national and regional actors in the implementation of nature legislation and the improvement of environmental inspections.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
this report on the state of europe's environment, on pollution, on the destruction of nature is shocking, but we must realize that this is a direct consequence of the economy and the nature of the european union.
it is a very good thing that it could be produced and cultivated in the member states, and, speaking of agriculture, the report talks about how much land is being used for crops or how good it would be for the environment to have grazing livestock.
but, please, all of this is in contradiction to the european union itself, which, for example, has an agricultural subsidy system that supports industrialized agriculture that also exploits the environment.
we all agree that we need to reduce emissions from transport, but let me highlight two things.
no one disputes that current efforts are not sufficient to achieve climate goals, but if we break the competitiveness and economic performance of the european automotive industry, losses and damages could distract resources from the very goal of effectively reducing emissions.
the environmental impact of transport varies widely across the eu, due to the age of the fleet and the level of infrastructure development.
– madam president, in february this year the commission published its first edition of the environmental implementation review (eir) to give an overview of the implementation of eu environmental law in each member state.
the 28 country reports are accompanied by a summary document listing the common challenges, such as waste management, nature and biodiversity protection, air quality, noise pollution, water quality and management, to identify the root causes of problems, and providing policy proposals and recommendations for improvement.
yet, in order to fully realise this potential, we believe that the process could be further improved, including by broadening the scope of the review, as also expressed in the motion for a resolution adopted in october in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
my co-sponsors of the motion for a resolution and oral question – ms pietikäinen, ms bonafè, mr demesmaeker, mr gerbrandy, mr flanagan –and i tabled on behalf of the environment committee the following questions, first to the council, regarding the eir.
the same goes for covering additional issues in the coming review cycles such as climate change, chemicals regulations, industrial emissions and other systemic challenges linked, for example, to energy, transport and regional policies.
in order to demonstrate clear, strong political commitment, the council could hold regular meetings dedicated to the implementation of eu environmental law which could facilitate monitoring the performance and progress of a member state and ensure structured implementation dialogues as proposed by the commission.
in addition, we would see added value in joint council meetings to address the implementation of cross-cutting issues and also the environmental challenges of a cross-border nature.
we would like to hear the commission’s views on how the eir framework could be used as a means of assessing the implementation of the relevant sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the 2030 agenda and, in general, of shifting from the current sectoral approaches to a coherent, consistent and holistic solution.
these measures must provide sustainable assistance to these important players in the european agricultural sector.
i think that in an environment where only 6% of farmers are under 35 years old, we are talking about an outdated profession, and that is where the future of europe, the future of european food, really stands or falls.
the commission has drawn up a draft regulation on the internal market in electricity in the context of the energy union.
according to the hungarian parliament, decisions on capacity mechanisms will be taken at eu level, the definition of the energy mix will be indirectly taken away from the member states, and the member states' role as system operators will be narrowed.
they unnecessarily restrict the power of member states to set prices, while giving them the means to protect consumer rights and reduce energy poverty.
european energy cooperation should be structured in such a way as not to infringe the sovereignty of the member states as enshrined in the treaties.
the whole world is investing in renewable energy, the production of cars with combustion engines is being banned across europe, solar parks and wind farms are on the rise.
because today renewable energy is the main driver of economic growth and because renewable energy is cheap.
the newly adopted european renewable energy directive only further strengthens these.
it obliges eu member states to source 35% of their total energy consumption from renewable sources.
increasing renewables allows us to pay little or no for energy.
renewable energy is the future because it makes the cost of electricity cheaper, creates jobs, boosts the economy and, by the way, even saves the environment.
all the airplanes that are built today in different developed countries around the world, these will be in operation for 15 to 25 years, and they will be emitting the carbon dioxide that they were actually designed to emit today.
overall, i think that the carbon emissions from aviation are the ones that actually can, in the long run, even negate all the efforts that other sectors, industry, transportation, other sectors, can make in europe and the world, and that's why we have to pay attention.
the primary objective of the european fund for strategic investments is to support projects that deliver social and environmental benefits and high-quality and sustainable jobs.
the social protection of citizens will only be sustainable if it has an economic backing.
if you have sustainable and non-credit-based economic growth and job creation, you can spend it on social causes and people will live better.
we can't waste any more time, because child pornography has a much wider range of victims than the public is aware of.
i strongly believe that it is not enough to investigate the tax environment alone, but i also believe it is important that member states prohibit offshore companies from entering the public sector in the area of public procurement.
the report reflects well the way in which the european union will respond to the new security challenges in its environment, the changed content of the transatlantic relationship, the destabilisation of our mediterranean neighbourhood, international terrorism and the possible consequences of brexit, with concrete, innovative initiatives in the area of the common foreign and security policy in the period ahead.