madam president, i commend this report’s thorough consideration of the process of planning, managing and achieving an efficient and sustainable flow of goods and information throughout the eu.
in bolstering existing and future strategies, we may achieve a more sustainable european framework of mobility across all networks, and in light of evolving economic, societal and technological trends.
mr president, the recast of the renewable energy directive is a key part of the clean energy package.
i am delighted that i will have the chance to work on the proposals that will shape european renewable energy policy for the decade to come and will decide whether we will achieve our goal of remaining the world leader in renewable energy technologies.
i have been asked on numerous occasions in the past week what my priorities for the renewable energy directive are.
ensuring the climate is right to attract investment into the european renewable energy sector is the key challenge we face in the recast of this directive.
in europe we are often great at patting ourselves on the back in terms of decarbonisation efforts, but the reality is that the rest of the world is waking up to the potential of clean energy sources at a time when our investment is falling due to policy uncertainty.
europe’s share of global investment in renewable energy has reduced from 50% in 2005 to 20% in 2014. european investment in renewable energy dropped by around 20% between 2014 and 2015 for the good reason that the rest of the world sees the benefits of renewable energy.
however in recent times we have borne witness to a growing trend of corruption within the sporting climate.
by calling on the commission to come forward with a legislative amendment allowing for the establishment of a fast-track evaluation, authorisation and registration process for low-risk biological pesticides, we are also helping to resolve other pressing issues that are facing eu member states, issues concerning biodiversity and exposure to carcinogens.
also, by increasing the options for farmers we can help to tackle food waste.
so increasing the availability and promoting the innovation of more low-risk biological pesticides is a win-win for farmers, consumers and the environment.
we cannot be naive, and naivety is when we have carbon leakage leading to the loss of jobs in europe and increased emissions worldwide.
so for that reason i back my colleagues, particularly in the ppe group and the committee on industry, research and energy, regarding cement.
free trade does not mean a diminution of the eu standards that have been built up over so many years, protecting welfare, health and safety, social rights and entitlements, consumer rights, the right to do business, the right to trade and the need to protect and enhance our environment.
to create a sustainable future, not to change it, the european union must also invest in infrastructure to build a future.
in particular, we cannot export our co2 emissions to other countries, but we can also achieve our targets for cop21 and cop22.
we also have the challenges of environmental targets and, of course, the files that are still sitting have not been resolved: single european sky, slot regulation, passenger rights.
we have to look at ways of reducing emissions, while maybe meeting increased demand, and that is a big challenge for us.
notably, the case of the arbitrary detainment of environmental activist francesca ramirez and her family.
i invested a lot of energy and time into convincing those member states that we needed to achieve the necessary majority, which is one big member state and two smaller ones, namely germany, which already has the law.
and given that we are going to vote on food waste, maybe this is an issue that needs to be looked at.
mr president, my mother used to say ‘waste not, want not’, and i think many of us in this house will know that phrase.
it makes a great deal of sense and that is why i supported all of these reports on waste management.
however, we are going to have to do some work in member states to convince the public to deal with their household waste in a way that separates what can be recycled from other waste streams.
i was disappointed to learn that several – i think 160 – containers of green-bin waste from ireland were stopped because they were found to be contaminated.
so we need an education and awareness programme for citizens about the importance of separating waste in a way which allows us to reuse it, putting it back into the entire production cycle.
lastly, i would say that rural europe, including rural ireland, tends to be used as an illegal dumping ground for waste from villages, towns and cities, and this needs to stop.
the bottom line here is that we have too much waste and we must do everything we can to reduce it.
these reports are strong and balanced positions for the european parliament and they will help us to move towards a more resource-efficient and sustainable economy.
for instance in 2010 eu waste production was 2 520 million tonnes, of which only 36% was recycled.
we have got to eliminate municipal waste and general waste and move to a circular economy.
they don't want to know, but it's clear that they're the reasons why more people are being exposed to the dangers of immigration in developing countries, such as the cataracts, the bad effects of climate change.
cop 21 will bring laws on the future of the climate to the table and will make every effort to make real progress in the countries concerned.
with the cfp, crucial for the prevention of over-fishing and marine pollution, it is therefore important that we improve upon the functioning of the system in place.
surely it makes sense to have a short supply chain and interestingly enough, i have not heard many people talk here about the fact that we have signed up to doing something about climate change.
in ireland, the fishing industry is definitely a sector that is really concerned about what the terms of brexit will be and what will transpire in relation to territorial waters, quotas and maximum sustainable yield, etc.
the main reasons for this are the lack of information on the fishing industry and the need to take account of the social role of the fishing industry, the environment, fishing methods, fishing efficiency and scale.
the dual nature of the legislation to support the monarchy and the rule of law is such that it damages the environment, gives the people power, and makes life less difficult.
mr president, when i first heard of the emissions scandal i could not believe it.
i could not believe that such reputable businesses would go to such lengths to treat both consumers and the system ... especially in relation to emissions reductions, which are so much part of the european profile at the minute, when we are leading the world in relation to cop21 and cop22.
this is a regulation that is so important to our citizens, not only in terms of consumer confidence and information, but also to prevent the damaging effects of emissions on public health and on climate change.
in this regard we must do everything we can to prevent cheating by car manufacturers aiming to manipulate emissions and fuel consumption tests and produce false results for financial gain.
from the point of view of reducing harmful emissions etc.
we simply cannot have another volkswagen scandal and the impacts on climate and public health are too great not to take decisive action.
making it easier and cheaper for companies, especially smes, to raise capital within the markets and to go public ensures that european companies can grow and prosper in a sustainable way.
this is environmental sabotage on a grand scale.
from 1994 to 2008 the region of campania in south-west italy was under a formal state of emergency declared due to the saturation of regional waste treatment facilities.
there is growing evidence, including from the world health organisation, that the accumulation of waste, illegal and legal, urban and industrial, has contaminated soil, water and the air with a range of toxic pollutants, including dioxins.
throughout all the research, a high correlation between incidence of cancer, respiratory illnesses and genetic malformations and the presence of industrial and toxic waste landfills has been found.
many people say that the catalyst for this catastrophe is illegal trade and that hazardous waste is a by—product of tax dodging in a country with one of the highest levels of evasion in western europe.
businesses massaging their income had to mask the scale of their activities and that meant hiding huge amounts of hazardous waste.
in particular, i welcome the report’s recognition of the principles of economic recovery, the promotion of youth employment, the fostering of innovation and smes in the sphere of entrepreneurship, and environmental sustainability and climate action.
at least we are trying to tackle the food waste, which is similar.
the figures, which have been mentioned, actually are staggering: 88 million tonnes of food are wasted each year at a cost of eur 143 billion; the food that is produced globally but not eaten uses a volume water equivalent to the annual flow of the volga river in russia and adds 3.3 billion tonnes of greenhouse gases to the planet’s atmosphere.
also, of course, we have signed up to the un sustainable development goals, and that is about halving the per capita food waste at the retail and consumer level.
i was glad to hear the commissioner mention the necessity for a reliable method to measure food waste, and this is something i welcome the report.
we, for example, have extra-judicial courts to enforce investors’ rights but no binding mechanism to enforce environmental standards, health and safety standards and decent work conditions.
i am aware that the commission is in a consultative phase right now in terms of the future regulatory environment, and i would ask them to study carefully, as the commissioner said, what we have produced in this report.
we need the right regulatory environment, and that is about the regulators working with innovators to make sure that we can do that.
following on from what my friend mr eickhout said, i think climate change is going to be a hugely important issue here at the g7 summit, and especially the role of the larger—than—life character president donald trump.
and this is a man, donald trump, who claimed that climate change was created by the chinese to attack us manufacturing competitiveness, who claimed that global warming is an expensive hoax, and who claimed that wind farms are bad for people’s health.
and in the interests of us citizens and world citizens, we need to adopt the climate change agreement in paris and implement it, and the united states has to do so above all else.
mr president, the transport sector is responsible for around a quarter of europe’s greenhouse emissions, and is a particularly problematic sector for ireland.
achieving 80% decarbonisation across the eu by 2050, which is the goal, would likely require the decarbonisation of the road transport sector by around 95% by 2050. as epp rapporteur on the renewable energy directive, this is an area in which i have a keen interest and an area where i believe there are huge opportunities to make great emission savings with innovative solutions.
the electrification of transport would displace imported carbon-intensive fossil fuels and eliminate harmful air pollutant emissions in our cities and towns.
however, the foundations need to be laid for this and i welcome the commission’s ideas, in the energy performance of buildings directive, to increase the amount of charging points in our buildings.
yes, there is a sustainability question about some feed stocks, palm oil for example, but i think our challenge in the work on the renewable energy directive will bring certainty for producers of sustainable biofuels.
examples of this are where tobacco companies have successfully sued the uruguay government over public health legislation or where american waste companies successfully sued the canadian government when it tried to ban the export of toxic poly-chlorinated biphenyl (pcb) waste.
we do not have special courts to protect citizens’ rights, to protect the environment, or to protect human rights or workers’ rights.
it is very important that europe is at the forefront in this whole area, while recognising that we also need a clean environment for all our citizens.
the influence of the digital economy will be the driving force in balancing the rural economic environment.
i think also it was good to hear commissioner moedas refer to third countries, because we cannot do this on our own, even if we were perfect within the european union in fish management, stocks, etc., we could not achieve much, and, especially in relation to climate change, the environment and the sea are very important.
the amount of plastic in the sea is an absolute scandal and that is something we really have to work on, both from the point of fishing stocks but also from the point of view of climate change.
mr president, first of all i welcome the proposals here today and again compliment commissioner cañete and his team for the good work they are doing in helping us to meet the paris climate targets.
firstly, i am becoming more and more convinced that consumers in general want to reduce their carbon emissions, and all they need is help to do so.
so this is actually a great opportunity for us to do something simple, straightforward, that will help us to meet the climate-change targets in paris.
we are doing a lot of work on climate—smart agriculture, but there is only so far we can go.
we know that we have to do more, but what i would ask colleagues to understand is the situation where we do not have heavy industry, we have a large agricultural sector and we need much more flexibility on this issue, because farmers are concerned that the cost of this at the moment – if we look at the calculations – would be over eur 1.7 billion in terms of purchasing carbon.
there can be benefits if we meet this challenge; there can be benefits in producing our proteins locally, rather than bringing them thousands of kilometres across an ocean; there can be benefits in recycling the animal manure and reusing the energy and the fertiliser, saving on heavy use of energy in chemical fertilisers.
mr president, i am totally in favour of the paris climate accord.
for instance, we now have to start at the target rather than the actual emissions.
written statements (rule 162)
mr president, what we are talking about is the contribution that agriculture, transport and construction have to make to climate change.
the issue is how much of a contribution can be made, particularly by agriculture, because the council conclusions of 2014 recognise the low mitigation potential of the sector and, indeed, the paris agreement talks about the food security issue and the vulnerability of agriculture to the adverse impacts of climate change.
i count on the negotiations to take out the most difficult aspects of this from an irish point of view, so that we can keep forging ahead with a sustainable food supply chain, supplying our eu customers and global customers.
mr president, it is important that we meet the paris objectives, particularly in light of the statements recently by president trump, and i do not think anybody disputes our commitment under the paris agreement to binding annual greenhouse gas emissions and how we are going to reduce those.
i therefore supported amendments, that unfortunately were not accepted, seeking to ensure we have a more flexible and less punitive approach towards the greenhouse gas emissions reductions, and i acknowledge the many difficulties that many countries face after the financial crisis.
the agricultural sector is particularly sensitive for ireland and we have raised this objection today, but overall i support the report and its implementation as we aim to meet our paris climate change objectives.
it means that rather than starting on actual emissions, we had to start with a target which was not reachable, was not practical and which will now probably cost the irish taxpayer eur 1 billion to purchase compliance.
mr president, it was a very difficult decision for me to abstain on this report and not to support it, because it contains many good proposals on the reduction of greenhouse gases.
i think what we have done here is to run counter to the paris agreement and the october 2014 agreement, which recognised the low mitigation potential of agriculture and that food production and food security are important elements in any proposal on climate change.
we would rather face the challenge of housing, social equity, and the challenges of the environment than the challenge of the world, which is the only way to do it.
our ports have a huge role to play as our economy develops into the future, and also indeed in even tackling climate change, where you should utilise them more to carry cargo and get it off the roads.
i wish to note the vital contributions of my colleagues in the committee on industry, research and energy towards the finalisation of this report.
the only way to tackle this is a bit like with climate change: a global agreement with the same rules applying across the globe.
written statements (rule 162)
madam president, the fishing community is one that has faced growing pressures from a multitude of factors in recent years, including pollution, climate change and overfishing, which make it increasingly difficult for fishermen to earn a reliable income.
there are some interesting ideas in this paper, and some challenging ideas too around possible reforms of the common agricultural policy, including the distribution of payments, and some food for thought around how we will design a policy that meets the challenges of climate change and biodiversity and delivery.
we also need to hear from the commission, and i think commissioner hogan will be delivering on the commitment on sustainable food supply chains, and on action to tackle unfair trading practices.
a public investment plan should be put in place to help the eu achieve its strategic and structural objectives, and to provide a high level of value for money, the public sector, the environment and society in general.
there is always a need for sustainable development in our cities, so it is important that we take care of our neighbours as well.
we must be more aware of sustainable development in practice, as we want to ensure that all citizens are informed about the development ahead.
i would also appeal to the french, who played such an honourable and central part in the cop 21 climate summit in paris.
so obviously it is rather chilling to be aware of that, and it is so important as well that the european union should show solidarity with these people, and indeed those who suffer from all types of tragedies, especially when caused by climate change.
mr president, the un sustainable development goals (sdgs) influence virtually every aspect of the eu’s work.
the global 2030 agenda represents a commitment to achieving sustainable development by 2030 worldwide – a commitment that must be shared by all countries.
a couple of weeks ago i attended an open day in my own country, in gurteen college, called ‘energy in agriculture’, where the amount of innovation that is taking place in relation to trying to reduce emissions and create renewable energies in agriculture was breathtaking.
i think the important aspect is that, while we all know it is a carbon sink and the forests can be used for various products – especially for renewable energy – once we have a policy of increasing (not decreasing) the amount of land under forestry, we can work everything out from there.
the next item is the report by mr carlos zorrinho, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the promotion of internet connectivity in local communities (com(2016)0589 – c8-0378/2016 – 2016/0287(cod)) (a8-0181/2017).
written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on measures to safeguard the security of gas supply (com(2016)0052 – c8-0035/2016 – 2016/0030(cod)) (a8-0310/2016).
without a doubt, energy security is vital for europe, for industrial competitiveness, and for investment.
others are mentioned as well, but shannon lng has the potential to help us have energy security.
the ‘trade for all’ communication prioritises effectiveness and transparency in trade policy and brings to the forefront the need to promote sustainable development, human rights and good governance in international trade.
where we state that, first of all, member states should be obliged to include the built environment under the scope of the directive; where we include people with functional limitations when assessing the burden on businesses; and where we propose to delete amendment 78 to ensure the accessibility act will apply to other union acts such as public procurement and eu funds; we also wish to include smes within the scope of the act.
in the eu we must ensure that we reduce emissions by at least 40% by 2030 by deploying more renewable energy, pricing carbon and moving to lower carbon and a more sustainable society.
i look forward, as shadow rapporteur on the renewable energy directive, to playing my part.
it clarifies and defines its position in view of the cop 23 climate change conference.
so it is very important that we reiterate that global agreements are the best place in which to deal with emissions and with the effect on climate change in these areas.
i also think that the ambitious targets that have been set down in the paris agreement, whilst they are very welcome, do not guarantee that significant climate impacts will be avoided.
the resolution has called for global greenhouse gas emissions to reach their peak, and to do it as soon as possible.
i think that is something that we will really encourage and i am glad to say, as a rapporteur for renewable energy, that they were including local energy communities in the clean energy package.
there is a need for development in our area so that we can have a life that is sustainable.
it is highly concerned with the rise of instability and uncertainty, both within and outside the union, and insists on the need for a renewed focus on the union’s approach to cohesion, integration, peace, sustainable development and human rights.
we cannot afford the most basic climate change mitigation measures, yet it is the policy of the ecb that my country should continue to borrow and burn billions.
now we have north-south cooperation on the island of ireland in many areas, in more than a hundred areas in health, education, and environment, and we need that to continue.
biodiversity is under threat across the continent, and this action plan points to where we are currently failing and aims to get us back on track for our 2020 goals.
we also welcome in the action the financial commitments to increasing biodiversity funding.
while certain preventive measures may be necessary, we cannot rule out the introduction of predators as they constitute an important part of the ecological balance of some habitats.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being here today and for the package we are discussing because europe, as we have said, really is lagging behind when it comes to clean energy and its associated relationship with cars and with vehicles.
i very much welcome the package because it sets targets and also provides encouragement and support, as well as financial grants in some areas, to ensure that we reduce our carbon emissions and improve air quality for all citizens.
it is very positive and whether it is for electric vehicles or for whatever type of renewable energy that may be used, i can see the real value in that and i can see it being very effective.
i look forward to signing up for that package and to encouraging it, because these are the very practical measures that we need to ensure that we move in this area, because all around us we see the impact of climate change, and now is the time to act.
– madam president, one of the biggest problems we have with implementing directives when it comes to the environment is the fact that governments do not actually take ownership of these directives, even though they themselves transpose them into law.
madam president, there is no doubt that eu environmental legislation has yielded results.
sometimes, on environmental policies, we need coherence at political level and at commission level, so that we can continue to use these products to improve the environment.
also, while i completely agree that human rights is a major issue - we just spent two hours discussing human rights issues this morning - you can't say, on the one hand, because we're not happy with your human rights record we're not going to have any business with you; and, on the other hand, say: because donald trump pulled out of climate change and now you've taken leadership, we're delighted with you and we're going to cooperate with you.
however, horizon 2020 has brought significant technological progress, not least in clean energy technologies that will help us meet our targets and this is the best return of all the commitments we have.
finally i am very pleased parliament has dealt with important issues to me especially and my country: on young farmers, an increase of eur 34 million; climate, an increase of eur 95 million; and milk storage: an increase of eur 2 million.
mr president, i must say it is a pleasure to be here this evening in the company of so many meps who are working so hard to make the energy union a reality, as indeed are commissioners cañete and šefčovič and others.
i am going to concentrate on renewable energy because i am honoured to be the rapporteur for the renewable energy directive for my group – the european people’s party (epp) – and i must say, in this regard, that europe is brimming with potential.
i believe that the position the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) took on this directive yesterday can give the industry a needed boost and help us to fulfil president juncker’s ambition for the eu to be the world leader in renewable energy.
it is now increasingly clear that the final energy targets for 2030 which we agree upon will see the ambition levels raised from those of the october 2014 council conclusions.
for me, it is important that we give the right signal to drive investments, but we must also consider the impact on energy prices that large increases in support for renewables will bring.
in many instances, something absent from brussels’ discussions of renewable energy is the additional costs that a non-pragmatic approach can bring in terms of energy prices.
we must consider those who are seeking to heat their homes, and the energy-intensive factories that employ thousands upon thousands of europeans.
if energy costs are made too high because of policy supports, and the blame is put on renewables, we will get nowhere.
that is why i am pleased that we accepted a 35% ambition level in the committee on industry, research and energy yesterday.
we will be looking at issues like competitive systems of tendering, incentivising renewable self-consumption and developing renewable energy communities, as well as simplifying and shortening the approval processes for renewable energy projects.
the amending regulation introduces provisions to enhance the capacity-building of military aids in partner countries with eu funds in order to achieve peaceful and sustainable development of societies in concerned countries.
the political environment is framed by the power struggle between the houthi movement religious group and the al-hadi government.
the commission has not worked to create employment, it has not worked for the benefit of public services, it has not worked for the benefit of the financial sector and the environment, and it has not worked for the benefit of the investment made by the comharchumann sector, not for the social economy.
up until last year, obstacles were continually posed by third countries to european legislation being applicable to their airlines, and this was to the extent that aviation had never been applied to the emissions trading system (ets) in its original scope.
eu provisions on flights between the eu and third countries have been suspended twice with a view to encouraging the international civil aviation organization process to agree on a global strategy to decrease aviation emissions.
it is imperative that we take measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions, particularly from international aviation.
this is essential to keep global warming below the two degrees above pre-industrial levels as agreed in the 2015 paris agreement on climate change, where i had the honour of representing this parliament.
as the international aviation sector is a rapidly developing source of greenhouse gas emissions, this report marks a welcome step in parliament’s work on the eu ets, and i support the progress on the same.
what about climate change?
but without a doubt, i think the eu has a great responsibility to fight climate change and our emissions and pollution, and we have done a lot already.