i think that i can be the best guarantee of parliament's autonomy from the commission and the council, having never participated in any g5 - at most i have contested the g8 - of equal dignity for all members, of parliament's functioning not being blocked by agreement between the major groups, of parliament's real power of legislative initiative, of a revision of the treaties 60 years after those of rome, of the end of the waste of two seats for the european parliament.
i will work for a parliament that engages citizens through large forums on the central issues of our lives, from the relationship between democracy and finance to sustainable development, climate change, culture.
i am guided by the compass of faith in reason and science, in the intelligence of men and peoples, in the christian ethic of caring for people, community and the environment.
actually, free trade means trade with rules, which enables trading partners to have an easier trading environment, and this is the way we can govern globalisation and make it more socially and environmentally responsible.
many of our citizens think that the eu should play a bigger role in energy policy and, of course, in the fight against climate change and on migration issues.
if we look at our ambitious agenda today – for instance, our latest proposal on services, the digital internal market, the energy package, low-carbon mobility, the circular economy, border control and defence – it is fair to say that europe will be more closely integrated in five years’ time than it is at the moment.
i think that efforts should be concentrated on reviving railways and inland waterways, encouraging the development of electric and alternative fuel modes of transport, and introducing fuel standards for heavy commercial vehicles and co2 emission limits, thus following up on the european sustainable transport strategy and the paris agreements.
in the list of proposed initiatives i would like to highlight three: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, speed, sustainability, efficiency are the key words for organizing the flow of goods and information from their point of origin to their destination.
second item a statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the management of migration along the central mediterranean route is added as the third item on the agenda, after the commission statement on the state of the energy union.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on the state of the energy union (2017/2523(rsp)).
i am very pleased to see that the so-called winter package contains a number of proposals for prosumers and energy communities.
it is certainly a step forward, and i welcome it and congratulate the commissioner on it, but at the same time there are steps backwards, in our view, which could undo any progress towards the climate and energy objectives that the union has set itself.
this is without considering the climate and geopolitical benefits of the renewable transition.
we know that there are reliable studies - i can provide them, but you will know them - that estimate the potential for decentralised energy production by citizens at european level with impressive data: in 2030, 112 million prosumers, including schools, local communities and hospitals, would have the potential, on their own, to meet 19% of the energy demand in the european union.
the productivity of our industrial manufacturing system is at stake, the environment is at stake, the health of our citizens is at stake.
i think about consumers and all the possibilities of distributed energy.
it's not a niche, it can become a real... (interrupted by the president)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, technological change, political commitments in the field of the environment, the continuing change in the international situation and the increasing energy efficiency in almost all the global economies are imposing major changes on the energy market.
yet the energy europe remains a collection of weakly integrated national markets with a paltry physical exchange, different operating mechanisms and wide divergence in internal prices.
it is essential that europe finds unity in the energy field, starting with the issue of a single gas market: europe's dependence on imports highlights the need for a common european market in natural gas to ensure both storage and delivery capacity, so that any interruption in supplies can be absorbed without trauma.
the failure of the ecsc and euratom, which were created to avoid the risk of energy insecurity, must make us reflect on the mistakes we have made and give fresh impetus to a broad-ranging energy policy, an energy union with an ambitious and stable regulatory framework.
the second state of the energy union report highlights the start of the transition to a low-carbon economy to meet the 2020 targets for emission reductions, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
the report highlights the good progress towards the completion of the energy union: the eu is now on the right track, particularly in terms of reducing emissions and renewables, which are becoming increasingly competitive, with a total consumption of just under 20%.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union in the member states and in the union's external action.
the report is clearly forward-looking, setting out priorities not only for the energy sector, but also taking into account socio-economic aspects, such as the need to accelerate the drive to the economy, exploiting the employment potential of green sectors in line with the trends of the circular economy and climate diplomacy.
i am sure that parliament will help to consolidate this process, starting with the substantial work ahead on the legislative dossiers of the clean energy for all europeans package presented last november.
around 40 000 jobs depend directly or indirectly on banana production and the sector ensures the sustainability of maritime links, allowing these regions to be regularly supplied.
instead, it is appropriate to invest in the specificity of the european supply chain, focusing on innovation and sustainability and maintaining high standards for the entire sector.
a well-known fishing company has been accused of, among other things, falsifying documents and committing crimes against the environment by fishing in the antarctic, for a turnover of 100 million euros.
the point i would like to draw to the attention of this house is that of the dormant agreements, which at present create a regulatory vacuum that could affect the sustainability of resource management in waters outside the european union.
the real risk of these agreements is that non-eu countries that do not recognise the high sustainability standards we do - for example social and economic sustainability - can take over the surplus capture in a predatory way and that does not take into account the cooperation aspects underlying our agreements.
it is important to stress that the eu's external fishing fleets represent the cfp at international level and that the european union has achieved considerable results in terms of sustainability standards, which must be consistently achieved in the external dimension as well.
the priority must therefore be to direct resources towards sports activities that are cohesive, sustainable and that actually add value to the places that host them.
i voted in favour of this report because it makes it clear that adoption is not the right of a couple to become parents but the right of a child to live in a stable, loving and caring environment.
of course, great progress has been made in terms of the environment, sustainability, and the repopulation of fish, but fishermen have seen the rules and regulations that they have to comply with multiply and have had to undertake costly restructuring.
(parliament agreed to the request)
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the committee on biological low risk pesticides by herbert dorfmann, pavel poc, julie girling, frédérique ries, lynn boylan, bart staes, eleonora evi, mireille d'ornano, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000147/2016 - b8-1821/2016).
in order to reduce the environmental and health impact of industrial products, including agricultural products, we must have the courage to make it easier for companies who believe in the green economy to do so.
natural molecules and pesticides can reduce the overall impact of treatments, by reducing emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases during production and by reducing the impact on biodiversity and non-target organisms and on human health.
the real innovation today, commissioner, is to adopt the agro-ecological approach, to improve soil fertility, to diversify production, to increase carbon sequestration capacity, to ensure adequate harvests and to tackle pest and weed control, monitoring natural dynamics.
the review of the consensus, which will serve as a framework for european development policies in the years ahead, could not come at a better time, now that we finally have to have a plan for the implementation and monitoring at european level of the new sustainable development agenda.
we therefore need coherent development policies, from tackling inequality to climate change, from the use of new resources for development to the commitment to reach 0.7%, to a relentless fight against tax evasion and avoidance that do so much damage to the poorest countries.
in this respect, sustainable agriculture must be recognised as playing a leading role.
they are a perfect example of the virtuous convergence between development and sustainability and a priority lane for achieving the sustainable development goals.
the european union needs to make this sector a pillar of its development policies, investing in climate resilient agricultural systems, promoting green practices and improving the productivity of family farms.
but there has been very little debate about the real effectiveness of the ets in reducing emissions.
no one has explained to us, for example, how we can be sure that a percentage reduction, the so-called linear reduction factor, or the gradual reduction of the emission allowances allocated to installations, will actually reduce emissions.
in fact, since actual emissions are only known for the year after they occur, the only certainty that can be had is that plants emitting more than they are entitled to will simply have to buy additional emission permits to those previously received.
but those who hope that this money will be used to finance measures to compensate for emissions already in the atmosphere are wrong, it is only an illusion, there is no obligation for the member states in this respect.
but wasn't the ets supposed to encourage low-carbon innovation?
in our view, more ambitious and binding targets on renewables, efficiency and energy savings could lead to much more tangible and immediate results.
a complex dossier, a dossier in which everyone has collaborated to give a long-term vision, improve the quality of the environment and contribute with a collective effort to reduce carbon emissions.
perhaps there is still something to be corrected so that some sectors can still find a place in the europe of growth, but on the other hand the line is drawn and i believe and i want to invite all the political groups to support by the final vote, whatever the small changes made, a large legislative package that takes us on the road to the paris agreement to achieve the long-term, ambitious objectives that we have defended in parliament and that we will have to continue to negotiate with the council, indicating a long-term road that is an important road, that of the progressive decarbonisation of our economy and a better environment in which we want our children and our descendants to live.
the commission should continue to investigate anti-competitive practices in the online digital sector and speed up procedures on antitrust and taxation issues in a timely manner, so as to ensure that smes and digital startups can operate in a more balanced and fair competition environment in a market that is often driven by multinational digital giants.
the commission must take decisive action to safeguard competition in the telecommunications and energy sectors in order to encourage affordable prices and service choices.
where is the concrete answer to the real priorities of the citizens, to climate change, unemployment, the devastating social consequences of the crisis, which you also mention?
a strong response is needed to the continued instability of the banking environment in europe.
we want to protect jobs, the environment, food safety and the citizens of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that free trade agreements should really be put at the service of broader objectives such as employment, human rights, cohesion and sustainable development.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ceta is contrary to principles and standards which i believe are absolutely non-negotiable, from the approach to food safety to measures on endocrine disruptors, from commitments to achieve climate and energy objectives to maximum levels for pesticide residues, from the arbitration mechanism to the spaces for private intervention in public services, from the risk of entry of gmo products to the protection of quality production.
it is a pity that ceta has not marked a break in continuity and that europe has not steered the negotiations towards greater protection of consumer rights, the precautionary principle and environmental clauses.
the masks of hypocrisy of those who sell ceta as a simple and trivial agreement with canada, based on shared principles and values, a cornerstone of sustainable trade.
considering that we had to play this game again, we played it hard, supporting all the amendments to increase the ambition of the system as much as possible, such as ‘rebasing’, meaning adjusting the starting level to actual emissions in order to get rid of the huge surplus pollution permits and adopting the mechanism to include importers of cement and clinker.
we do not believe that the inclusion of the maritime sector in the ets would be a good deal for the environment.
shipping is a sector that has a big margin of improvement in terms of reducing its emissions by pushing the transition to less carbon fossil fuels in a stronger manner, rather than starting a market-based approach again.
i hope the eu will realise soon that trying to fix the ets again will not bring any real reduction in emissions and any real investment in clean production.
the sooner this happens, the better for the climate.
we will strongly support this resolution where it deals with the sustainability of our tax and social security systems, by considering the introduction of a universal basic income.
in two years, the growing need to ensure data privacy and maximum inclusiveness, speed in network installation, suitability of backup plans and respect for the environment on the internet has made this definition more and more relevant.
it is no coincidence that creating the best possible environment with high quality data, data analytics and secure services is increasingly making our smes more competitive.
the esi funds are designed to reduce regional disparities, to generate smart, inclusive and sustainable growth, also aimed at creating quality jobs in our territories and improving the quality of life of our citizens.
on the environment issue, following icao’s landmark agreement, we are now focused on getting the global scheme up and running.
we are serious about achieving carbon-neutral growth for aviation and we will provide technical and financial assistance to make it happen globally.
in its proposal adopted earlier this month, the commission is proposing to continue with the current geographic scope of the eu emissions trading systems for aviation, covering flights between airports in the european economic area.
airspace is part of the eu's single market and inefficient or irrational use of airspace, such as that caused by divergent national practices for operating procedures, taxes and levies, causes real inconvenience to citizens, increased costs and flight times, as well as higher fuel consumption and higher co2 emissions.
francesca ramirez fights for the nicaraguan farmers and for the protection of the environment.
the most affected by intimidation are activists fighting against impunity and corruption and for the protection of the environment, who are often the victims of outright smear campaigns by local businesses.
violence occurs in a climate of total impunity for the perpetrators.
we share the same vision of an open world and the need to work together to provide concrete answers to the problems of our citizens, whether it be the fight against terrorism, security, the management of migration flows, growth and jobs or climate change.
we've worked together on climate change and on the rights of women and girls around the world.
ceta ensures that governments can continue to protect their citizens: protecting the workforce, promoting responsible investment practices, ensuring food safety and consumer safety, strengthening forest, fisheries and aquaculture management, and ensuring good environmental management.
friends, this is truly one of the most sustainable and progressive trade agreements in the world.
we must complete the european monetary union and build a sustainable europe capable of fighting climate change and creating jobs and growth.
in particular, it is clear that we must complete economic and monetary union if we are to make it sustainable and a factor of growth.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
in this context, only responsible but clearly growth-oriented fiscal policies can help to put the current recovery on a more sustainable footing and to promote growth and employment.
i hope that the same cohesion will be shown in the debate on the mediterranean route, where italy is devoting daily energy and resources to dealing with an emergency which affects the whole of europe.
this is a matter of fairness, but keeping the pay gap and keeping the barriers for women who want to combine better family duties and work is also a matter of alarming economic short-sightedness, because we have very telling figures showing that not enabling women to go to work if they want to combine work with their family duties – with better help from men, of course – is a great waste of talent.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a malfunctioning internal energy market puts the union in a vulnerable and disadvantaged position as regards the security of energy supply and jeopardises the potential benefits for consumers and industry.
the strategic objective of the energy union is to provide access to secure, sustainable and competitively priced energy.
i believe that the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements between member states and third countries in the field of energy, while moving in the right direction and limiting the individualism of member states, does not fully meet the need for prior information.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mrs cabezón, for the work she has done here, also on behalf of mr corrao, of the committee on development, since the work they have done in that committee and in the committee on the environment has been well received, especially with regard to the issues that have been identified and highlighted with regard to the developing countries.
a growing sector that needs advanced regulations, not just to ensure the safety of medicines, but also the quality of innovation and sustainability of health systems for an aging population.
i would also like to stress that there is a subject connected with the waste of medicines, which we should also deal with, and on which i have just today submitted a written question to the commission, asking the member states to take action to promote the recovery of medicines that are valid and have expired.
we are talking about tons of medicines that end up in waste each year, causing significant environmental damage, as well as economic damage to the systems... (the president withdrew the floor).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union imports canadian wheat which, under north american law, should be disposed of as waste, whereas here in europe it becomes pasta, bread, pizza, flour and sweets.
the creative europe programme has proven to be useful in anticipating new trends in relevant fields, linking culture and creativity, promoting the circulation of young talented artists, audience development in the digital single market ecosystem and, in line with the 2005 unesco convention, cultural diversity at international level.
the union should aim to support training in producer countries not only of customs and crime-fighting authorities but also of producer associations, cooperatives and social enterprises, which enable local communities to benefit from legal sustainable trade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments between member states and third countries in the energy sector could be a step forward in ensuring legal transparency on past and future agreements.
this instrument should facilitate and promote forms of coordination between producer countries, transit countries and consumer countries, but it could also make it possible to take giant steps towards involving the populations affected by the effects of these agreements, particularly with regard to the construction of infrastructures which also have an impact on the environment, such as gas pipelines, oil pipelines and regasifiers.
the information exchange mechanism should also be based on the legal significance of the correct application of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters, the purpose of which is to guarantee citizens the right to transparency and participation in local, national and crossborder decision-making processes concerning the environment and therefore also the infrastructures already mentioned, in essence, legal assessments are welcome, without omitting any aspect.
healthcare is a fundamental right of european citizens, but insufficient access to essential medicines and high prices of innovative medicines pose a serious threat to the sustainability of national healthcare systems.
only 15% of projects are funded, but and this is the percentage is likely to discourage the contenders: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of renewable energy sources.
the agenda includes the report by mr stefan eck, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on mercury repealing regulation (ec) no 1102/2008 (com ((2016) 0039 - c8-0021/2016 - 2016/0023 ((cod)) (a8-0313/2016)).
as top mercury-polluters take action to implement the convention, we expect a dramatic drop of mercury emissions to air and water worldwide, leading to reduced exposure to mercury within the eu.
the entry into force of the minamata convention will help level the playing field, as all major economies will apply requirements similar to those already applying in the eu on products, industrial processes and waste management.
the new regulation will also ensure that all known industrial processes using mercury convert to mercury-free alternatives and that mercury waste is safely start out of reach, thereby avoiding its improper use and release into the environment.
commission statement on international cooperation on mercury the minamata convention and the new mercury regulation are major contributions to protecting citizens from mercury pollution globally and in the eu.
the european commission is therefore committed to supporting continued cooperation, in accordance with the convention and subject to applicable eu policies, rules and procedures, inter alia undertaking work in the following areas:narrowing the gap between eu law and the provisions of the convention through the review clause of the list of prohibited mercury-added products; in the context of the provisions of the convention on financing, capacity building and technology transfer, activities such as improving traceability of mercury trade and use, promoting certification of mercury-free artisanal and small-scale gold mining and mercury-free labels for gold, and increasing the capacity of developing countries including in the area of mercury waste management.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the environment, but that we should be concerned about the environment.
for this reason it is necessary to regulate their uses and movements and to decide in advance how to treat them when they become waste with the aim, where possible, of reducing or eliminating all their uses within a reasonable period of time.
this is the logic we followed in the negotiations with the council and the commission, which were concluded last december with a broad consensus, which was then unanimously adopted by the committee on the environment.
this is currently the first use of mercury in europe and presents several risks to the health of citizens and the environment.
several manufacturing processes that still use mercury will, thanks to the commitment of the european parliament, have an expiry date and companies will be encouraged to find more environmentally sustainable alternatives.
finally, the waste.
we also know that, when dispersed in the environment, it can be converted into a more complex and harmful compound, methylmercury, which also has the ability to cross the placental barrier, inhibiting the mental development of babies before they're born.
but despite this, the world's use of mercury remains high - some 3 600 tonnes a year - and the pollution it causes knows no borders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the widespread use of mercury throughout the world raises serious health and environmental problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, transparency, control and sustainability.
this, together with other provisions on transparency measures for institutional investors and asset managers, who will have to undertake to describe their relationship with the companies in which they invest, will only increase the commitment and long-term sustainability of equity investment in this type of company.
after two years of negotiations, we have european legislation which, for the first time, does not simply name shareholders but recognises the role of workers and other stakeholders, ensures controls and provides for shareholders' voting on the remuneration policy of directors of listed companies, also on the basis of performance and taking into account corporate social responsibility, and introduces greater transparency on social and environmental impacts.
– mr president, the debate has shown that we all share an understanding of the main goals of this directive, namely more transparency and more investor responsibility so that investors and directors consider the long-term consequences of their actions and also ensure the sustainability of eu capital markets.
the systematic use of drugs to compensate for the inadequate environmental and health conditions of intensive farming should be prohibited and other types of rabbit breeding such as park systems, improved terrestrial breeding and organic breeding should be promoted.
to improve transparency and safety at all stages of the food chain, it is essential to require that the indication... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to denounce an emergency: there is a serious environmental contamination taking place to the detriment of the citizens of alexandria and the province.
the piedmont environment agency has detected concentrations of 305 000 asbestos fibres per litre in groundwater near the city.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agri-food sector is growing and is often a prime area for investment in the underworld, with dangerous impacts on the health of citizens and the environment.
the package we are about to discuss and vote on today is only formally amending four waste directives.
but i think it would be absolutely reductive to relegate it to the realm of environmental policy or waste policy.
i think that what we have before us today is, in effect, a package which poses a very profound challenge to us, which is the challenge of setting up a new sustainable industrial model, that is to say, of making sure that environmental sustainability can be considered one of the levers of the competitiveness of our economic system.
so, we have the opportunity today to get out of this crisis and move towards the transition to a circular economy which, if you look closely, means not only recovering raw materials from waste but also inserting a virtuous circle such that value is created throughout the life cycle of a product.
in short, this means more sustainable growth, it means jobs, it means, as i said earlier, boosting competitiveness, it also means focusing on innovation and new technologies and thus opening up our economic system to new opportunities.
not only because waste prevention is the first level of the waste hierarchy, but because, in our view, waste prevention is a clear indicator of how much we are moving towards a circular economy.
let me explain: to produce less waste means to have set in motion all those innovations in production processes, products, business models that tell us how far we are moving towards a circular economy system.
i would like to mention among the preventive measures the clearest definition of end of waste or by-products, the minimum requirements of extended producer responsibility, specific measures throughout the product's useful life such as reuse and planned obsolescence, but also, mr president, two ambitious but very important targets: the first is the 50% reduction in food waste, which is not only an environmental policy measure but also an ethical issue, and the second is the 50% reduction in marine litter, which, i recall, are two objectives of the united nations' osh, but which were not provided for in european legislation and we have filled this void.
clearly, the prerequisite for an efficient market in secondary raw materials of high quality is high quality separate collection, which we have also extended to the compulsory collection of organic and textile waste.
we are talking about 7% of total waste and it is clear that we must close the loop by including industrial and commercial waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support this package of legislation as approved by the committee on the environment because it improves the present situation, by introducing more ambitious targets on recycling, more ambitious targets on preparing for reuse and also more restrictions on incineration, as well as on landfilling.
we would have liked to see more courageous and concrete action, such as a total ban on the incineration of waste.
instead, as in italy, we have a waste tax which has increased by 400% in less than three years, at least in some cases for artisans, traders and households.
such a measure should have reduced the cost of the waste tax.
a measure of this kind, over 230 pages long, had to have an ambitious theme, a vital theme, of survival for families and for businesses: reducing the costs of the waste tax.
we need to grow but in a different way, smarter, more respectful of the environment and people.
food waste is a scandal.
through education against waste and waste prevention actions along the entire production chain; by encouraging, through tax incentives, a clearer regulatory framework; and the feeding of the needy.
a serious policy against food waste can create new and good jobs.
it is essential to pursue an industrial transition towards an economic system which takes the environment first.
a 30% improvement in resource productivity by 2030 would translate, for example, into a 1% increase in gdp, create more than two million new jobs and put us on a virtuous path, more resource efficient and more beneficial for the related ecological, economic and social benefits.
our waste package is part of our circular economy package and the circular economy package is part of a much broader societal change leading to a sustainable society.
part of that is a sustainable economy, sustainable social systems and a sustainable environment.
i maintain that the longer we wait with the waste package and the less ambitious we are with the waste package, the higher the cost will be.
we saw it with the norms we had in the internal market and we will see it with the norms we have on waste.
by the way, efsi funds are available for investment in this, so, if you make the investment, the gains will be huge and you will make the transition to a sustainable economy more quickly than others.
i am not unaware of the differences in the waste management systems of the member states and i want to say loud and clear that no country should be left behind.
the european union must intervene to save those areas, such as the so-called triangle of death in sicily, where the petrochemical industries have destroyed the environment and dramatically compromised the health of the citizens.
it is essential that, firstly, contaminated sites are identified and treated in an environmentally friendly manner, so as to put an end to the pollution of nature and the exposed populations who are often already suffering the economic consequences of the closure of industries which, by blackmailing them with a monthly salary, have been poisoning them for decades.
i am thinking of the protection of children's rights and gender equality in the framework of the programme for the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and, finally, of the condemnation of terrorism and acts of violence and crimes against humanity by terrorist organisations.
among the many noteworthy issues mentioned in the resolution, i would like to emphasize once again the urgent need to intervene in favour of human rights defenders, who are fighting to defend the environment and people from the speculations of governments and multinationals, and who continue to suffer numerous and serious attacks in various parts of the world.
what are we doing to curb the overpowering power of the multinationals which are devastating the environment, the land and the very lives of entire local populations?
at the next session of the un human rights council, the european union has the opportunity to stress certain human rights priorities: first of all, respect for children's rights, to monitor the extent to which un member states are implementing the sustainable development agenda to halve the number of children living in poverty by 2030. the european union must take the lead in defining an international legally binding framework for business aimed at eliminating malnutrition, violence, child labour and promoting access to education for all children.
in this year's guidelines - and i thank the rapporteur, mr muraşan, for the excellent and fruitful cooperation - we have tried to identify the areas of action on which the union must concentrate in order to respond to citizens who are asking what is the point of this europe again - from sustainable growth to research as the key to youth employment, from investment as a tool for innovation to migration issues - supported with full force by the european parliament.
but we must not forget the climate change we are seeing, for example, around lake chad right now and the drought that is now affecting certain parts of africa.
we work on the root causes that make these places highly vulnerable to climate change, the epicenter of crisis of enormous scale, starting with the conflicts that rob these doubly abused populations of any capacity for resilience.
this means a strong social pillar, a european investment strategy that creates jobs through energy transition, circular economy, digital connectivity for all.
what are the environmental, health and climate impacts?
i think about the importance of electronic health services, such as support for mobile phones and patient monitoring devices, as well as smart energy networks and the internet of things revolution.
that is why waste and duplication should be eliminated so that savings can be reinvested in other things or at least not increase expenditure.
this has caused enormous damage to the environment, of which the worst of all is climate change.
now climate change is having its very serious impact on a very delicate environment, which is the arctic, and we, instead of standing up to defend this environment that is suffering badly from the consequences of climate change, we see it as a new frontier of resources to be exploited again without thinking about the consequences and only at some point, looking back, we will see what we have caused.
who causes this climate change and the exploitation of fossil resources?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must act swiftly to safeguard the arctic to avoid the area's militarization and to preserve the fragile ecosystem from climate change and aggressive competition for natural resources.
the arctic environment is particularly fragile and requires policies that promote sustainable development, taking into account the specific characteristics of the places.
the european union must work in international fora to promote a shared arctic strategy that will achieve the goal of a low-carbon economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the arctic is a precious ecosystem which plays a crucial role in regulating ocean currents and the climate of the entire planet.
as the ice sheets recede due to climate change, it becomes easier and easier to exploit these waters rich in life and natural resources.
overfishing, shipping, and drilling for fossil fuels threaten this ecosystem.
the risk of a race to exploit, as well as an environmental catastrophe, can lead to geopolitical and military tensions in these international waters and on this land that should belong to no one.
we welcome this report and call for the eu to be the leader of a new way of managing this area, which should not be exploited for its resources but rather become a great space for research and monitoring of climate change: a true arctic sanctuary.
i am less convinced by the analysis of the view of disaffection of the citizens: i don't think it's apathy, as the report says, because there's a lot of passion in today's waste.
– madam president, as this important report underlines, e-democracy is about grasping the potential of the internet to strengthen democracy in a digital environment.
but data are also needed to evaluate eu policies: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
for this reason, an eu framework for the collection and management of fisheries data was established in 2000, which became the data collection framework (dcf) in 2008, and represented an important step forward in the development of a harmonised set of union standards for the collection of biological, environmental, technical and socioeconomic data on fisheries, aquaculture and processing.
the common fisheries policy requires us to manage fishing activities with due regard for their impact on the ecosystem.
this is particularly important in order to achieve the maximum sustainable yield (msy) by 2020. maximum sustainable yield is a relatively new and very important concept, but it is based on numerical values which must be established in a scientific manner and on the basis of data, studies and research.
what we have achieved, thanks to the work we have done together with the shadow rapporteurs, with whom there has been a great deal of agreement on this report and a great deal of sharing especially in the difficult moments of the discussion with the council, is an expanded scope to include the collection of data for the protection of the marine environment, that is, data which are used to assess the impact of fishing on the marine ecosystem, including vulnerable marine areas and the most sensitive species and habitats.
this, of course, together with the data needed for the sustainable management of all commercially exploited species and in particular for the achievement of good ecological status by 2020. we have included the need to cover those fisheries which are so called data deficient, i.e.
without the necessary support of current scientific knowledge; we also wanted to make this data available to everyone: institutions, researchers, environmental associations and anyone interested in studying and evaluating them.
we have the environmental impact of recreational fishing.
at the same time, it is necessary to avoid the collection of the same data for different purposes, as this would lead to an unnecessary waste of resources.
in addition to assessing the state of fish stocks, the profitability of the various segments of the sector and the impact of fisheries and aquaculture on the ecosystem, data are needed to assess eu policies such as fisheries management and mitigation measures.
the data will be available to all institutions, researchers, environmental associations and anyone interested in studying and evaluating them.
for the first time, data from other sectors that impact on the marine ecosystem, such as recreational fisheries and aquaculture, will also be included in the framework for data collection and management.
this is an important step forward which will contribute to the sustainable development of fisheries, thus limiting the impact on the marine ecosystem.
it is clear that to have good fisheries policies and to achieve the objective of sustainable fishing, both from an environmental and socioeconomic point of view, we cannot do without a deep knowledge of the fisheries resources we are going to exploit and the consequences of our decisions and actions on the marine environment, resources and the economic sector.
in this climate, the activist for the rights of the most disadvantaged, baptist pastor evan mawarire, considered the martin luther king of zimbabwe, has become the symbol of the protest, which calls for transparency in the action of government and dignity for every citizen of zimbabwe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
europe is the world's second largest importer of this product, but precisely because of this it is also in a position to dictate the rules on the international market for this product and to demand respect for human rights and the environment far more than any convention or agreement.
differentiated customs duties to reward those who produce in a sustainable way; full traceability of palm oil throughout the supply chain to understand who is actually producing in compliance with the rules; and finally, we called for the use of free trade agreements to promote clear and binding rules on sustainable development, the environment and human rights in producing countries.
i thank the rapporteur and the whole committee on the environment for having decided to adopt our main recommendations and to reflect them in the final text, which will certainly have our support.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done and that we have done in recent months to deal with a subject which is certainly important, which has to do with the environment, which has to do with people's health, but which should have been dealt with with the seriousness and also the depth of the work that was required.
in fact, the question of palm oil and the need for it to be grown in a sustainable way has opened our eyes to realities such as indonesia, where respect for the environment is not always guaranteed, but it has also made us understand that there are other countries in southeast asia - in particular we are referring to other realities, other states - where we have found and have found greater respect for the environment, greater education, greater maturity, greater sensitivity, greater awareness of the need to ensure that production is made in a sustainable way and that it is done in respect for the environment.
this is fundamental if we think of countries like malaysia, which have also made important investments to differentiate themselves from those who have been elements of exploitation, of disrespect for the environment of these productions.
and while we have seen some countries make positive differences, we must not forget - because we are here in the european parliament - that the major european industries which have used palm oil in europe over the years have always done so in a self-sufficient and voluntary respect for this sustainable balance.
we know, and we must know, that large italian and european companies have already done so, and have done so voluntarily, because of their commitment, because sensitivity is a sensitivity to using a product which is not harmful in itself, because it is a vegetable oil that exists in nature, but which must be used and marketed in a way that respects the environment.
in the producing countries, despite much proclamation, there is still a lack of a change of course to stop the destruction of the rain forests, which provide invaluable ecosystem services for us and for future generations.
i would also like to see this report adopted tomorrow because it incorporates many of the demands that the five star movement has put forward in the work of the committee on the environment.
the first: the need to support land surveys in producer countries to control plantation expansion and to create ecological corridors dedicated to the conservation of critically endangered species.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can all agree on one thing today: we need to use palm oil that is produced in a sustainable way and we need to stop this deforestation, especially in indonesia.
the guarantee of social protection for women in agriculture is an essential element in contributing to modern and sustainable rural development.
in addition, maintaining an active population is of great importance for the conservation of the environment and ecosystems, and rural tourism is a source of employment and an incentive for the population to stay in the area.
given that more than 2 million family farms disappeared in the eu between 2005 and 2010, the importance of this issue is understandable and the report presented aims to highlight the multifunctional and active role of women in rural areas as promoters of sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture.
firstly, the timing: it has been ten years since the nedc test was known to be outdated and unrepresentative, more than ten years since the environment agency reports warning of discrepancies between laboratory and real emissions, four years since the joint research centre report mentioning the possible use of illegal software, and seven years since the design of pems, which, among other things, give the car industry a further gift thanks to very generous compliance factors, namely the famous nox limit multipliers - again a number that has all the flavour of a political choice, without any technical or scientific basis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the volkswagen scandal clearly demonstrates that a market without clear rules and adequate controls leads to imbalances, unfair competition and serious damage to the environment.
then let 's get this straight: it is not by lowering environmental standards that we win international competition.
let's not waste this opportunity to show that we are autonomous, independent and have the power to choose.
the first point i wish to make in relation to the specific content of this year's work - and i am doing so in the presence of the commissioner - is that we cannot, even though we have identified a number of shortcomings, deficiencies and corrections to be made, make the mistake of transferring to the directorate-general for the environment responsibilities which are specifically to be assigned to the directorate-general for industry.
the fact that we have identified some criticisms of the environmental impact of certain industrial practices does not mean that industry has to take a step back from an institutional point of view.
because here we can afford, as has always been the case in europe, to preside over the level of sustainable development in which europe is the world champion.
the commission should have acted to mitigate the central role played by industry representatives, who are overrepresented in the meetings of the working party on real-life emissions from light vehicles.
ladies and gentlemen, we are still in time to respond to these needs and therefore to vote for the establishment of a european vehicle monitoring agency which delivers a more efficient and more transparent system, and which is finally able to restore the betrayed confidence of citizens and consumers and guarantee a high level of protection of health and the environment.
but i also say: those who dismiss democratic institutions and parliaments as a waste of time, those who declare willingness to compromise as weakness and, above all, those who no longer insist on the distinction between fact and falsehood, are touching the very foundation of democracy and will, must, hear our resolute, our common opposition as democrats!
but it's not only naive, it's irresponsible to trick people into thinking that you can put walls and fences around dangers like terrorism or climate change that know no borders.
this definition, which unfortunately does not appear in the regulation in question, should include, in addition to the size of the vessel, attributes such as the length of the vessels, variables relating to their range, their social role in coastal communities, the ecological impact, the fishing capacity and the economic data relating to the undertaking.
while the world's largest companies reassure consumers to make ethical choices by buying products that claim to use sustainable palm oil, they continue to turn a blind eye to the exploitation of millions of workers in their own supply chains.
in the report we have approved today, the european parliament calls for the introduction of minimum sustainability criteria for palm oil and the adoption of a binding regulatory framework to ensure that all the supply chains of importers of agricultural commodities are traceable back to the origin of the raw material.
all greece's partners must now come together to put an end to this damaging uncertainty and finally create a sustainable cycle of virtuous recovery.
the progress made over the past 18 months must be sustained and strengthened to ensure what the country and the euro area need, namely a sustainable recovery.
finally, i will mention the various measures adopted in the fields of product markets, the business environment and the legal system.
the second major subject of negotiation is the energy market.
finally, the commission will also continue to encourage all efforts towards a more sustainable greek debt.
the implementation of structural reform, a balanced solution for the labour market which would safeguard the right of collective bargaining, and additional fiscal safeguards – and also the possibility of expansionary measures if greece outperforms its targets, as it is currently doing – could be the basis for an agreement to put greece on the path towards sustainable growth.
finally, creditors should recognise that the primary surplus of 3.5% is achievable, but it is sustainable only for a very short time.
we are talking about cutting pensions and we are at the 13th cut in five years, tell me if this is sustainable.
and now the privatization of the energy company, after the ports and airports.
this goes against the long-term objectives of addressing the root causes of migration: it's a threat to peace, conflict, climate change, inequality, and it goes against the goals of sustainable development.
i am, however, confident that this review is a first step towards sound, fair and sustainable budgetary planning and that parliament's concerns will be adequately taken into account in the new post-2020 financial framework.
truth number two: any future agreement with the united kingdom will be conditional on compliance with the union's social, environmental and fiscal standards.
and all the financial commitments that are made, as happens in all families, when you leave your house and move to another house, you have to pay for electricity, gas, energy.
we will want an agreement which is fully in line with our standards on the environment, the fight against tax evasion and the protection of social rights.
i am convinced that both as council and as presidency, as i said: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation.
and it is of little use to deny the national authorities these days, if among the exceptional circumstances is that of economic unsustainability - an exception, by the way, renewable from year to year.
minister dalli in particular reiterated the importance of economic empowerment for women and girls and gender equality, which are also prerequisites for achieving the goals set out in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
the council is concerned about the reinstatement of the global gag rule, and its implications on the target of achieving universal coverage in health and reproductive health services, and eventually on the targets within the sustainable development goals to reduce maternal mortality and empower women.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the main priorities of this edition of the commission on the status of women, which i attended together with the femm delegation, were the economic empowerment of women, the challenges and objectives in achieving sustainable development for women and girls and the empowerment of indigenous women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are here today to bring to the attention of the european institutions - for the umpteenth time - this phenomenon, which has become a phenomenon, sadly known as 'land of fire', which is in reality an environmental and health emergency in which more than two and a half million european citizens are forced to live in a territory comprising 57 municipalities in the provinces of naples and caserta in southern italy.
more than 6 000 sites have been identified in those areas to date - this is actually still a provisional figure, because research is still ongoing - where toxic waste, 10 million tonnes of toxic and hazardous waste, both urban and industrial, has been dumped or illegally burned, thus turning that land into one of the most polluted areas in the entire european union.
the epidemiological picture of the population living in those parts shows excess mortality and hospitalization for all diseases which can be traced back to the release or combustion of toxic waste.
to this day, there are still these fires, these fires are still there, and the waste is being burned right now.
– mr president, honourable members, mr pedicini, let me start first of all by saying that the commission has been very deeply concerned for many years about the environmental situation from which the region of campania is suffering due to the illegal treatment and mismanagement of waste, and of course about the impact on public health.
the latest public health report issued by the istituto superiore di sanità, which links the abnormally high cancer rate in some parts of campania with the illegal treatment of waste, has been brought to our attention.
given the systematic shortcomings in waste management in campania underpinned by organised crime, the commission has made full use of its powers over the past decade to address the situation.
already in 2007 the commission initiated infringement procedures against italy for a lack of adequate disposal facilities for waste in campania, and this led in 2010 to italy being condemned by the european court of justice.
one year earlier, in 2014, the court of justice had already imposed heavy fines on italy for the existence of illegal disposal of waste, including hazardous waste, throughout practically all the italian territory, including campania.
also in 2014, the commission suspended eu financial assistance corresponding to the financial period 2007-2013 in respect of waste management and disposal in campania.
now it is fair to say that the overall waste management situation in campania has improved since the waste crisis of 2007 and following the government’s appointment of several waste emergency commissioners for the region.
for instance, separate collection of waste in the region is steadily improving, as well as recycling.
at the end of last year, campania adopted a new regional waste management plan which is now being examined by the commission services.
the health and the environmental issues in campania have their roots in the existence of organised crime and an enforcement system which is not coping with it.
to address the eco-mafia, in 2011 europol created a platform for experts from law enforcement agencies, the envicrimenet, dealing with environmental crime.
also to improve enforcement, the commission will adopt later this year a communication setting out an action plan with practical actions for environmental compliance assurance.
this will be aimed, amongst other issues, at helping member states to combat waste crime and offences.
solving the problems derived from the illegal treatment of waste in campania is dependent on all relevant actors working effectively together.
i have listened very carefully to the commissioner's answer to this serious question concerning campania and the enormous pollution in the area.
because if the situation that has arisen there, and it is clearly stated here, is the result of an illegal situation, is the result of illegal waste management, then it is difficult for the european union to be the main one to solve this.
but i am very pleased and this is important here that the commissioner said that the european union is ready to help, it is encouraging and positive for me that it was said that there is money in the structural funds, because i think, as i know the situation from the czech republic, for example, where we have removed environmental burdens and it has cost us hundreds and hundreds of millions of crowns, that without the support of european money, such a large-scale environmental burden can hardly be removed.
so if the european commission were to give the regional government money to repair such enormous environmental damage, i would personally, as a member of the european parliament, welcome and support such a situation.
i ask you: in your view, is the infringement procedure itself, which is a form of tax paid directly by the citizens themselves who are already suffering from health and environmental problems, a working method or not?
but i am also making it clear that italy should be given assistance from the structural funds to deal with this environmental burden, because the national budgets are not in principle able to deal with the large environmental burdens.
"terra de los fuegos" summarizes and emphasizes what happened in these areas between the 1990s and the beginning of the new century: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a manner which is not harmful to the environment.
in february the campania region's paediatric cancer registry was accredited by the italian association of cancer registries and a specific study was started by the institute of zooprophylaxis and the cancer institute of naples on 4 200 subjects from 168 municipalities identified on the basis of three different environmental risk models, in order to exclude interference from low exposure or physiologically related factors related to age.
the operation to remove the eco-balls has been launched, but above all campania has a new waste plan, which will have to bring the region beyond the emergency once and for all.
a few months ago, at a conference attended by doctors and scientists from all over europe, i asked some commission officials - and i repeat my request here - to draw up a manual of good practice, from food hygiene to medical and prevention, to give useful guidance to citizens living in all the high environmental impact areas of europe.
tierra del fuego, along with the many areas suffering from an environmental emergency, should not be considered or perceived as a problem exclusively italian or campania: this is a european emergency.
that we want to remedy the cause of our citizens' illness by teaching them to eat better, rather than saying that pollution is the real cause?
we are talking about a question of environmental justice that has been denied, and we cannot turn a blind eye to it, we cannot use the member state's exclusive competence as an alibi, although we are the first to want to name the responsibilities of the italian and local governments.
we are talking, as was already said in the speeches before me, of an expression, that of 'land of fire', which is becoming commonly used in the 2000s, but in reality the problem we are talking about, that of the illegal dumping of special and toxic waste in the area between the provinces of naples and caserta, dates back to at least the mid-1970s, and investigators such as roberto mancini had already highlighted the problem.
i would remind you that part of the development of small and mediumsized industries in northern italy was also built on the tax-free dumping of processing waste in the soils of tierra del fuego, with the mediation of organized crime, which used land-moving companies, quarries and waste transport to organize traffic.
i am personally in contact, as are other colleagues here in the chamber, with the committees that are responsible for defending environmental justice in the land of fire, and which emphasize the effectiveness to date of the mapping, monitoring and remediation measures provided for by italian law 6/2014e and implemented by the government and the campania region.
there are no operational plans for remediation, no thorough analysis of pollution of the groundwater, and entire areas such as the vesuvius national park are not covered by monitoring.
in the molti quarry, for example, in the municipality of maddaloni, there are an estimated 200 000 cubic metres of already characterized chemical waste, but the situation is stable and there is not only no operational treatment plan, but also no safe disposal.
we find it shameful from this point of view the words of the minister - indeed the minister - of health lorenzin in 2015, who dared to say that the higher mortality rate in campania was due to pollution from vehicles, a poor health system and wrong lifestyles and diet.
i therefore thank my colleagues once again for submitting this request, which is more than legitimate, considering that the european commission fined italy 22 million last february and that, after the european court of justice's 2015 judgment precisely for the waste emergency in campania and the non-compliance with directives 98/2008 and others on the treatment and recycling of waste, it is still difficult to impose a solution to this problem.
i would just like to add that i do not think it is enough - indeed, i think it is profoundly wrong - to turn a problem of economic and social order, of environmental justice of national scope, into a problem of public order, into a problem simply of repression and waste management.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's environmental policy is not only a matter of the environment, but also of the environment.
in tierra del fuego from 1991 to 2013, there were 80 investigations for illegal trafficking of toxic waste, 2,000 complaints, 500 companies involved, 95 defendants for various reasons, including environmental disaster and multiple manslaughter.
already at the end of 2013, with a decree to deal with environmental and industrial emergencies, had established the need to do health screenings to be sure of the correlation between deaths and earth fires as if there was a need screening but then stopped, because the resources were halved.
the government thus demonstrates that it has ignored the fact that the right to the environment is a constituent element of the right to health, which the constitution protects as a primary right with its article 32, thus repeatedly being slow to comply with both community and constitutional obligations, despite the numerous warnings of the european court of justice.
but let us not waste this opportunity and let us try to make a reflection together with commissioner vella which will enable us to take a few steps forward in relation to a matter of which we know all the details.
we finally have a waste collection and disposal plan.
in agreement with the other members, we come back here every six months - perhaps we use the committee on the environment - and we take stock of the situation every six months.
as you have already said, and as i want to remind you, this issue has the face of hundreds and hundreds of people, women and children, who have been made ill over these long years by the dumping of waste, which has been carried out illegally by the camorrista clans, of course, but also by a certain underground economy, which we should also discuss.
it is a serious and painful issue, as i said, because there is a clear and recognized correlation between illegal waste dumping and these cancer diseases: i will not quote all the scientific literature that reminds us of this correlation here.
the "adelphi" operation, which for the first time ascertained the role of the bidognetti clan through gaetano cerci, through the controversial, very dangerous figure of cipriano chianese, is from 1991. in 1995, during the debate on the avolio +19 criminal case, the repentant schiavone was heard for the first time, who indicated, in that debate, the places you will remember it where the waste that he said was radioactive was to be buried.
but the radioactive waste was never found, it was never identified, as federico cafiero de raho, who was then, i would remind you, the head of the dda in naples, has repeatedly said.
a lot has been said in these 20 years, and perhaps not all of it by the way: we have heard many things, but we have seen some kind of short circuit, and at one point i remembered the case of radioactive waste that had never been identified.
law 68 of 2015, which introduced a new section in the penal code dedicated to environmental crimes, is working, it is working because the data processed by the ecomafia commission tells us that it works.
we must embrace one of the un's sustainable development goals, the fifth, which aims to achieve gender equality also through information and communication technologies.
this is the way to build resilience, and this is the way to make our economies competitive and our welfare systems sustainable in the longer term.
these funds will come from the cohesion funds, from horizon 2020 for research projects on cultural heritage, and from other eu programmes supporting the environment, culture, tourism, citizenship and external relations.
it is therefore necessary to provide for measures authorising public, national and european subsidies for the renewal of the small-scale fishing fleet in the outermost regions, within the limits of the permitted fishing capacity, with a view to increasing not only the safety of vessels but also environmental efficiency and the fight against illegal fishing.
support should be provided, in the context of a potential future cfp, to instruments that enable the mitigation of climate impacts with a proven negative impact on vessels.
all instruments that will be suggested in the future should ensure sustainable fisheries and healthy fish stocks.
we call for absolute transparency on procurement and subcontracting, for no funding for projects under investigation for tax fraud and corruption - one in every three of us has a master's degree in italy - and for independent ex ante and ex post evaluations to certify the proven social, economic and environmental added value.
in view of the strategic role of micro-enterprises and smes, the eib should give priority to supporting enterprises in countries with an unfavourable economic and banking environment.
the eurogroup will then also review greece’s medium—term fiscal trajectory and debt sustainability, and let me just say that i believe that the ten-year period of a primary surplus target of 3.5 per cent should be shortened.
finally, the commission will also continue to support efforts to make greek debt more sustainable.
it is evident, as you said, that the primary surplus of 3.5 can be sustainable only for a very limited period of time.
let us not waste this opportunity; let us not miss the deadline again.
in general, the eib is involved in supporting infrastructure projects with a serious environmental impact, with a very low employment impact and with little economic or social added value.
supporting economic recovery, sustainable growth and strengthening cohesion is a key objective of european policies.
structural challenges, in particular those related to the reindustrialisation of europe and the digital economy, need to be better addressed in order to create new economic opportunities, promote the development of a circular economy and enhance the use of renewable energy, in line with the objectives of environmental, climate and energy policies.
the fisheries that are being defended here are sustainable fisheries, those mentioned in the latest reform of the common policy and which are in no way threatened by these vessels, which, moreover, hold only a minimal percentage of the fishing quotas in their seas.
the common fisheries policy is not perfect, especially for our mediterranean, but that is why we must do everything we can to support local fisheries, within the limits of the law and environmental sustainability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is truly unacceptable that in times of economic crisis each citizen of the european union should waste on average 173 kilograms of food per year, and on the other hand, if this is an average, it means that there are poor people who waste nothing, because they have little more than nothing, and therefore there are rich people who waste twice or even much more than twice this enormous amount.
we will support any proposal to reduce this waste, such as the gradual reduction in the price of foodstuffs as they approach their natural expiry date.
on the other hand, at the same time, we believe that it is really unacceptable that in times of ecological crisis there is food waste.
food has a negative impact on the environment when it's produced, and it has a negative impact on the environment when it's wasted, because it becomes waste and therefore has to be disposed of.
our recipe is very simple: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the prevention of food waste, the promotion of responsible consumption and the absolute prohibition of landfilling and incineration of all types of food waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was very surprised to read in a recent study that if food waste were represented by a single state, it would be the third largest producer of carbon dioxide on the planet, not to mention that for every undernourished person in the world, at least two are overweight.
europe has committed itself, with the un sustainable development goals, to halving this, one of the most intolerable economic, environmental and ethical contradictions, but nothing, to date, is provided for in european legislation.
waste is not just in the final consumption, but in the entire chain, from agricultural production to food processing, from distribution to catering, and that's where we need to make it more cost-effective for businesses to donate to those in need rather than waste.
finally, encourage the use of organic waste that is no longer donated as a secondary raw material for new products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the transition to a circular economy is weak, much weaker without common european rules to reduce food waste throughout the chain: production, distribution and consumption.
reducing food waste is an urgent necessity.
but food waste is not only an intolerable injustice, a gigantic social inequality to be ashamed of, it is also a waste of raw materials, a waste of land, a waste of water, a waste of energy, a multiplication of waste and environmental damage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, food waste is an unacceptable scandal of our time, as this report points out.
with food thrown away, we also waste land, water and fertilizer, not to mention the greenhouse gas emissions that are necessary to produce it.
reducing food waste by 50% by 2030, as set out in the circular economy package approved by parliament, requires the commitment of everyone - producers, retailers, restaurateurs, businesses, individuals and households.
42 percent of food waste in europe occurs in the home, at a cost of over 500 euros per family per year.
let's start at home to promote a more socially, environmentally and economically sustainable development model through waste prevention campaigns and by encouraging food donations of unsold food.
most of us here are describing the gigantic scale of the phenomenon and the problem of food waste.
the problem has been described here from both an ethical perspective, where many people on this planet have nothing to eat, and an economic perspective, and most importantly, an ecological perspective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, food waste is an absurd paradox of modern times.
this waste is all the more illogical the more waste is produced, the more the environmental crisis, the more poverty and malnutrition are experienced.
waste is the whole process of bringing food from the field to the table.
all these actions must start from a common definition of food waste, to start reliable systems that can monitor how much is wasted because, as someone has already said, the most dangerous kind of waste is the one we are unable to recognize.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, food waste is the most profound contradiction, the most intolerable paradox of our time.
if we think about the living conditions of millions of people, if we imagine, for just a moment, that the most precious human capital, children and girls, are being robbed of their future by malnutrition and hunger, then the issue of inequality, imbalance and opportunity intersects with the other issues, with the issues of the future of the planet and of our continent, with the issues of soil protection, of limiting consumption, of climate change, of hydrogeological disaster, of natural disasters, in a modern vision of the waste cycle.
when we negotiate free trade agreements, when we tell our citizens that they need not fear products that are harmful to health and the environment, we must be sure that we can keep that promise and that we can control goods entering europe effectively.
a sustainable migration policy is needed to ensure legal and safe pathways, create channels for legal migration, and integrate policies in host countries.
reducing food waste is a moral issue and also an economic one, because 88 million tonnes of food waste per year equals 173 kilos per european citizen, a huge amount, of which most people are not even aware.
unfortunately, waste occurs at all stages of the food chain.
fortunately, there are also practices that encourage donations, and in addition to this, there are experiences that minimize waste, for example through applications that some merchants use at the end of the day to send alerts and apply discounts on fresh products.
but given that food waste is the work of households, of private consumption, we must put in place policies that include training and education already in school.
any agreement found will not be sustained or sustainable if it is not embedded in a multilateral, global un framework.
it is a collective responsibility to end the political instability in the region, to finally create the conditions for sustainable development and to rethink our migration policies, knowing that by embracing the challenges but also the opportunities, without peace and stability and without a holistic approach to migration, there will be no future for any refugee either in a camp or in their home countries.
we demand the full, total commitment of the russian authorities to shed light on what is happening and full and convinced action to support and protect the victims, as well as their families who must be relocated and placed in a safe environment.
it rests on three pillars, one is climate change, there is talk of ambitious action to implement the cop21 in paris, with trump even wanting to disavow that little achieved and italy, president, with the highest number of deaths in europe due to air pollution, as many as 84 000 in 2012, and with catastrophic sites such as taranto and civitavecchia.
it's about economic and social sustainability and reducing inequality and how they want to achieve that, you told us earlier, with wild free trade.
inequalities are growing, while the energy transition and the fight against tax evasion remain a mirage.
the mission of the forthcoming g7 in taormina, namely to build the foundations of renewed public confidence in governments, which - as the italian presidency says - are increasingly sceptical of their ability to solve everyday problems, including security, environmental sustainability and economic well-being, is in itself a testament to the failure of a verticalistic, elitist and self-referential approach to solving the problems of the whole world.
a model that has been going on for years and that has not been able to spare the whole world from wars, terrorism, economic crises and pollution.
we must face common global challenges: conflict, terrorism and radicalisation, managing migration flows, but also climate change, poverty and unemployment.
together, we must uphold human dignity and freedom, empower new generations and implement the 2030 agenda for sustainable development to achieve the sustainable development goals.
today europe is increasingly moving towards citizens' mobility and therefore the impossibility of freely using digital services already legally purchased is no longer a sustainable barrier, so it is good that this regulation overcomes this difficulty for citizens.
we believe that the urban centres need to be decongested by introducing the use of public transport at the expense of private transport, which is responsible for about 80% of the co2 emissions produced by the entire transport sector.
for the new electricity sector, we want to invest in both the expansion of the grid and research into the sustainability of the batteries used, so that we have products with a lower impact both during construction and at disposal.
we have spoken in detail about all the challenges of new fuels, the need to limit emissions to the atmosphere, as much as 70 per cent of the emissions generated in the transport sector take place within road transport.
the european commission has allocated 70 billion from the structural funds to this sector, 39 of which are for the identification of strategies to limit atmospheric emissions in the transport sector and, in particular, road transport.
the future of transport certainly involves environmental sustainability, a subject on which europe is strongly committed, but the functionality and interoperability of urban public transport must also become a priority.
they are working with regard to inspections, improving rights and making sure that what they produce and then sell is sustainable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, grants and financial instruments, each with its own specific features, have produced tangible results for smes, research, the environment and agriculture.
i think that the package adopted is going in the right direction, albeit with some flaws, through the adoption of measures to increase the use of clean energy, to increase road safety and to tackle unfair competition and labour exploitation.
it is essential to empower the local authorities involved in the implementation of the mobility package and to encourage them to develop innovative and sustainable solutions with a participatory approach.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the european consensus on development offers us a great opportunity to define a common and coherent position in the face of some of the global changes that have taken place since 2005 on the world social, economic and environmental scene.
we need to respond with foresight to the changes under way, ensuring policy coherence in peace and security, migration, trade, environment and development, and finally, we need to anticipate trends that may emerge in the next 15 years.
so if the framework is ambitious, if the logic of defending human rights, democracy and good governance prevails, if we strengthen our role in global peace and justice, we can finally contribute to sustainable development in all areas of the planet.
european cooperation policy should aim to promote the economic, social and environmental growth of developing countries, with the primary objective of eradicating poverty and helping to support democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
it is essential to act with the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development in mind, which is the international community's response to global challenges and trends in sustainable development.
the pursuit of the sustainable development goals will have to be closely coordinated with the paris agreement on climate change and other international commitments, beyond the decisions taken by the new us president.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we really want resilience to become a strategic priority of the european union's external action, then we must fully exploit its potential to contribute, in the long term, to the promotion of sustainable development not only by addressing the consequences of the increasingly recurrent crises, but also by addressing their root causes.
the new joint communication should recognise and support the promotion of resilience as an essential element of the sustainable development strategies of partner countries, in particular fragile countries.
the development of resilience in partner countries is a long-term process that needs to be integrated into all external action of the union, ensuring that european policies do not undermine developing countries' efforts to achieve the sustainable development goals.
a hostile environment in schools will put the next generation at risk of exclusion.
racism and hatred must be addressed with equal attention and energy.
however, if isolated they will not be able to restore the climate of legality on their own.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we cannot avoid starting this debate with the matter at hand: the announcement by mr trump that he will walk away from the paris agreement, a line that undermines the foundations not only of the fight against climate change but, more generally, the achievement of the entire 2030 agenda for sustainable development, is the focus of the united nations conference in new york next week, which i will be attending with the parliament's delegation.
it was to be the first major meeting to move from political commitments to concrete action towards the global goals for sustainable development, and now, in light of what has happened, it will be even more so.
we must aim to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, convinced that a more sustainable system is not only good for the environment but also good for the economy, which today is faced with the challenge of using resources efficiently.
responsible management of the seas is the only way to fully promote biodiversity and at the same time the potential of the blue economy: tourism and fisheries.
only a precautionary approach, based on the safeguarding of ecosystems, as laid down in the treaties and the common fisheries policy, can help restore and maintain fish stocks above the levels necessary to ensure maximum sustainable yield.
it is true that industry remains competitive only by combining innovation with sustainability, but it must be clear that the ubiquity and not the rivalry of data subtly exposes the consumer to a vulnerability of privacy and possible and progressive violation of antitrust rules.
the competitiveness of european industry is key and it is therefore essential that the union is able to lead the new industrial revolution, through innovation, and on the basis of sustainability.
this must be done with a comprehensive approach, which puts environmental sustainability as well as social sustainability at the forefront.
expectations because, by putting water resources and their management and the implications for food systems at the centre of the research, it is expected that this project, this research platform, will contribute to addressing some of the biggest challenges we have in the mediterranean: the first is climate change, the second is food security, the third is migration.
finally, and in conclusion, it will be very important, mr commissioner, who is responsible for research and innovation, to show that research can be a practical instrument for improving the quality of life and the environment and for its precise effects on development.
armed conflict, political instability, climate change, unsustainable resource management and rapid population growth are the most critical factors contributing to migration.
in this context, i welcome the initiative of the prima joint programme, aimed at sustainable and inclusive growth in the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership.
the development of joint innovative solutions will make water supply and food systems sustainable and more cost-efficient.
commissioner, you are running horizon, which i believe is one of the very few positive achievements of the last legislature, alongside the 20-20-20 programme on climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapid and drastic changes europe is facing, from migration flows to new energy and environmental challenges, require that research programmes also be updated and strengthened in some way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr buda and the other rapporteurs on this report on the communication on the esi funds for the work we have done together and for the climate in which we have worked.
unless god wills it, you too will one day have to deal with an ecosystem that does not look to the stability of public accounts, but tears itself down mercilessly and brings only destruction.
we see that there are some stocks recovering in some parts of europe and others reaching maximum sustainable yield, and we keep reading that in the mediterranean, however, about 90 percent of fish stocks are overexploited and therefore well beyond the limit of maximum sustainable yield.
that is why we welcome the interministerial meetings organized by the european commission with great satisfaction, because we insist on the same basin, we insist on the same stocks and third countries must work with us to try to make these stocks sustainable.
there is no socioeconomically sustainable fishery without healthy stocks.
with its 17 000 species, the mediterranean is a sea of great biodiversity.
it is therefore important that fisheries management policies have a multispecies and ecosystem approach, based on scientific research and data exchange.
to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2020, work needs to be done on several fronts, from safeguarding marine ecosystems to strengthening cooperation with third countries, including to combat illegal fishing, from greater involvement of fishermen in decision-making processes to investing in food education starting in schools, so that an aware consumer does not eat more fish but eats more fish.
the mediterranean is the sea where shipping is greater than all the seas in the world and it is therefore on this that we must work, on land-based urbanisation and on marine waste.
in short, to ensure a sustainable future we must combine environmental, social and economic considerations, otherwise, in a few years, we will be forced to find ourselves here to prevent the extinction of another species, that of the fisherman.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the overall level of overfished fish stocks in the mediterranean is considered to be twice the maximum sustainable yield.
but the mediterranean sea is also subject to other threats, such as pollution, maritime traffic, climate change and oil and gas extraction.
the mediterranean must be protected by sustainable multiannual management of resources, with more selective fishing gear, respect for the minimum size, greater control of illegal fishing and, where and if scientific studies require it, also biological stocking.
today, this heritage is at risk, and that is why it is of the utmost importance to protect the region’s ecological and economic wealth.
ensuring that all citizens have an adequate and sustainable retirement income, now and in the future, is one of the key european objectives.
this regulation introduces into european legislation certain concepts relating to the energy efficiency of electrical equipment and its potential dynamic interaction with electricity grids.
i learned these concepts ten years ago when i was a dentist and, for the sake of publicity, translated environmental sustainability essays into italian.
the widespread use of smart appliances will not only save users money, but also make a significant contribution to the balance of an electricity system powered by increasingly renewable sources.
imagine a citizen producing wind or solar energy.
imagine the old, outdated electric water heater, which by its nature is not particularly efficient in purely thermodynamic terms, but if the water heater will heat water when electricity is cheaper and more abundant, the accumulated heat will be a low-cost form of energy source.
smart appliances are a new frontier in energy efficiency, not just in quantity but also in quality, not just in how much energy is consumed, but also in when it is used.
this regulation, for the first time, gives manufacturers the possibility of indicating on the label the ability of equipment to be energy smart.
this little thing allows the new labelling regulation to keep pace with the times and to fully integrate into the new dynamic, decentralised and renewable energy model we want to pursue with the energy union.
an energy union whose stated objectives include putting the citizen at its centre.
we would have liked to see a compensation from the manufacturers if it were found that the energy performance of a product was lower than the declared one.
if this europe really wants to tackle the problem of environmental pollution, it has only one tool: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals.
producing in some countries of the world puts more pollution.
it is unthinkable that 50% of the cost of a kilowatt hour is determined by the country's taxation, just as it is unacceptable to see energy consumption in several parliamentary chambers not yet rationed.
i say this to stress its importance because i believe that putting demand, not supply, at the centre of the energy consumption is one of the keys to achieving our energy objectives.
if we really want to achieve an energy-rigour objective, we must take the citizen consumer into account.
we are not working against industry, we are working for efficiency, for energy saving, for the empowerment of citizens and also for the benefit of industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner cañete, in europe we produce very little of the energy we consume and a large part of our energy still comes from fossil fuels.
we know then how important it is to take action to promote the energy transition, through increased use of renewable energy, but we also know how important it is to reduce energy consumption and thus increase energy efficiency.
with the new regulation on the energy labelling of household appliances and electronic equipment we are taking a step in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy efficiency labels of electrical products such as refrigerators, televisions and washing machines are finally changing, adapting to the digital revolution by linking to an open data base and being made available through the use of qr codes.
it will thus be possible, also in europe, to compare the electricity consumption of different appliances at the time of purchase in an efficient and effective way and thus to promote a more conscious and sustainable consumption, based on usage habits and the price and availability of electricity.
however, further work is needed, introducing stricter criteria for the electrical appliance market and obliging manufacturers to use smart technologies that can adapt to energy consumption and availability.
finally, i will recall that the energy union is one of the ten priorities of the juncker commission and that ‘energy efficiency first’ is one of its leading principles.
in this respect, reaching an agreement on one of the key proposals for delivering real energy and monetary savings to european consumers and business is an important step towards the realisation of any union which aims to provide european union consumers with secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy.
let us keep this positive spirit and dynamic in the ongoing negotiations on the ‘clean energy for all europeans’ package proposals that are now on the table of this house and the council.
statements by the commission - this is word for word what was read out by the commission at the last trilogue on 21 march 2017: commission statement on financial compensation for consumers: "in view of its ongoing efforts to strengthen the enforcement of union harmonisation legislation for products, the commission - in order to address potential financial loss by consumers due to wrongly labelled products or inferior energy and environmental performance than labelled - should investigate whether compensation for consumers in case of non-compliance with regard to the energy class displayed on the label can be addressed."
- the commission can support this statement, as this declaration is in line with the inter-institutional agreement, and can be seen as a perpetuation of a similar declaration made at the time of the adoption of previous energy labelling directive in 2010.
the rapporteur.
it could have been anticipated, but i am confident in the clean energy package and we will fight to create a european environment for gas boilers to be phased out of the market in some way, especially in the new rules on energy efficiency in buildings and active and intelligent buildings.
this applies to energy labelling, as it does to all labelling systems in the european union.
this is an important initiative to accelerate the low-carbon transition of key sectors of the economy in europe, representing around 60% of european union total emissions.
the latest greenhouse gas emissions statistics, which the european environment agency released only two weeks ago, clearly point to the challenges.
emissions, in this sector, outside emissions trading, are increasing again, notably in the transport sector.
this debate, and the vote tomorrow, show that the european union is serious about international climate commitment under the paris agreement and that it wants to progress without delay with domestic implementation.
at the same time, parliament is also making swift progress on one of the key legislative priorities of the european union, and in the joint declaration on the european union’s legislative priorities for 2017 the three institutions have agreed that the 2030 climate action proposals shall be given priority treatment in 2017. i very much appreciate the hard work of your rapporteur, mr gerbrandy.
as in the commission proposals, this maintains a careful balance of three central objectives: fairness, cost-efficiency and environmental integrity.
the lulucf flexibility proposed by the commission is of high importance and its extent should be sufficient enough to recognise the lower mitigation potential of agriculture and incentivise actions promoting carbon sequestration in agricultural soils and afforestation.
firstly, the report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) includes a requirement for member states to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in effort-sharing sectors by 80% by 2050 compared to 2005. it is true that consistent and long-term emission reductions are a cornerstone of european union climate policy.
however, i think it is too early to set national targets and emission trajectories for 2050 now already, without any thorough impact assessments and even before the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has provided its special report.
we should not set in stone now partial long-term legislation only covering 60% of total european union emissions.
however, some changes are necessary to better promote long-term predictability, ensure coherence with other policies, in particular the energy efficiency target, and ensure sufficient flexibility and solidarity between member states.
the agricultural sector is responsible for 10% of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union and therefore has to play its part.
agriculture is the sector that will suffer the most from the impacts of climate change, but at the same time there are also agricultural practices that can lead to reduced emissions and offer additional environmental benefits and an additional income for farmers.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related impacts of the measures, including the impact of the measures on the environment and the impact of the measures on the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the united states president trump is seriously questioning the need to combat climate change, while in britain the government is being formed with the support of those who even deny the existence of the phenomenon.
our future and that of future generations lies in a more sustainable society and economy.
europe is aware of this and also knows that to achieve results, action must be global, because co2 emissions do not stop at the borders of those who produce them.
if managed well, the transition to a low-emission system is not only good for the environment but also for the flourishing economic growth of our societies.
in my view, we are unfortunately far from embarking on a real path that actually looks towards the paris goals, also because the results of recent studies tell us that the possibility of reducing and maintaining the global temperature increase within 1.5°c will not be achieved and could already be achieved by 2030. this should give us urgency for our need to act, especially in this regulation which is part of the second pillar of climate policies along with the ets, another instrument which does not work and which does not encourage investment in clean technologies and truly sustainable production and which above all gives us an example of how the proceeds from auctions are not used in an appropriate way, for example, which should and could be used precisely to improve and invest in mitigation of emissions in the areas instead of effort sharing.
we are about to enter the trilogue with the council and we cannot afford to once again demolish the ambition of one of the pillars of climate policy.
on the other hand, the process of withdrawing from the paris agreement is a complex one, one that takes time, and i am sure that in any case the next american government, whatever its colour, will review its position on the fight against climate change and will have to make up for lost time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with 17 000 marine species the mediterranean is a world paradise of biodiversity and fisheries are an economic sector of great importance for the coastal community and the whole industry, especially the small-scale industry.
that is why we must find a synthesis between these two elements in the name of sustainable development.
it stresses first of all the importance of involving all the players in the sector in the definition of the policies to be implemented, including coastal communities, and respecting traditions, and at the same time it stresses the need to protect the mediterranean fish stocks by combating both illegal fishing and other factors such as pollution from oil tankers which put these resources at risk.
in addition, unfair competition from fish imports from places where sustainability is not guaranteed must be tackled, while at the same time work must be done on critical consumption, including through an effective and reliable traceability and labelling system.
we have a currency which has created obvious imbalances because it has been placed in a non-optimal currency environment.
despite the clarity of these statements, there is a recognition that these guidelines need to be implemented so that they can be useful not only within our borders, but also encourage third countries to take decisive action to ensure a safe environment for those who wish to express their views.
this includes additional efforts to ensure a safe environment and the safeguarding of their property rights, as well as the strengthening of social cohesion.
the council will continue to monitor closely kosovo’s continued engagement towards visible and sustainable progress so that kosovo and serbia can continue on their respective european paths.
juncker spoke about it, with reference to climate change, the issue of education and the issue of democracy.
the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
the presidency needs your ideas and your energy.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on president trump’s decision to withdraw the us from the cop 21 climate agreement (2017/2729(rsp)).
the paris agreement has been a historic achievement of the international community, the first ever global commitment to address climate change and its consequences.
while we regret the decision taken by the united states of america’s administration to withdraw from this agreement, our long-standing commitment and determination to lead global action on climate change must not relent.
tackling this global challenge also entails working with our industry for new investments, new technologies and more sustainable growth and jobs.
the european parliament has been at the forefront of climate action within the european union, and today there is an important vote on this.
madam president, you know very well the effects that climate change can have, especially on the most vulnerable.
we want to be at the centre of the debate on climate change.
in the era of the fourth industrial revolution, the circular economy, the implementation of agenda 2030 and the paris agreement, this is the ideal place to plan for a more sustainable future.
but if this europe is the same as dieselgate and fossil fuel financing through the efsi and the ecb, then it is clear that to change the climate, first of all, a change in the political climate is needed.
it has now been shown that the transition to the new sustainable economy is also a winning strategy in terms of economic growth and job creation, and this is the direction we must go.
so i ask you: how do you think you're gonna stop global warming if you're allied with the oil companies?
my question is: how do you think you're going to fight climate change, if what you say is the exact opposite of what you do?
the arrival this morning of the president of the republic of the marshall islands reminds us of the importance of taking action for sustainable development and the climate.
the cote d'ivoire is also suffering from the effects of climate change, with drought, floods and coastal erosion, and youth and employment, peace, security, human rights and crisis management are concrete areas which we will probably be dealing with at the end of november in your country, in abidjan, at the africa-european union summit.
that is why our cooperation is and will be crucial for peace, for stability, for the fight against terrorism, against illegal immigration and against climate change.
we share the same challenges: youth unemployment, the fight against terrorism, illegal immigration and climate change.
one thing on which we have to be very careful is to provide financing for new innovations which will strengthen sustainable development of our economies in social and environmental terms, for example financing through investments which will promote the circular economy.
the fund can be an important instrument for the better functioning of the single market and we therefore stress the need to strengthen the third pillar in order to make the european union's regulatory environment more secure, homogeneous and investment-friendly.
in the juncker plan, in particular, we look at how many of the projects have had little impact from an environmental, economic and social point of view.
the collaborative economy is born, on the one hand, from technological innovation, but, on the other, from the increasingly widespread need for a better use of resources, with the effect of stimulating the biodiversity of the economic forms of society.
these include the recognition of the growing role of the collaborative economy in self-production, self-consumption and distribution of renewable energy at the local level by prosumers in local energy communities, as well as the potential of distributed ledger technologies that enable and certify peer-to-peer energy exchanges without intermediaries.
it is important that the commission address this intersection between the collaborative economy, the digital economy and new energy models in the best possible way, so that citizens are truly at the heart of the energy union and are able to actively contribute to the transition to a more sustainable, democratic and resilient energy system.
what, i think, is even more important is that direct investment for innovation is improving the climate for private investors.
then there was, for instance, our work last month on the european venture capital funds, added to which are the revamped tax and regulatory environment, the initiatives – over 200 – for further reduction and simplification under the regulatory fitness programme, and, of course, all of the measures under the single market strategy that we are working on.
if we set ourselves binding, very fair objectives, for example in the context of environmental protection policies in relation to the great climate change emergency, but we do not set ourselves binding objectives for the industrial sector, we do damage to both climate policies and industry, because it means that if they are binding and these are not as objectives, it means that they do not have the objective of protecting the environment, but of changing and weakening industry.
so, since we as europeans support a model of economic development in which man is the protagonist and counts more than a fungus, because he creates value and also creates capacity for climate protection, let us make the industrial objectives as binding as those, and this will be an act of great sincerity and honesty, industrial and cultural.
the commission has repeatedly stressed the objective of bringing the share of industry in the eu's gdp to 20% by 2020, which is difficult to achieve unless we are more ambitious and focus more on innovation and sustainability.
i could just mention they are areas as diverse as peace and security, the rule of law, good governance, human rights, migration, trade and investment, sustainable development, climate change, energy, education, culture, science and technology.
not only that, many projects have high impact emissions.
there is a lot of intervention for fossil fuels like oil and gas and very little is done for renewables and to support self-generation of energy.
assistance must be conditional on the implementation of an ambitious programme of economic and structural reforms: i am thinking in particular of strengthening governance in the financial sector, the fight against corruption and money laundering and efforts to increase the independence of the judiciary, without forgetting the strategic importance of improving the energy sector, in particular by ensuring the independence of the national regulatory authority.
the development of common standards in the field of new information technologies will undoubtedly strengthen the competitiveness, interoperability, security and sustainability of our digital infrastructures: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of new technologies and the progressive integration of digital solutions into industrial production worldwide, as well as the rapidly changing international environment, regulatory instruments are changing rapidly and new impetus is needed to meet the needs of industry, consumers, workers, environmental organisations and other stakeholders.
a holistic approach is needed, in which the objectives of smes, consumers and citizens - especially those relating to economic, social, health and environmental issues - are fully integrated.
it is therefore essential that the whole commission package aims at creating a single, coherent european standardisation system, which adapts to a constantly changing environment and offers benefits first and foremost to consumers and businesses.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the increase in hiv, tuberculosis and hcv epidemics in europe, by françoise grossetête, claudiu ciprian tănăsescu, urszula krupa, frédérique ries, kateřina konečná, martin häusling, piernicola pedicini and mireille d'ornano, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000045/2017 - b8-0321/2017).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must start with a fact: the "use and throw" model of production is no longer sustainable.
it's no longer ethically sustainable, because of the enormous waste of raw materials.
it's no longer economically sustainable, because the materials we use are neither infinite nor biodegradable.
and it's not sustainable for citizens, who are tired of buying things that don't last.
i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their valuable input.
also, when it equipment and software updates are no longer compatible, we can waste a lot of time sorting out these issues.
there are trade-offs to be made in keeping a product for 20 years versus having the latest version in terms of costs, energy and material resources.
regarding eco—design and energy labelling actions, in november 2016 the commission adopted an eco—design working plan for the years 2016—2019, setting out its working priorities and its eco—design and energy labelling framework.
a balance must be struck between extending the useful life of products and converting waste into resources, between innovation and consumer demand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, small-scale fishermen, particularly those in the mediterranean area, are facing increasing pressures from a number of factors, including the decline in employment and the decline in the attractiveness of the profession, but also climate change and pollution, which have led to a gradual depletion of fish stocks.
europe's coastal areas attract millions of visitors every year and there has been a recent upsurge in interest in sustainable tourism.
local action groups), tourism experts and stakeholders should be strengthened in order to promote sustainable growth and to develop innovative products that meet the expectations of visitors.
tourism linked to fishing, in particular fisheries tourism and hunting tourism, is thus a real form of integration and diversification of primary activity in many european regions, and is economically beneficial for fishermen and environmentally sustainable.
the commission's commitment to follow developments very closely and to block any attempts to break the rules which may contribute to damaging our products, jobs, the environment and health is of central importance.
few people here have perhaps realised what it means to create a platform for cooperation between european countries and african countries on the mediterranean coast for the management of a resource such as water, with all the implications for energy, food and so on.
the european union cannot waste any more time, it must respond immediately, or else lose its credibility, which is already rather shaky.
it is with the energy of a survivor who knows the price of peace that she has fought in countless battles in france and in the european parliament, battles that have advanced the rights of all citizens.
the climate and the fact that the fishing is mainly artisanal and seasonal make our country one of the main targets of the own-initiative report voted on today.
we need to be more ambitious in the environmental and health sectors, starting with endocrine disruptors and antibiotic resistance.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
if it is just to cut waste, close the technological gaps, exploit economies of scale and have a more transparent defence market, i would certainly say to the european citizens.
these steps forward will enable the union to save, avoid waste and generate investment and to assume full strategic autonomy, while fully cooperating and complementing nato, in an increasingly unstable global context.
the link to energy, to the ets, to co2 emissions and their purchase, or the financial transaction tax nine proposals were made.
there is a wide range of possible new resources, such as a tax on financial transactions and multinationals, a serious reform of the emissions trading system and taxation of coal, taxation of transport, taxation of electricity.
mr solé, we take the 20% target for climate protection seriously.
we are seeing this month after month in the implementation of the budget, the court of auditors is currently examining this and is presenting a report to you, and i would like to suggest that we can say at the end of the day - and make this the basis for the next draft budget - that the 20% is demonstrable in expenditure and investment in favour of energy saving and climate protection in the implementation of the budget.
we do not want to burden the citizens with new taxes, but let us consider: climate protection is a european policy, paris, marrakesh is a european success story.
anyway: we do not want bicycle paths, bicycle paths are useful for reasons of mobility and environmental protection.
europe, which also maintains a leading role on the world stage as a leader in the fight against climate change, must be able to respond concretely to the growing challenges, in a context where the eu budget will be designed to cope with the uk's exit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable growth, socioeconomic cohesion, security, migration and climate change remain the main priorities of the 2018 budget of the european union.
sustainable agriculture, food security, support for the better use of natural resources, vital for sustainable development, and the commitment to inclusive economic and social modernisation - this is music to our ears and to the well-being of our soul and human conscience.
tomorrow, however, a journey will begin, which will be certainly challenging but essential for a partnership of friendship and sustainable development, to turn the page on our nations and also on the entire cuban people.
you also know that we have fought with specific proposals to make culture and education a priority for the commission, also in two other areas: as a tool for freedom, for human promotion, for intercultural and interreligious dialogue, and also for preventing radicalisation, but also as the fourth pillar of sustainable development, a driver of creativity and innovation, a new economy, quality employment, tourism.
estonia indicates four priorities, which are clearly shared: an open and innovative european economy, a secure, digital, inclusive and sustainable europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are today approving an important instrument, the european fund for sustainable development, with the awareness that its implementation will have to be closely monitored, in a manner which this parliament has wanted to set out in black and white, and for this i thank the members who have helped to ensure our priorities in the text.
public resources and development aid will remain essential, but they are not sufficient to unlock the enormous potential in africa and other neighbourhood countries and to achieve the goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european fund for sustainable development will complement the european external investment plan and will provide financing in the form of grants, guarantees and other financial instruments for africa and the union's neighbourhood.
however, a careful monitoring phase should be carried out: if the objective is to mobilise investments of up to eur 44 billion, non-formal monitoring is needed, but it should be aimed at the quality of investments, both in terms of return and sustainability.
the new sustainable development goals are universal and ambitious: we can't just leave them on paper.
the eu needs to do much more for policy coherence in development and to assess the impact of its policies on sustainability and developing countries.
let's be clear about this: with everything that is happening around us, with american presidents denying climate change and playing with everyone's future, the european union must take the lead in implementing the new agenda and the responsibility we have towards future generations, for a future that is finally sustainable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is unfortunately still light years away from achieving many of the sustainable development goals set out in the un agenda.
but he still lacks courage and ambition on many fronts: i would like to refer in particular to waste management and incineration.
i would like to ask mr liese whether he does not think that the ppe group, the european centre-right, is in fact hiding what is called the 'elephant in the room', the enormous environmental impact of agriculture on the environment and also on health, by considering that meat consumption is absolutely unhealthy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the un development goals are essential targets for achieving the best possible results in terms of health, global prosperity, action against climate change and environmental protection.
the integration of these objectives into the strategy for better regulation is certainly a step in the right direction, allowing european legislation to work at full speed by clearly indicating the areas in which the sustainable development goals are achieved.
i am referring to the effects of the ets and the sharing of effort, the european fund for sustainable development and investment in energy efficiency and renewable sources, the attempt to reduce inequalities through cohesion policy, the poverty reduction fund.
there is no doubt that if europe is to continue to lead, it must accelerate the implementation of its sustainability policies.
so you can see how 114 million euros a year is an insult to all the citizens who struggle to pay taxes to carry on the democratic processes; i understand that 11 000 to 19 000 tonnes of co2 is another insult to a parliament which is trying to do its best to eliminate the climate shocks caused by emissions.
the petition for the single seat, signed in 2015 by over a million citizens, has gone unnoticed, as have hundreds of newspaper articles and reports about this incredible and seemingly unstoppable waste.
i find it embarrassing that the european union imposes its priorities on resource efficiency, sustainability and the circular economy, and then maintains such a blatant and unnecessary waste.
i shall not be here today to recall the waste, inefficiency and inconsistencies which would justify a single and sustainable seat for the european parliament.
we talk a lot in the report about environmental sustainability and blue growth, but i have to point out here two major dangers that our seas are unfortunately facing.
according to a study by the european commission itself, these, in addition to causing serious environmental damage to coastal communities, economies, tourism, shipping, fisheries and biodiversity, cost european taxpayers at least €630 million.
ladies and gentlemen, if we do not tackle these issues and if we do not stop the multinationals, the powerful powers, which are aggravating environmental problems and will destroy our economies with ttip, with ceta, even a coherent and uniform implementation of article 349 will not be able to contribute to a truly harmonious and balanced development of the outermost regions, which have an incredible natural heritage to be protected and enhanced.
the european union is fully committed to the conservation of all cetaceans and is equipped with environmental legislation to pursue this objective.
in november 2016, my colleague commissioner vella discussed this issue with the norwegian minister for environment, vidar helgesen, who confirmed the norwegian position, referring to the fact that ‘only’ 17 norwegian vessels catch minke whales.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the arctic seas are already the most at risk and the most affected by the effects of climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report makes some progress towards a new sustainable development for europe, and that is why i voted in favour.
however, i must point out that it could have been more ambitious and called for more binding targets, starting with energy saving and individual self-production, and ending with the massive remediation that must accompany the conversion of industrial sites.
the reduction of greenhouse gases is rightly given a lot of weight in the context of climate change, but the same level of alert is not given, for example, to many other pollutants that plague air, water and soil.
efforts are emerging to implement the circular economy, recovery, reuse and recycling, but we had to table amendments not passed to exclude waste incineration from this plant.
there is an attempt to increase the role of renewable energy in the energy mix, but the use of the efsi, which is widely used to support fossil fuels, is accepted.
i would like, mr president - you have already done so with this minute of silence, in which you remembered all the victims, not only of terrorism but also of natural disasters - that the sign of closeness, solidarity and sympathy of the european parliament, of all european citizens, should reach the city of livorno, which is so badly hit by the material difficulties that are presently facing it, and i would like it to reach it through a renewed commitment by this parliament against climate change, in favour of new environmental policies, to ensure that these sad events, which characterized my region yesterday, but which also characterise europe and other parts of the world, are not repeated.
i would like this statement of solidarity to come with a renewed commitment to fight climate change.
i agree with mr danti that the commitment of the european parliament and the european union as a whole to combating climate change is very clear, and unfortunately events in europe and beyond are forcing us to step up our efforts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the overall reduction of national greenhouse gas emissions is a fundamental objective of european union policy.
in this sense, the ets is an essential tool for a cost-effective reduction of these emissions.
the regulation needs to be adopted swiftly in view of the current uncertainties within icao regarding the adoption of a global measure to address the increase in emissions globally.
the full realisation of the single european sky will also be important for achieving the targets set by the paris agreement and for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. this is essential to avoid airspace fragmentation and to optimise traffic flow, with consequent environmental benefits.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the aviation sector must make a proper and effective contribution to the achievement of the climate objectives of the paris agreement.
air transport is currently responsible for 4.5% of emissions within the eu, and emissions will continue to rise if no action is taken.
the commission is asked to propose measures to address the climate effects of aviation due to nitrogen oxides and condensation trails, as well as co2, which is essential.
the commission is also asked to encourage research into the use of photovoltaic energy in aviation and fuels... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, aviation is responsible for 4.5% of the co2 emissions produced in the european union.
the auctioned emissions share should be increased to at least 50%, as at present aviation receives 85% of its emissions free of charge, despite the impact assessment acknowledging that the sector does not present any risk of carbon leakage.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy and its implementation in the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 20 years ago the first ipcc report on the consequences of global warming painted the picture we see today: the european union is facing increasingly extreme and destructive weather events.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
in this house, i have heard hundreds of voices of concern about climate change from all political groups: but when it comes to translating proclamations into legislative action, i still have too many, too many groups, too many colleagues who continue to defend the status quo, to postpone, to dilute commitments, to introduce flexibility and loopholes.
maybe i didn't explain myself very well or maybe we didn't understand each other: the scientific evidence is about what climate change is currently doing and the urgency that the scientific data suggests to us about the policy action that needs to be taken: and the political action that needs to be taken, alas, is always too weak.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are only a few weeks away from cop 23 in bonn, and i believe that the lulucf proposal we are discussing this evening can be an important step forward in the fight against climate change.
our long-term climate targets are based on net removals in the lulucf sector but this must not lead to a reduction in the level of ambition in other sectors.
a distinction should also be made between green co2 emissions from the lulucf sector and emissions from fossil fuel combustion.
the flexibility proposed by the lulucf regulation is a useful tool to value, reward and incentivise forestry and agriculture for their climate-smart actions, but we must not let our guard down and we must be ambitious
in writing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative report proposes to set up a framework for the accounting for greenhouse gas emissions and removals in the land use and forestry sector.
it is one of the three pillars of the european union's 2030 framework for climate and energy action.
in the negotiations in parliament, i campaigned for the recognition of active and sustainable forest management, allowing timber industry players to exploit the full potential of forest resources, while ensuring the growth of our forests' carbon sinks.
in reality, the space sector is not a cost to citizens but an investment: space programmes and related services are key resources for many economic sectors such as energy, environment, defence, health, agriculture, transport, digital market, mobile communications and many more.
it is essential to ensure the continuity of the programmes and to reflect on the future evolution of galileo and copernicus, in particular with a view to creating a favourable investment climate in the sector.
the european union, in setting its political and trade agenda, must remain faithful to certain essential principles, responding effectively to social and environmental dumping, combating unfair trade practices and ensuring the dignity and rights of workers, but at the same time must remember to protect its specificities and its excellence.
the commission shares with the european parliament concerns and goals regarding sustainable development and the 2030 agenda, both of which are central to many european union policies, including the trade and investment policy.
in this context, we aim at developing solid procurement tools against corruptive practices and promoting sustainable procurement.
these agreements also contain provisions on corporate social responsibility and responsible business conduct, together with binding commitments on core labour standards and international environmental conventions which are subject to dispute settlement.
under the unilateral generalised scheme of preferences, corporate social responsibility is indirectly addressed via the requirements and dialogues on labour standards and environmental conventions.
following the gender forum hosted by the commission earlier this year, more will be done on promoting gender equality and integration into bilateral and multilateral instruments, such as the trade negotiations with chile or the wto ministerial conference in december 2017. also, as regards other policies, the commission takes numerous actions linked to global value chains: there are capacity—building and outreach programmes which help developing countries to promote reforms for effective enforcement of social, environmental and labour standards.
the 2014 non-financial disclosure directive for large european union companies requires companies with more than 500 employees to disclose information on policies, results and risks concerning environmental aspects, social and labour-related matters, respect for human rights, anti—corruption and bribery issues.
we are addressing all these sustainable development issues – and many more – on a regular basis, and the commission will continue to work closely with the european parliament on them.
never before has italy been hit by such devastating storms as in recent years, when climate change is showing its effects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation we are adopting is certainly a step forward, a new step in the european union's approach to energy.
we all know that the common energy policy was born precisely in the face of a supply risk: the crisis in the early 2000s, ukraine and russia, coincidentally, already then... and so europe found itself discovered, it understood that addiction was a risk and that addiction without solidarity was a double deadly risk.
and this is where the need arose not only to deal with the question of supply but also to create, even before the legal basis of lisbon, a union, a common energy policy.
so i hope that this push is just one step towards really moving towards an energy union.
we are moving forward, commissioner, because we are working well towards a real energy union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy security in gas supply is a strategic priority for the european union, aimed at reducing the cyclical disruptions of natural gas supplies and their impact on the economies of the member states.
excessive dependence on a limited number of sources of supply, the bilateral nature of agreements, the lack of coordination of national policies and the complexity of geopolitical dynamics have historically been the most complex elements in the construction of an internal energy market.
i consider the proposal a significant development in the european regulatory framework for energy security, in line with the need for diversification of sources and the objectives of transparency, solidarity and trust between member states.
finally, the behavioural approach of both companies and individuals to european policies to reduce dependence on fossil fuels in favour of alternative and renewable energy sources, especially in the context of environmental sustainability, should not be underestimated.
the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
we have less than two years before the election and we have big challenges ahead of us: terrorism, illegal immigration, jobs, climate change and brexit.
we have adopted, in record time, important and complex issues such as the efsi, the european fund for sustainable development (efsd), the data protection package and the european border and coast guard.
we need to agree on the reform of the emissions trading system and ensure that the clean energy transition becomes a reality.
i thank you for the energy you devote every day to meetings, discussions, negotiations, conferences, contacts, meetings with citizens and civil society.
(the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to argue the vote against the report on the basis of a fundamental consideration: in fact, new investments in renewable energy are being prevented and discouraged, and we do not trust this rhetoric about new standards of transparency and security, which would then be left to the commission.
i do not believe that the new energy policy of the european union can be based on replacing russia with countries like qatar and azerbaijan: indeed, we would have expected a more significant shift in investment in renewables.
i would stress the seriousness of the fact that 13 member states have still not ratified the istanbul convention, whereas the 2030 objective of equality and gender equality is one of the sustainable development goals.
we also retained financing to core areas of horizon 2020, a research and innovation programme, to the initiatives protecting union financial interests, the energy projects, to aid economic recovery, the completion of former programmes, and pilot projects and preparatory actions.
under heading 2, sustainable growth and natural resources, the council proposes some adjustments mainly affecting the first pillar of the common agricultural policy.
some additional savings were identified under the annual actions of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements based on past under—implementation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
the instrument you mentioned, the one you worked on, is a very useful instrument: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the implementation of the investment plan in its external dimension to exploit the best energy resources in africa.
the agreement with libya is only a buffer measure that must be accompanied by long-term solutions aimed at eradicating the root causes of migration through a policy of cooperation and sustainable development, which puts human rights and the creation of jobs for young people at the centre.
finally, in this more global vision, we must know that in the coming years what is called the phenomenon of 'climate migrants' will become increasingly evident and the need to introduce...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the joint declaration is a major achievement for italy's work on migration.
finally, i support the implementation of the european comprehensive strategy to improve the rule of law, respect for human rights and the environment.
we need more courage on investment, on sustainability, on climate, on industrial policy, on which parliament has done a great job.
we have an example, an important reference: the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is a good example.
secondly, to make the chapter on sustainable development effective and binding.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker, i thank you for your important speech and for your truly europeanist vision, a sail also propelled by the renewed europeanist spirit of some important countries, by the fears of many citizens, especially young british people, about the impact of brexit, and above all by the awareness that sustainable development, security, defence, foreign policy, greater justice, europe's role in the world can only be guaranteed by more europe, a europe that is free, united, just and reformed in its institutions, but also in its priorities.
it is up to the european institutions - all of them - not to waste the next 18 months until the 2019 elections, when european citizens will be looking for answers.
the emis committee of inquiry found that there had been fraud, in that the european commission and the member states had allowed vehicles to be type-approved which exceeded the emission limits by a large margin, despite the fact that the technologies to reduce these emissions were already in place.
in addition, companies were allowed an unjustified extension of the limits in force since 2015, thus effectively legalising 110% more emissions until 2020: another scandal in the scandal.
first of all, it is about the accessibility of the built environment: we cannot accept the fact that we are somehow fooling the citizen by saying that we are offering him a service, for example an accessible atm, but then that atm cannot be reached because the building containing it is not accessible.
in the regulation, we envisage advances in areas such as migration, social and environmental statistics, as well as energy and transport statistics.
all these data should allow the monitoring of objectives and targets of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development to be set at union and member state level and, in this way, to contribute to the achievement of such goals.
quality of work, new poverty, social exclusion, quality of the environment and of life in cities, suburbs, gender violence, democratic quality, migration are just some of the social aspects that need to be taken into account in the development of new indicators of measurement, which are useful for modernising official statistics but also for broadening the horizon of the quality of life of european citizens, in line with the commission's priorities in the programme for employment, growth and social equity.
finally, there is a reporting obligation for eusef to include a description of how environmental and climate risks are taken into account in the investment mode.
i think we can all consider ourselves, and we are, satisfied with the work we have done, because with this new regulation we are encouraging technologically advanced social entrepreneurship, we are giving greater strength to public and private investment, we are creating finance to serve the real economy, we are paying more attention to the environment and, finally, we are offering protection and safeguarding of employment.
we have to have the best management framework to work for sustainable fisheries, with or without brexit.
our colleague, mr serrão santos, spoke about sustainability and i totally agree with him that we have to be serious about sustainability and to do away, phase out and stop overfishing because overfishing could be as harmful as illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (iuu).
on the contrary, the common fisheries policy (cfp) is providing us with some positive results and as has already been mentioned, the number of stocks at maximum sustainable yield (msy) has increased from 9 up to 36 and that is, for me, a very good result.
i also agree with linnéa engström that with healthy stocks everyone benefits, whether this is the leisure or the commercial industries, so both have to take on responsibilities when it comes to sustainable management.
mr mato knows that the worst thing that could impact negatively on fishermen is a lack of sustainable management and this is exactly what we do not want to have and is exactly what the multi-annual plan is giving us.
i agree with ms thomas about the essentials of the plan, especially the sustainable management of resources not only to reach but to maintain the stocks at maximum sustainable yield (msy).
i also agree with mr kuhn when he mentioned as well that we need to start looking at the interaction and the impact of one species over other species and we will be moving in that direction when we start taking into consideration and taking the ecosystem approach, because i agree that this is a very important remark.
let me reiterate that it is of utmost importance that the multi-annual plans are made fit for purpose and to ensure this, they must focus on the tools to ensure a practical and a sustainable management framework for our mixed demersal fisheries.
for example, the programme should support young people going into forward—looking study fields where europe needs expertise and must have the ambition to be a world leader, such as climate change, clean energy, robotics, digitalisation, etc.
the reason we shall abstain on this report is: i think there are important chapters in this report on sustainable development, on social and environmental standards and on the fact that the possibility of introducing sanctions in the event of non-compliance with standards is finally being considered.
several of you referred to the fact that president juncker underlined today the importance of concluding trade agreements with friends and allies: countries with whom we share values, where we share a belief in the importance of the multilateral system, the belief that trade agreement is a good way to open new possibilities, and that you can have win—win agreements and sustainable, good, fair trade agreements to the benefit of companies, consumers and citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, during the current legislature, much hope has been placed on the energy union, which aims to strengthen the union's energy security and ensure the functioning of the internal energy market.
nord stream 2 is therefore clearly against the interests of the european union in diversifying its energy supply, because it risks making the european union more dependent on russian gas and is contrary to european objectives in the field of energy security, especially for the eastern european partner countries.
we also denounce the land grabbing that is currently being encouraged by the government and we reiterate our call for a total change of climate towards the opposition and towards civil society to allow the future political elections to take place in a democratic way.
mr president, gabon has not been at peace since august 2016. the political climate is marked by violence, repression and the systematic violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of its citizens, political opponents and the diaspora.
let me assure you that the union will continue working with the rfmos to ensure better ocean governance and more sustainable fishing.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the iccat recommendations, some of which are really outdated, although with the general objective of regulating the activity and making fishing sustainable, risk imposing new and increasingly heavy obligations on our fishermen, who have already been experiencing a deep crisis for years.
in addition, incentives should be provided for fishermen who already put in huge efforts and use selective fishing gear or fishing techniques with a low environmental impact.
i have heard from commissioner barnier this morning very positive and constructive words, which do not correspond to the words i have heard since, and i am very sorry about that, because i do not think that this is the right climate for reaching this important agreement.
the allocation of tuna and swordfish quotas was to be based on transparent and objective criteria, including environmental criteria, while also taking into account social and economic considerations.
the allocation of total allowable catches (tacs) was to be made with particular attention to traditional and artisanal fishing and to encourage union vessels using selective fishing gear or fishing techniques with a reduced environmental impact.
– mr president, let me highlight at the outset that by the united nations climate change conference taking place in november this year in bonn, known as cop 23, all member states should have finalised their ratification procedures for the paris agreement.
the eu and its member states have reaffirmed clearly their commitment to continued climate action in line with the objectives of the paris agreement.
despite the political changeover in the us, we are encouraged by good news from other countries moving forward on climate action.
this was also demonstrated during the hamburg g20 summit held on 7 and 8 july and the recent montreal ministerial meeting on climate action that took place in september.
the upcoming conference in bonn will be an important occasion to demonstrate the collective determination of the international community on climate action.
they also bring concrete opportunities to overcome barriers in ndc implementation and international cooperation, such as partnerships through the global climate action agenda.
with regard to the transparency framework, it is important to have comparable and robust methodologies to track progress and make sure that the chosen policy instruments have the desired impact in terms of reducing emissions or increasing resilience.
further action by all parties, individually and collectively, will be required to reorient and make finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate resilient development.
the eu and its member states are the world’s biggest climate finance donor.
in 2015 it provided, together with the european investment bank, eur 17.6 billion for climate finance to third countries.
the eu will continue to support climate action in partner countries and is fully committed to the implementation of the 2020 climate finance roadmap.
we remain committed to scaling the mobilisation of climate finance as part of a global effort to assist developing countries to implement their low-carbon sustainable development, and in particular their ndcs.
domestic implementation, climate policies and measures to achieve intended nationally determined contributions and their full integration into national policies are of crucial importance.
at this stage the council and parliament are the key actors currently working on completion of the eu’s own legislative and regulatory package that is necessary to deliver our paris target of reducing economy-wide emissions by at least 40% by 2030. that remains the most ambitious pledge under the agreement.
– mr president, president juncker stressed in his recent state of the union address that he wants europe to be the leader when it comes to the fight against climate change.
recently, the european union, canada and china convened a ministerial meeting on climate action.
this was the first ministerial meeting of its kind, bringing together three major economies in a leadership role and gathering ministers from more than 30 countries, including both major economies and also some of the most vulnerable countries, to discuss how to advance global action on climate change.
for the un climate change conference in bonn (cop23) the european union envisages three broad areas of deliverables.
thirdly, the european union attaches great importance to the global climate action agenda to expand multi—stakeholder action and further build momentum.
coming back to the second deliverable, the 2018 facilitative dialogue is intended to take stock of the collective efforts of parties in relation to progress towards the long-term emissions reduction goal and inform the preparation of further or updated nationally determined contributions (ndcs).
looking ahead, and to facilitate the preparation of long-term strategies, the commission is preparing an in-depth analysis of the economic, social and environmental impacts of pathways coherent with the long-term temperature goals of the paris agreement in order to stimulate the political debate in the european parliament and the council and with stakeholders.
let me give you some further comments on climate finance.
we remain committed to the collective goal of mobilising, from a variety of sources, usd 100 billion a year in climate finance by 2020 for climate action in developing countries, and continuing significantly to increase adaptation finance.
in that respect the cop21+2 climate summit convened by the french government, the united nations and the world bank in paris on 12 december will usefully complement the cop23 conference and should help us work better together to redirect public and private investments towards the clean energy transition.
in that respect, we are mobilising technical support from across europe to share our experience and help partner countries develop and implement climate policies and measures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we are even a little tired of talking about climate change in this house.
so what exactly are we talking about when we talk about fighting climate change?
because it is a fact that climate change and global warming are caused by fossil fuels.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution we reaffirm our commitment to implementing the paris agreement on climate change with strength and consistency, whether trump is in it or not.
a new model of development, more sustainable economically, environmentally and socially, is needed to emerge from the crisis and to produce new and good jobs for our young people.
the european target of reducing emissions by 40% by 2030 requires commitments across all sectors of the economy and at all institutional levels, from states to local communities.
in particular, in transport, which accounts for 25% of global emissions, a gap in heavy vehicles needs to be closed quickly: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road.
climate change is not a problem that we can think about moving into the future, because we are already seeing its effects.
we must accelerate europe's transition to a sustainable, low-carbon and circular economy and involve, as europe, other global players in this process, including those who today are willing to tear up the charter of the paris agreement and yet put our future and that of future generations at risk.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris agreement is irreversible and cannot be waived, and in the fight against climate change, cop 23 in bonn must be a key stage in completing the detailed arrangements for implementing the agreement by 2018. the roadmap to mobilize $100 billion by 2020 for climate action in developing countries is just a starting point.
the steady increase in eu climate finance is not satisfactory and does not guarantee the achievement of the objective of: an ambitious commitment from governments and public and private finance firms, banks, pension funds and insurance companies is needed to align lending and investment practices with the goal of keeping temperature rise well below 2%, and to move away from investments in fossil fuels.
i am very impressed because in parliament and in the committees on which i work - the committee on industry, research and energy, the committee on transport and tourism - we often find ourselves debating how to protect the european market and protect the high performance of our companies in terms of protecting the market itself, protecting the lives of workers, protecting users and in this case passengers.
i believe that the commission's proposal to identify endocrine disruptors goes beyond the powers conferred on it, because it arbitrarily restricts the field of interference and is therefore unsuitable for ensuring adequate protection of human health and the environment.
as regards social aspects, the inspections provided for in this new directive take account of the working environment and personal life on board, thus combining greater attention to safety with the necessary respect for workers and their rights.
rural development, the environment, climate action and fisheries, and economic, social and territorial cohesion.
the commission justified the massive increase in the number of actors and instruments involved in financing the implementation of european policies and programmes by the need to tackle new challenges such as immigration, brexit and climate change.
i say this with the awareness of those who have seen millions of euros of european union funds go to waste, for example for agriculture in the regions of southern italy, funding which, unfortunately, has ended up in the hands of fraudsters and organized crime, as noted in the latest report of the committee for the fight against fraud against the european union, set up by the italian government, which has recorded, among cases of fraud against the financial interests of the union, even cases of collection of contributions, in agriculture, by persons subject to anti-mafia prevention measures.
on the other hand, the eu and the maldives are strong partners in the fight against climate change, which remains one of the important areas of mutual interest.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
we, as the environment committee, had exclusive competence with regard to contaminants and the subject on which we had the most debate was certainly that of cadmium, as the rapporteur, mr ţurcanu, has already mentioned.
my concerns are very acute because even in the commission's fact sheets it is estimated that going to a limit of 40 milligrams would require great efforts and greater investment in technology, etc., etc., but the commission itself acknowledges in these documents that going even to 20 milligrams, as the commission has proposed and as the environment committee has also confirmed, would involve such and greater investment in decadmification and probably even require a general reshaping of the fertiliser market.
you know, from 120 to 150 to 160 we're talking about the united states, we're talking about canada, we're talking about australia: we are not talking about countries that do not care about the environment.
on the one hand, attention to the health of citizens and to environmental safety, and on the other hand, the need for a reasonable period of time for the industrial system to adapt to the new limits envisaged, new limits which, i would remind you all, in most european countries are clearly below the starting limit of this directive, namely the 60 milligrams which we have set as the starting point.
however, what matters - i think, ladies and gentlemen - is to set europe on a course which, through investment, research and development, will make this sector more competitive and our policies more environmentally sustainable.
this regulation seeks to turn waste into resources and create a market for organic fertilisers to encourage natural and clean fertilisers.
on the other hand, we would be encouraging a real transition towards sustainable and natural agriculture which is beneficial for ecosystems, the environment and, of course, people.
in this sense, the availability of quality fertilising products is one of the conditions for the development of more productive and at the same time more sustainable agricultural models, which in the future will have to be able to produce more, using less inputs.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
the european parliament's ambitious position will therefore have to be able to confirm the union's role as a leader in sustainable development, while ensuring the availability of fertilising products at fair prices, without creating further distortions of competition to the detriment of our farmers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation is a step in the right direction, by encouraging the large-scale production of organic fertilisers from waste, in line with the circular economy model, and by facilitating their access to the single market on equal terms with traditional inorganic fertilisers.
i think the envi proposal is reasonable and i think the executive committee's proposal is acceptable, but the compromise that has been advanced for 16 years to reduce cadmium to 20 milligrams per kilogram of product is more a gift to the producers than a serious and responsible position to protect the environment and consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now the fundamental role played by whistleblowers in revealing serious breaches of the public interest has been highlighted by a series of scandals in very different areas, such as the protection of public health, the environment and tax evasion.
asked specifically in which areas the european union should support member states to better protect whistle—blowers, the top four areas they cited were: the fight against fraud and corruption, the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, the protection of the environment and the protection of public health and safety.
this house could and should have dared to do more: legislate clearly for farmers and give them the opportunity to recycle nutrients in a more sustainable way.
i have tabled amendments in the committee on agriculture to emphasize the specific nature of these substances and their use by farmers, and to stress the difficulties in determining the exact percentage of substances harmful to health and the environment.
in addition to administrative waste, we believe that we must cut back on useless and harmful projects, such as the turin-lyon railway line, which does not add any value to the sometimes criminal dome of public contracts and subcontracts, which, in the case of infrastructure works in italy, have been shown to work very well.
the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment.
an environmental and economic impact assessment must be carried out when spending a lot of money.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable growth and employment, especially youth employment, security and climate change must remain at the top of our agenda.
the commission is continuing its efforts to find the most appropriate action, and has the intention to include diesel engine emissions (dee) in its forthcoming second phase consultation of the social partners with a view to considering to address dee in the fourth batch.
as long as this exists and is perpetrated worldwide we cannot have achieved high levels of development, peace, sustainability and acceptance.
the extension of the mandate of eunavfor med operation sophia until 31 august 2018 enables us to continue this task in a sustainable way.
it is now clear, contrary to what mr salvini imagines in his complex dream-work, that there is a need for a change of approach, one that tackles the structural challenges at the root of this process, such as underdevelopment, demographic growth, inequalities, lack of opportunities, climate change, and the need to govern this process by strengthening common legislation on asylum and immigration.
– mr president, the eu migration policy needs to be sustainable.
however, the union must soon develop a long-term strategy, as this house has repeatedly called for, in which the development and economic growth of african states are finally placed at the centre of political action, because the sustainable management of migration can certainly no longer be based solely on emergency initiatives.
we therefore welcome the request to open negotiations with australia and new zealand because we believe that it is possible to establish with them common, virtually global rules that promote a model of sustainable development.
thirdly, the chapter on sustainable development should be an effective and binding instrument for action.
only in this way can we really help to solve the problems caused by the misapplication of union law and avoid situations where social justice, fundamental rights and environmental protection are denied.
i would like to give some examples, particularly in relation to the serious shortcomings in the application and implementation of environmental and air quality legislation.
i am thinking, for example, of my country, italy, which has been subject to infringement proceedings for years now concerning exceeding the limits on air pollutants, which cause the sad record of 86,000 premature deaths due to air pollution in italy every year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a citizen and spokesperson for the five star movement in the european parliament, i am particularly proud to be able to present this ambitious but realistic report on the implementation of the environmental liability directive.
one of these reasons, symbolized by one of the five stars of the movement, is precisely the protection and respect of the environment in all its forms, as a unique and fundamental asset for life and also for future generations.
the first consideration to be made in the area of environmental liability is that the implementation of the directive, which has been uneven and superficial, has not achieved the desired results.
more efforts are needed to make possible a standardisation of environmental liability rules in the european union and, to this end, a clear interpretation of the concept of significant environmental damage threshold and the introduction of standard administrative procedures for reporting threats of environmental damage are needed.
we are particularly concerned that the directive should be updated as soon as possible, extending the concept of environmental damage and its scope of application, in particular with regard to the criteria for determining adverse effects on protected species and habitats, the risks of damage to water and soil, but also to human health and air.
we believe that the costs of repairing environmental damage borne by operators can be reduced by using compulsory financial instruments such as insurance or similar guarantees, which we call for.
it is also appropriate to establish a european fund for the protection of the environment against industrial damage, governed by the directive, to deal with the risks of insolvency and only in cases where the financial guarantee markets fail.
this fund would also be useful in cases of environmental disasters caused by industrial factors when it is not possible to identify the operator responsible for the damage.
the committee also calls for the introduction of a system of civil liability for damage to human health and the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
we also believe that citizens should play a non-secondary role in the system of environmental responsibility.
therefore, they should be provided with adequate means of complaint, both to call for action by the competent authorities and by introducing mechanisms for collective redress for breaches of union environmental law.
all this, as well as the proposal to set up independent authorities with management powers, we believe can help to protect the environment and the health of citizens.
i think that this should be supplemented, because it is important, by the introduction of a system of civil liability for damage to both people and the environment as a whole.
to do this effectively, it is also essential to have regular environmental inspections carried out by the european union with its institutions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need for the implementation of the environmental liability directive has been felt for some time.
i come from a wonderful land, for centuries called the "land of work", which today is sadly known as the "land of fires", a land poisoned by the burial of toxic waste from companies all over europe, and especially from northern italy, which for decades have been using the illegal disposal services offered by organized crime to eliminate, at low cost, the waste of their production activities.
first of all, the definition of environmental damage needs to be reformulated to extend its scope to include fauna, flora, air and landscape and to extend the objective responsibilities to other dangerous activities not currently envisaged.
rules should be introduced to facilitate operators and insurance companies in order to increase the spread of an insurance scheme for environmental damage.
finally, the provision of a more adequate financial control system and the establishment of a national and european register for operators carrying out dangerous activities could also improve the framework for guarantees for environmental damage.
this is the only way to prevent environmental damage.
when we talk about environmental damage, and when we talk about the protection of the health of the citizens who are indirectly harmed when environmental damage is done, it is important to prevent, because subsequent compensation, even in economic terms, will unfortunately never be able to fully restore the health damaged or to restore the environmental situation that has already been violated.
because within the european union it is clear that there are situations of waste transport companies belonging to one member state and operating in another.
i hope that the european commission will take this report into account and that there will be a real improvement in the environment and in the health of the citizens.
together we are working, first, to increase trust and confidence in vaccines, which is very important, through vaccination programmes and health systems, and to enhance the effectiveness and sustainability of vaccination programmes and improve electronic vaccine registries.
mr president, the true lungs of the mediterranean, the posidonia herbaceous plants convert carbon dioxide into oxygen and are therefore vital for the survival of all species.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, the posidonia oceanica is part of our heritage of biodiversity.
due to its particular sensitivity to environmental conditions, it has been considered a true bioindicator.
posidonia today is essential not only to protect coastlines from erosion, but also to preserve the health of the seas by helping to convert carbon dioxide into oxygen.
the effects of climate change on marine and coastal habitats will inevitably have negative consequences also for human activities linked to these environments, such as fishing, and it is certainly human activities that we must act on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to talk about saving our sea, saving the posidonian prairie, when all we need to do is prevent devastating energy infrastructure like tap.
but the real culprits for the disasters in our territories, the real culprits for the devastation of our seas are you who are not able to say no to the oil and gas lobbies, you who are not able to initiate a real transition to renewable energy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, coastal marine habitats are essential for the conversion of carbon dioxide into oxygen, for the productivity of marine resources, for the protection of the coast and for other fundamental ecological functions that these habitats perform for humans and other species.
however, these habitats are under severe anthropogenic pressures, either directly caused by humans or as a consequence of global climate change.
posidonia oceanica, an aquatic plant endemic to the mediterranean sea, is one of the most resilient and productive species in the biosphere, is part of an important ecosystem for the conservation of biodiversity and plays a fundamental role in coastal defence, as it acts as a shock absorber to wave action and hinders the erosion of the coasts by the sea.
nevertheless, its population has declined dramatically over the past two decades due to dredging and trawling, coastal development, eutrophication and other forms of pollution, climate change, and mechanical damage caused by boat anchoring.
we have made concrete proposals, including the promotion of small and medium-sized farms and rural and mountain farms which, using traditional production techniques and methods, exploit natural resources in an integrated and sustainable way, produce products with specific quality characteristics and can help to reverse the trend towards depopulation.
a change of approach is needed if the european union is to integrate demographic aspects into all its policies in order to enable development, particularly in cohesion, employment, agriculture, the environment, research, employment, education, social policy and transport.
firstly, the possibility of continuing to use an alternative method of calculating dumping to the standard method, the strengthening of the definition of significant destruction and the introduction of criteria which are finally becoming complete and strong, especially in parliament's contribution to the valid commission proposal, and which also go in the direction of finally giving an opening to social, environmental and also the transfer of the burden of proof, where the commission's statement was precisely that there will be no further burdens on our industry with respect to the procedure, transparency and the commission's reports.
the work of parliament has led to the first time that the failure to apply internationally recognised social and environmental standards is taken into account in the assessment of unfair competition practices.
the new regulation has the merit of including the reference to international environmental and labour standards to identify any significant distortions of prices and market costs, and ensures continuity with the current protection system, without additional burden for european industry.
in assessing unfair trading practices, due consideration shall be given to compliance with environmental criteria and, with reference to the standards of the international labour organisation, to compliance with labour law.
also, as you have mentioned, it is taking into account social and environmental standards in a trade defence context for the first time.
the key priorities under the heading ‘resilience’, referring to improved political security as well as environmental, economic and social resilience, are duly reflected in our work with african partners.
we require inclusive development and sustainable growth for large-scale job creation.
more broadly, this will provide a critical opportunity for the eu and africa to build a stronger political partnership and increase our cooperation in the international arena, guided by: the un’s 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals; the african union’s agenda 2063; the global strategy for the european union’s foreign and security policy; as well as the new european consensus on development.
the summit should strive to bring africa and europe closer together through the strengthening of economic cooperation and the promotion of sustainable development, with both continents living side by side in peace, security, democracy, prosperity, solidarity and human dignity.
sustainable energy and agriculture, the blue economy, building climate resilience, and research and innovation are equally important, and the list goes on.
it will also deal with innovative financing and provide a platform to promote the eu’s new external investment plan, agri-business, renewable energy and digitalisation.
in calling for a new partnership strategy, we refer to the sacred right of african citizens to live in territories that guarantee well-being and dignity for all, economic development, food security, good governance, security tout court, migration and mobility, the environment.
migration, raw materials, terrorism, population growth, peace and security, environment and development are just some of the areas where cooperation between the two continents can bear important fruit and it is crucial to keep this in mind in view of the eu-africa summit in abidjan.
i must assure the house that the commission is committed to fostering sustainable development and inclusive growth in africa, in line with the priorities identified in the report.
it is good to know that the key priorities covered by the report include economic development and job creation, natural resources, good governance, security, migration, the environment, education and youth – largely in line with the commission’s priorities as well.
as commissioner for the environment, i was also pleased to note the emphasis of the report – as well as the comments during this debate – on sustainable development, including the sustainable use of natural resources such as minerals, timber and wildlife, sustainable agriculture and industry, and the development of the blue economy and maritime industry.
as i said earlier, the upcoming au—eu summit will be a testimony to our collective engagement, and a great opportunity to promote sustainable development for the benefit of all.
your first question is about the links between the action plan and the 2020 biodiversity strategy.
the aim of the plan is rapidly to improve the practical implementation of the directives, to accelerate progress towards the eu 2020 goal of halting and reversing the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services, and to improve consistency between the habitats and birds directives and broader socio-economic objectives.
implementation of the action plan is essential in order to make progress on target 1 of the eu biodiversity strategy, to – and i quote – ‘fully implement the birds and habitats directives’.
most of the actions are being launched in 2017 so that the commission can report on their delivery before the end of its current term of office in 2019. we are aware that further efforts are needed to reach the 2020 biodiversity targets.
since you also asked about the commission’s intentions from 2020 onwards, i can tell you that the nature directives provide a solid and long-term legal foundation for eu biodiversity policy.
the commission plans to evaluate the eu biodiversity strategy and to report on its finding by 2020. the outcome of this evaluation will feed into thinking on the follow-up to the current eu biodiversity strategy, along with a global biodiversity framework for post-2020.
in addition, action 1(b) of the action plan will motivate decision-makers to invest in green infrastructure through the provision of deeper guidance and appreciation of the value of ecosystem services.
the third question is about mainstreaming natura 2000 and wider biodiversity measures with other policies, especially with the common agricultural policy (cap).
as regards the current funding framework, natura 2000 and wider biodiversity measures can be co-financed under several eu policies.
actions 9 to 12 of the action plan aim to facilitate full and effective use of the financial resources allocated for biodiversity protection and natura 2000 sites in the period 2014-2020 under the various programmes and, where feasible, to promote increased allocations and uptake.
in the context of action 9 under the action plan, the impact of the cap on biodiversity will be addressed in a specific evaluation scheduled for the second half of 2018. in accordance with the commission guidelines, such an evaluation includes an assessment of consistency between the various policy areas concerned.
it is too early to give indications of how natura 2000 and wider biodiversity measures will be taken into account.
in our environmental implementation review (eir) we will be presenting a peer—to—peer.
i agree with ms catherine bearder that we are almost testing our biodiversity to its limits and that the news is not good, but i have to say that improvements – hopefully – will be made.
we are always talking about the natura 2000 sites, which cover only 20% of our land, but we have to keep in mind that we still have to manage and protect our biodiversity in the other 80% which is outside the natura 2000 areas.
he also mentioned the three sectors: transport, energy and agriculture, and their financing.
as i said before, we have to make certain that every single euro spent in the multiannual financial framework (mff) is spent with greening and sustainability in mind.
when we talk about the farmers and biodiversity, we have to look at the farmers as part of the solution and not always as part of the problem.
i agree with him, that is the sustainability concept.
we are not talking environment, we are not talking only nature but we are talking about sustainability.
sustainability does not start and end with nature, it does not start and end with people, it does not even start and end with the economy.
the idea of sustainability is that one of these sectors does not move forward at the expense of the others.
the last time i spoke about wolves was about two weeks ago in sweden, where they have a different problem because the problem in sweden is, from an environmental perspective, their genetic status, not a question of numbers.
when scientists started talking about the great barrier reef and the problems it will have with climate change, this was 20 years ago and they predicted that by 2050 the great barrier reef and other reefs will have problems.
many colleagues have spoken about reception, about qualifications, that is, about the possibilities we have to distinguish whether there are refugees, whether there are climate refugees, whether there are economic refugees.
now, we can't meet at the beginning of every season to discuss how to deal with the climate emergency of refugees.
the current system is not sustainable in the long run.
we are all working to achieve the same goal: decent living conditions for all migrants immediately and better, sustainable migration management in the long term.
the time is right, road transport is, as has been said, the most widely used mode of transport in europe and action is needed to prevent situations leading to distortion of competition, but also to address environmental and road safety issues.
however, no matter how much we try in terms of research and technological applications, we will not be able to make co2 emissions acceptable by using a combustion engine and going beyond euro 6. we have to be realistic.
this means that it is good to push for electricity, but let's not forget about hydrogen and other types that are already widely tested, because until the source of electricity generation is totally sustainable, we cannot talk about true decarbonization.
until the environmental cost of producing an electric vehicle over its entire life cycle is actually lower than that of a conventional vehicle, we cannot be satisfied and talk about a real energy transition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, the european commission's new proposals to strengthen european leadership in the field of clean and sustainable vehicles are of vital importance to all citizens of the union.
these proposals set new targets for the average co2 emissions of new cars and vans in europe.
i agree with the commission that there must be a clear change of pace and mindset in europe and that the 40% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030 must also be achieved mainly through transport.
the future is not just to reduce car emissions but also to encourage the use of less polluting means of transport, to develop intermodality in transport and to push for digitalisation to become a tool that allows us to travel seamlessly with a single ticket.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the entry into force of the paris agreement, the international community has committed itself to achieving a reduction in carbon emissions and to moving towards a world energy transition.
this transition goes far beyond transport, agriculture, construction, waste management and emissions, as it should be seen as an additional element in our commitment to modernise the economy and to make it a so-called green economy.
this is a key point, because we have to pay close attention to the chinese development on this issue, which already in 2020 wants to be ready and first on the market from a renewable energy point of view and also from an all-electric mobility point of view.
not all national infrastructures are ready to have truly green mobility, electric mobility and also with the use of renewable energies.
so absolutely a good luck charm because it's our future that needs to be more environmentally sustainable.
– madam president, first of all, i would like to thank parliament for the interest it is taking, through this question and its resolution, in the new environmental implementation review initiative.
in terms of addressing implementation gaps in eu environmental legislation and policy, this initiative has a high potential.
in addition to contributing to the environment ministers’ input into the european semester, the environmental implementation review process is meant to become a distinct and consistent process.
it would involve several important elements: the preparation of environmental implementation review country reports and bilateral discussions with the member states, as well as the identification of common issues and their discussion in the environmental council.
on 28 february 2017, the environment council held its latest exchange of views on greening the european semester.
the economic system depends largely on the availability and sustainable use of limited natural resources.
keeping this in mind, greening the economy and advancing the transition towards a resource efficient circular economy becomes essential to secure future competitiveness and long-term sustainable and inclusive growth.
in this context, ministers also discussed the commission’s communication on the eu environmental implementation review.
they welcomed this initiative as a useful tool to help improve implementation of eu environmental policy and legislation at national level and contribute to the greening of the european semester.
as regards the specific questions that you have raised at this early stage of the environmental implementation review process, i would like to limit myself to the following comments.
it is to be expected that the different strands of the implementation process of the environmental implementation review, and in particular the dialogue with the member states on the basis of the country reports, will allow us to carry out a structured dialogue in council.
member states are generally responding positively to the environmental implementation review process.
i also encourage other countries to organise action-oriented country dialogues and to hold forward—looking debates on environmental challenges.
the current environmental implementation review cycle is already very ambitious and covers a large number of complex and very significant areas.
in terms of broadening the scope of the environmental implementation review to other policy areas in the future, we find it essential that environmental challenges are tackled in a comprehensive manner and that all relevant policies are taken into account.
the real added value of the environmental implementation review will come from in—depth impartial analysis.
the council would then discuss environmental implementation review-related issues at regular intervals in line with the cycle, also ensuring complementarity with the discussion on the greening of the european semester and the relevant post—2020 strategies.lastly, in many areas environmental policy is interlinked with other domains.
commissioner vella wishes to thank the author and all of the people involved in the interest in the environmental implementation review (eir) and for your support for this important initiative.
the main goal of the eir was to draw attention to the need for improved implementation in order to attain the european union’s environmental objectives.
the environmental targets and deadlines which need to be achieved by the member states are included in the legal obligations set out in the environmental aquis and are being monitored per directive and regulation.
the commission’s ongoing initiative in streamlining reporting requirements in eu environmental law is expected to improve the quality and completeness of the data significantly.
the eir takes a holistic approach, reflecting the spirit of the sustainable development goals.
and the commission is taking steps to ensure that the second review cycle will be even more comprehensive by including chemicals, industrial emissions and the implementation of climate change policies.
the nexus with climate change and other policies will also be developed as much as possible.
however, if the eir succeeds over time in improving implementation, as is expected, fewer infringement procedures will be needed and, therefore, fewer resources will have to be spent on legal proceedings, and we should have enhanced environmental protection due to upstream and systematic solutions.
the european union is leading the world in environmental protection, and so the regulations we have set for ourselves on air quality, water quality, waste management, and i could go on.
this is essential not only for the union's credibility, but also for the protection of the environment and the health of our citizens, and also for the economic benefits.
we see this very well, for example, with the circular economy impact assessment, the benefits in terms of employment and economic growth that effective and efficient waste management can bring.
the commission has therefore put in place a tool to assess the performance of the member states in implementing environmental legislation.
let's think about the energy efficiency resolution, the transport sector, climate change.
i am glad to hear that there is already an opening, as the commissioner said, also because it is unthinkable today not to consider the impact of climate change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this resolution of parliament because we believe that the review of implementation is an essential tool for getting the most out of environmental policies in the european union, but also for defining and charting that path, those milestones that we need to reach the sustainable future in europe.
however, we believe that all this can only happen if we really tackle the paradox of very strong european environmental legislation on the one hand and completely ineffective implementation on the other.
first of all: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of sanctions which are really effective for those member states which fail to enforce the polluter pays principle.
they can't be the citizens who pay twice: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not damaged, and that the environment is not affected.
they must pay the people responsible, who are very often the environment ministries of the individual member states, who are sitting in their chairs, although they are responsible.
if these three things are not done, europe will never have a sustainable future.
in short, the europe of development and sustainable and inclusive growth can only start from here, from the europe of opportunities for all and for all.
new zealand, it was said, is one of our closest neighbours, sharing the same democratic values and principles, respect for human rights, and fundamental issues such as peace, security and the environment.
new zealand is a country with high standards of civilization that promotes sustainable production methods, particularly in the food sector, and has promoted global climate and emission mitigation agreements globally.
can i also say to ms heubuch that we will include, as we do in every free-trade negotiating mandate, issues around environment, issues around animal welfare, animal health, and indeed plant health.
this is why we will support this resolution by which we urge the sudanese government to stop its heinous practices against journalists and editors, in order to start to build a democratic environment where both the rule of law and human rights are respected.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the european union's policy on the environment.
the socio-political climate in madagascar is on the verge of catastrophe.
one of the most spectacular countries on the planet from an environmental point of view, but unable to exploit its resources because of continuous internal conflicts.
the european union must support the human rights defenders in the country and work to ensure that the forthcoming democratic elections take place in a climate of calm and respect for the constitutional order.
i believe that the european union should support madagascar because it is investing in the provision and support of human rights defenders and to ensure that the 2018 elections are held in a climate of dialogue and credibility that can guarantee a fair and free electoral process.
in addition, both europe and china need to focus on improving the tourist experience by promoting lesser-known and more sustainable destinations, thus avoiding the problem of mass tourism.
getting to these locations, also thanks to digitisation, will help the territories to find economic sustainability, avoid depopulation and alleviate the influx of tourists in overcrowded destinations.
the fact that we took this decision in a timely manner without delay at the first attempt shows the european union's ability to act even in a difficult financial, economic and political environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy union is the flagship project of the juncker commission and perhaps of the entire legislature, and yet the risk that it will not be fully realised is very high.
the third annual report on the subject gives encouraging data: the european union is transforming into a low-carbon society, with record levels of renewable energy, at rapidly decreasing costs, but europe's energy infrastructure is not developing in the same direction and at the same speed to support this energy transition.
the european union is called upon to modernise an obsolete energy infrastructure, to fully integrate its energy markets and to ensure the coordination of national energy prices.
the energy union has the dual objective of ensuring energy security and combating climate change, while providing secure and sustainable energy at affordable prices and new jobs in the green economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to a report by the commission, europe is moving from an energy system based on fossil fuels to one based on carbon emissions, digitalised and consumer-centred.
the eib operations supporting them, together with the generous subsidies from some states, are in total contradiction to the european union's commitments on clean energy.
global geopolitical events, global competition for energy and the impact of climate change are triggering a rethinking of the eu's energy and climate strategy.
the challenges we face are unprecedented: increasing dependence on energy imports, scarce energy resources and the need to mitigate climate change, all in a context of limited financial resources.
the third state of the energy union report shows that progress has been made towards the eu 2020 targets for emission reductions, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
our market should be in line with recent transformations, such as the increased presence of renewable sources with market-driven remuneration; the further integration of national markets through the development of interconnections; the development of smart grids and new decentralised generation technologies.
there is climate change, things have changed, we must secure our territories, we must equip ourselves with other instruments, we must allow more investment.
what we need, commissioner, is an international tribunal for the crimes committed by many multinationals against the citizens of the world: the murder, the land grabbing, the contamination, the pollution.
the survey, which measured wealth, consumption, employment, the environment, services, demography, justice, security and culture, highlights a widening gap between the south and the north, with many southern cities ranking last.
this report, drawn up in close cooperation with representative organisations of people with disabilities, sets out the objectives and sets out concrete and sustainable guidelines for a future europe that is accessible, inclusive and cohesive, in which people with disabilities, the elderly and people with temporary functional limitations are also enabled to participate in the social, economic and political life of the community in an active and independent way.
a virtuous circle must be set in motion which can fully exploit the potential of the individual, promoting independent living and the full inclusion of people with disabilities and making them a positive and productive element also within the work environment.
the second positive result is that with the omnibus regulation we are implementing a small reform of the cap which is in the process of being implemented: we are going to correct, adjust, those rules that have proven to be lacking, complex and inefficient, thus moving towards supporting farmers, improving the agro-food production system and protecting the environment.
the new set of rules achieves many of the objectives related to the environmental and economic sustainability of fishing, but without punishing the operators in the sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached on the new legislative framework for the sustainable management of external fishing fleets is certainly a very good achievement, and i congratulate the rapporteur on that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, aviation is a huge source of greenhouse gas emissions, and if no action is taken to reduce them, they are expected to quadruple by 2050 compared to 2010. for these reasons, the overall reduction of national greenhouse gas emissions is a key objective of european union policy.
in this sense, the ets is an essential tool for a cost-effective reduction of these emissions.
this will avoid the fragmentation of airspace and optimise the flow of traffic, resulting in reduced emissions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly and, if no action is taken, could reach four times the level of 2010 by 2050. the increase in aviation emissions risks undermining the efforts of the european union and the world to effectively address climate change.
i too express my support for the extension until 2020 of the current eu ets, which reduces emissions by some 17 million tonnes of co2 per year, until there is sufficient clarity on the nature and content of the legal instruments adopted by icao for the implementation of a global measure, the so-called corsia.
this means that within the european economic area, the aviation sector will continue to contribute, like every other economic sector, to efforts to reduce domestic emissions.
finally, efsi 2.0 will better focus on eu political priorities, such as climate change and environmental projects.
i am in favour of a rationalisation of public spending on really productive investment, but we need to loosen the bridges of austerity, otherwise there will be no hope for some countries to repay this monstrous public debt, which my country has, for example, but you cannot repay a public debt of 135 per cent of gdp, you must in my view make gdp grow in a sustainable way, so that the denominator is lowered.
as regards the projects financed so far by the juncker fund, i unfortunately do not see much additionality, and within the proposals that are there, i do not understand why the greens continue to support it, precisely because there are still projects focused on fossil fuels, on non-renewable sources and so - i had a minute and a half, madam president - and so i wonder how it is possible that sustainable projects are not financed.
more quality with climate change earmarking, with the scoreboard, with support for small projects, more quantity and better regional distribution with pricing rules and blending rules with structural funds, and finally more transparency and more democracy with changes in governance.
afghanistan was an eden, with a climate particularly favorable to its neighbors.
on the one hand, we have to find a solution to the issue of the rohingya that is sustainable and in full respect of all of their rights.
we believe that the only way to achieve this goal is through direct negotiations between the parties based on the 1967 borders and that there is no alternative solution that would be both viable and sustainable, meet the aspirations of the two sides and address the legitimate concerns.
and the same anxieties of the people of the republic of ireland and northern ireland are re-emerging the role of a union that will quell conflict and bring peace, and also the fears of trade unions and workers, the risks of social and environmental dumping, the european union with the negotiation has reminded that europe, the european union, remains a force that protects.
but we cannot but express our dissatisfaction with the other points that are missing: the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
europe must lead this process, respecting the specificities of the different cultures but aiming at a single objective: the european council in brussels on 21 and 22 december called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the union is able to contribute to the development of a new global economy, based on fair opportunities and inclusive, sustainable and harmonious growth.
we're talking about resources that are needed now, not after 2030, as well as using gdp as the only indicator for sustainable economic growth, and i could go on.
the report therefore does not allow us to draw any conclusions on the actual possibility that the union will be able to maintain the commitments it has made under agenda 2030. a careful analysis of the impact of union policies on sustainable development is lacking, which is essential to develop a comprehensive implementation strategy at european level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the analysis of eurostat data on the current situation in europe with regard to the 17 sustainable development objectives reveals a not very encouraging picture.
some progress, few indeed, has been made in the area of sustainability, especially with regard to the environment, clean energy, responsible consumption and production, health and welfare, but too little has been made in the area of social progress.
unfortunately, due to lack of data, we are not able to make an assessment on some of the most important sustainable development goals: fight against climate change, peace and justice.
the effects of climate change have hit many member states hard in recent years.
action that helps save lives, livelihoods and of course our environment.
it is an illusion for anyone to believe that any country can face alone the size of the current natural disasters because of climate change.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable, low-emission mobility is one of the key elements of the broader transition to a new model of development that europe needs to remain competitive and create new and good jobs.
greenhouse gas emissions from transport account for a quarter of total emissions, are constantly increasing and are the main cause of air pollution.
the opinion of the envi committee, of which i was rapporteur, and which has been incorporated in its entirety in this report, examines the emissions of all the main means of transport: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on biofuels and bioliquids, in particular by ensuring that the union's policy on biofuels and bioliquids is consistent with the union's policy on biofuels and bioliquids.
in the case of cars and vans, it calls for ambitious co2 targets for 2025 and for the development of a road test to calculate real emissions.
for heavy vehicles, an important new feature: after years of fruitless debate, we will finally have a regulation by 2018 on the monitoring, certification and publication of data on emissions and consumption of heavy goods vehicles, and a proposal for emission limits to follow.
finally, we call for a coordinated eu-wide type-approval and market surveillance system to overcome the shortcomings highlighted by 'dieselgate', by reducing the compliance factor for nitrogen oxide emissions to 1 by 2021.
member of the commission.
as highlighted in president juncker’s state of the union address in september, we should strive to become the world leader in the fight against climate change.
the transition to a modern and low-carbon economy is a key political priority for the commission.
we need to address this challenge of climate change and at the same time, we must strive to extend the competitive edge of our industries, generate sustainable economic growth and jobs, and drive innovation in clean technologies.
transport is responsible for almost a quarter of europe’s greenhouse gas emissions and contributes significantly to air pollution.
if we were to do nothing, the sector would become the largest emitter of co2 emissions after 2030. low-emission mobility is therefore absolutely essential to meet our commitments under the cop 21 paris agreement and also to meet the 2030 energy and climate goals we agreed on.
a well-defined eu strategy for the transport sector is essential, and it must cover all three core areas: first, higher efficiency of the transport system; second, low-emission alternative energy for transport; and third, low and zero-emission vehicles.
by making our transport network more efficient, we can reduce the energy consumed, cut journey times and better serve the end user.
on alternative energy however, it is not just about transport efficiency.
the second area we are tackling is that of energy.
promoting alternative energy sources for transport is essential.
at present, 94% of transport energy is still derived from oil.
this means high emissions and dependency on imports.
to speed up the transition to alternative energy, the commission has proposed recasting the renewable energy directive.
we have a clear expectation that the proposed gradual reduction of conventional crop-based biofuels and increase of advanced biofuels will promote the development and deployment of innovative advanced renewable fuels.
but emissions need to be reduced even further.
action is also needed to reduce emissions from heavy duty vehicles and this will be proposed next year by the commission in its third mobility package.
with the clean energy for all europeans package, the europe on the move package and the clean mobility package, the commission has already put forward proposals covering a large part of the action agenda of this strategy.
we now very much count on your continued constructive support to the low-emissions strategy and the various initiatives that flow from it.
we have emerging countries where there is a growing demand for energy: india, right now, has implemented a policy that will bring massive investment in nuclear and renewables by 2040. but despite this, by 2040 india will still have 60 percent of its energy produced through coal.
it is a global policy implemented within the wto, where we give the possibility to allow emerging economies to implement a development policy that meets their energy demand through renewable, sustainable sources.
but let us not forget that a real transition to sustainable sources must take into account both the direct and indirect aspects of the use of an energy source.
so it would be much better to diversify sustainable mobility solutions, rather than just focus on electric.
european transport systems are not only a source of mobility needs, but also of innumerable problems, such as greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution from urban areas.
in addition, from 2030, the transport sector will become the main source of greenhouse gas emissions in europe.
we must also encourage the development and use of alternative energy and zero-emission vehicles.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all the signatories to the paris agreement have committed themselves to limiting co2 emissions.
electric transport systems, whether private or public, can help solve the major problems of urban mobility by reducing emissions and completely eliminating pollutants and noise from our cities.
but the sustainability of electric vehicles also depends on the use of electricity produced from renewable sources, thus being part of a more complex system.
the transition to low-emission mobility therefore represents not only an opportunity for manufacturers and suppliers in the automotive, railway, maritime and aviation sectors, but also and above all a challenge to rethink our energy supply system as a whole.
the integrity of the voting system needs to be complemented by a democratic long-term environment.