efficient and sustainable freight logistics play a key role in ensuring the smooth running of many other services and activities in our economy, covering the entire cycle from the production and supply of goods to secondary processing, and from the local to the global level.
eu logistics and freight transport policy should aim to increase the capacity to maintain a favourable environment, remove barriers and exploit the potential for growth and employment in this sector in the light of emerging economic and social trends, dynamic technological change and growing international trade.
rising energy prices, the need to reduce co2 emissions, competition in the skilled labour market in an ageing society, accelerating digitalisation, automated and autonomous vehicles and operations, increasingly integrated supply chains, the wider use of containers - all of this presents a range of challenges and opportunities.
we need to reassess the methodology and criteria for the development of freight networks and ensure that investment is made in particular in alternative freight routes linking less congested hubs, terminals, airports and ports, also taking into account environmental protection and noise reduction.
we also need to create a family-friendly environment so that people can balance work and life.
increased employment and social protection would also increase the amount of income collected, thus increasing the sustainability of the welfare state, and this is a major challenge we are facing now.
i am very grateful for the energy package, the importance of which has already been stressed by my colleagues who spoke before me, and i believe that the creation of a genuine, strong and independent energy union must be based on clear and coherent plans and action in line with the objectives set.
the nordstream 2 project is a major test not only for the energy union that is being built, but also for the unity and solidarity of the european union as a whole.
this is a geopolitical project and i would therefore urge the commissioner to undertake a comprehensive economic, environmental and political assessment of the nordstream 2 project.
– i believe that a true european energy union is crucial if we want to revive and modernise the entire european economy.
by overcoming energy fragmentation or ‘energy islands’ we are moving to a cheaper, more efficient and cleaner energy era.
i believe that the completion of the energy union is as well extremely important if we want to achieve the goals of the paris climate change agreement.
however, i am still very concerned by such projects as the nord stream ii, which completely sabotage the main goal of reducing energy dependence on third countries such as russia.
the purpose of adoption is not to give adults a right to a child but to provide a stable environment in which the child can grow harmoniously, surrounded by care and love.
the european parliament's environment committee has made its position very clear, and i hope that parliament will do the same on wednesday.
criticism of the way public services are regulated in this agreement is completely unfounded (i am talking about education, health and the environment).
in the context of both trade agreements with third countries and climate change mitigation agreements, citizens' expectations have increased even more.
climate change, new shipping routes, new fishing and natural resource areas, and increased competition for the arctic and its natural resources are encouraging many countries to become more active in the region.
the arctic is a region of many key interests: sharing of territory with neighbouring countries, exploitation of energy resources, the emergence of important new transport routes, the conservation of resources in the face of climate change, and the development and deployment of military capabilities across the region.
the complex problems that are particularly evident in the arctic, such as the extreme climate and the vast natural resources it contains, on the one hand, and the high investment and attractive infrastructure projects on the other, require broad and effective partnerships.
the preservation and enhancement of the arctic ecosystem's capacity must be a key objective of the global community.
in this area, the eu's investment and structural funds play a vital role in the development of the european arctic, promoting sustainable economic growth and the creation of quality jobs in future-oriented sectors.
our european union, too, is guided by this principle in its external action, because women's rights and gender equality are not only fundamental human rights, but also indispensable means of promoting development and reducing poverty and the basis for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world.
the report also lacks measures to combat unjustified increases in traffic and pollution.
a socially sustainable and competitive knowledge society must enable citizens in their countries not only to respond flexibly to changes in the labour market, but also to exploit globalisation as an opportunity to expand borders, to meet cultures and to work together to build a new world of the future.
this cooperation is also important for the rest of the european union, as its main objective is to promote progressive, sustainable and inclusive growth, reducing economic and social disparities between countries and contributing to the sustainable development of the continent as a whole.
for example, to ease the effects of the economic and financial crisis, to react to migration and refugees’ integration challenges, to deal with climate change, the digital agenda, innovation demand and energy safety issues, amongst many.
mr president, i fully support the rapporteur’s stance on amending the commission’s proposals on climate action regulation implementing the paris agreement.
the amended proposal focuses on long—term predictability and energy efficiency, and aims to provide sufficient flexibility for the member states.
you know that, to achieve a proper implementation of the paris climate change agreement, it is very important to think beyond the 2030 target, which is precisely what the amended regulation proposes by setting out a long-term objective towards at least 80 % greenhouse gas emissions reductions by 2050. although, i would be glad to see a bit more flexibility in terms of encouraging member states’ contribution to climate action in terms of agriculture and forestry activities.
– i support the approach of the joint communication presented in the report which identifies three work streams: supporting culture as an engine for sustainable social and economic development, promoting culture and intercultural dialogue for peaceful inter-community relations, and reinforcing cooperation on cultural heritage.
i would also like to congratulate the estonian government on its presidency programme for emphasising that all europeans must have equal opportunities to acquire the necessary skills, a high-quality education, to find a job or to access services in order to ensure the sustainability of society and the economic and social well-being of europe.
the decision on the european fund for sustainable development is certainly important for europe as a whole.
i would like to emphasise that this fund should contribute to the sustainable development goals, to ensuring stability and to promoting private capital investment not only in africa but also in our eastern neighbourhood.
it is of particular importance that the potential of the fund is maximalised in the eastern neighbourhood of the european union, the eastern partnership countries and ukraine in particular, as the stability and economic sustainability of the eastern neighbourhood are of major importance for the future of europe as a whole.
the main advantage of the plan is the newly designed instrument, the european fund for sustainable development fund, and its guarantee which, with the contributions of the european investment bank, will be employed to attract public and private investment and manage risks.
stopping climate change is without a doubt one of the most important issues of the day.
using forests as a means of carbon capture, even on the most modest estimates, will be cheaper and more efficient than any improvement in hydrocarbon engines that is possible today.
the regulation under discussion today should help and become a great tool to help forestry to reduce climate change.
in particular, the provision that, in its proposal, forests growing in the year 1999 were climate-neutral during the historical reference period.
at the same time, we should remember that the aim of european regulation in this area must be to strengthen the motivation of both the member states and the rest of the world to grow more forests as a means of curbing climate change.
the latin america and caribbean region constitutes a strategic partner for the eu – a key partner – when it comes to jointly facing current global challenges, such as peace and security, economic development, climate change an combating tax havens, etc.
the increasingly politicized energy issues of recent times can only mean one rising energy costs.
in an economy, cheaper energy resources always mean lower production costs.
nord stream 2 is a kind of test of the effectiveness of the european energy union's solidarity.
the project clearly contradicts the objectives of the european union's energy, security and neighbourhood policy, but as we can see, it is still difficult to harmonise the common position between member states.
given that the south stream project was suspended under the eu energy security strategy for non-compliance with eu law, we must ensure that the project that replaces it will not be able to circumvent eu law.
moldova the litmus test of the eu's external relations mechanisms it is a poor and poorly governed country that needs help in both sustainable development and good governance.
one of the united nations sustainable development goals is to eliminate all harmful practices, including child and forced marriage.
we need to work on these issues and address them in a way that improves the socio-economic climate and stimulates economic growth.
sustainable and socially responsible economic growth in the euro area based on cooperation is of great importance to all of us.
our relationship with australia and new zealand has evolved over the past decades from a basic economic one into a strategic, political one that is based on common values, social and environmental standards, data protection, food safety requirements and so on.
it is also extremely important that negotiations are conducted in a transparent way and a strong sustainability chapter is a must.
i believe that economic policy, job creation and sustainability in certain regions - that must be our response, rather than the very generous development of social policy in those regions.
when that time comes, when the homework is done and the necessary requirements fulfilled, potential membership of these countries in the customs union, the digital union and the energy union should be considered as an option.
i have in mind structural reforms and the creation of an investment-friendly environment, the strengthening of the rule of law and the fight against corruption in the countries concerned.
the investment support is dedicated not to the oligarchy – not to profit oligarchs in these countries – it is dedicated to ordinary people, notably in such fields as energy savings, road infrastructure, jobs, public services, small and medium-sized businesses and reconstruction if, as in the case of ukraine, the country is at war.
i hope that the upcoming meeting will agree on new incentives to deepen the political and economic integration of the eastern partners, review the mutual commitments of the european union and the partners and deepen cooperation in addressing common challenges, in particular in the areas of nuclear safety and the environmental agreement.
addressing gender inequalities in the labour market will reduce inequalities and have a positive impact on sustainable growth.
such changes are also clearly unfavourable for the climate, as they create an imbalance between the crop and livestock sectors.
the environmental impact cannot be ignored.
i'm not going to repeat the statistics of the impact of climate change on the new zealand livestock sector alone.
do we really want to boost it further, while accelerating climate change?
it is important to establish a sustainable public administration and to take effective measures to stabilise the political situation and the social and economic level.
the hiring of assistants, additional adaptation of the environment, additional necessary equipment, medicines and many other things.
we must aim to achieve an inclusive peace process, as only a regional solution can be sustainable.
finally, regarding the eu engagement on migration challenges, those coming back home from europe or its neighbouring countries must find a safe environment with real opportunities to restart their lives.
a 22-year-old blogger and videographer, who wanted to unravel the environmental disaster in ha tinh province to the public, he was sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment for having disseminated online information.
also recently a vietnamese court upheld the 10-year sentence on another blogger, nguyen ngoc nhu quynh, after she issued critical posts on environmental degradation and deaths in police custody.
the dissolution of the cambodia national rescue party and the worsening climate for opposition politicians raises serious concerns, as well as the strong influence of china in the political life of cambodia, which is playing an important role in political decisions in that country.