this would represent a paradigm shift in development cooperation under the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and enable us all to better respond to the more complex and interconnected challenges the world faces today.
the rest of the world expects ambition from us in the implementation of the 2030 agenda and its sustainable development goals: an agenda based on openness, multilateralism and the objective of shared prosperity.
it will also contribute to supporting the implementation of the landmark paris agreement on climate change.
this would allow for signature at our flagship event, the european development days in early june, and would provide the opportunity to present our new consensus internationally at the united nations high level political forum for sustainable development in july.
under the setup of the lisbon treaty, which aims at ensuring greater coherence of the union’s policies and coordination with member states, the principles of development effectiveness and policy coherence for development and the links with other policies, such as migration, security, energy, climate, gain ever greater importance.
but we are aware that mortgages weigh heavily on the stability and sustainability of our banking system and, therefore, on the european economy.
voting against it is perpetuating private justice and rejecting high international standards in social, environmental and agri-food matters.
the boost europe needs can only come from a core of european countries ready to move forward towards a europe of security, but with common instruments, towards a europe of peace, with common defence capabilities and a real foreign minister, towards a europe of prosperity, with a budget worthy of the name to invest in youth, social progress and digital and energy infrastructures, towards a europe of freedom, with the conditionality of european funds to respect the law and values of the union, and towards a europe of democracy, with a directly elected president and a council of ministers acting by a simple majority.
for instance, 18 parliamentary chambers in 2015 submitted an initiative on food waste to the commission.
the industry said at the time that instead of having a, b, c - simple, understandable for the citizens - energy classes, we are going to a+, a++, a+++.
i think if we're serious about climate change, there has to come a point where we say in new homes, we can't afford to use fossil fuels for heating anymore.
we cannot say one day: 'trump is irresponsible' and not, as it were, fight for climate protection in europe the next day.
it is an agreement which allows us to initiate sectoral dialogues and cooperation in very important areas, from the protection of artistic heritage, to cultural cooperation, to energy, migration, the environment, scientific cooperation and many others, including the dialogue on human rights.
on the development side, we will continue to focus on the aspects of food self-sufficiency, which is essential, and sustainable energy production, which is a sector of the future for cuba.
for three or four years i have been fighting alongside jean-louis borloo, the former french minister for the environment, to organize a future for young people in africa.
so the only way to combat these waves of migrants and their despair is to bring solar energy to africa.
the second thing we should be proud of is that this is the first piece of energy legislation where we go beyond our dilemma, which is everything only at one national level or everything only at eu level.
this should also now be the basis of our electricity legislation: on security of supply, on markets, i would even say in the future, on renewable developments.
second fact: software updates have been found fake by the judge in stuttgart, have been found fake by the ministry of the environment in germany.
the point of a good strategy is to have a common understanding of the big challenges we have in common: climate, insecurity, terrorism and so on.
when you look at the emissions in the transport sector, you will see that while in the housing sector and the power sector we have been able to go down, in the transport sector there is nothing!
in 1996, ms merkel – then minister for the environment under helmut köhl – prevented europe from having binding legislation on co2 and cars.
– mr president, the eu demonstrated strong leadership in the negotiations that led to the adoption of the 2030 agenda and its 17 sustainable development goals in september 2015. we must continue to lead the implementation phase as well.
the member states have been leading by example, notably through voluntary national reporting in the context of the united nations high-level political forum on sustainable development.
in this respect, the council adapted its working methods to be better able to monitor the implementation of sustainable development goals at eu level in a holistic manner.
the council, under the estonian presidency, established a dedicated council working party that will deal with the agenda 2030. the mandate of this working party will be to ensure systematic, effective, participatory, transparent and integrated follow-up and review of the implementation of the sustainable development goals at eu level in order to track progress, assess achievements and ensure accountability.
also, in november the council welcomed the first implementation monitoring report on progress towards the sustainable development goals in the eu prepared recently by eurostat.
– mr president, with the signing of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development on 25 september 2015, 193 countries from all regions of the world committed themselves to implementing the 17 sustainable development goals and 169 related targets to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity and peace.
the commission communication on ‘next steps for a sustainable european future’ of november 2016 announced detailed and regular monitoring of the sustainable development goals in an eu context.
eurostat’s monitoring report builds on eurostat’s long experience in monitoring sustainable development in the union.
as a matter of fact, from 2005 until 2015, eurostat regularly monitored progress towards the objectives of the eu sustainable development strategy.
progress for some goals has been faster than for others and within the goals movement away from the sustainable development objectives also occurred in specific areas.
the european union has made significant progress over the last five years towards the overall achievement of the goals concerning affordable and clean energy, responsible consumption and production, life on land, sustainable cities and communities and good health and well—being.
for example, in the case of terrestrial ecosystems, the indicators mostly show good progress, but this should not lead to the conclusion that ecosystems or biodiversity in the union are in good health.
next year, the commission will present a reflection paper ‘towards a sustainable europe by 2030’.
it will be accompanied by a ‘distance to sdgs’ analysis to provide, in addition to the trends, an understanding of the distance we still need to cover in order to achieve the sustainable development goals.
mr president, the sustainable development goals are at the heart of the political debate today.
the same causes produce the same effects, and that is why it is important to have a method for achieving the sustainable development goals now.
member states with significant shortcomings in the achievement of the sustainable development goals should come before the european parliament to report on their policy action in this area.
this is both internal and external, and when it comes to sustainable development, we are all developing countries, including those in the european union.