the issue of data access and liability should be tested in a real-life environment in the field of cooperative, connected and automated mobility.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: if we think about it for a moment, for the last 10 or 15 years, our energy policy has been one of the main goals.
and that has been to fight climate change by reducing co2 emissions.
in fact, the whole of energy policy has been geared towards this objective.
we need to start thinking not just about climate change, but also about the competitiveness of our citizens and businesses and the cost of energy.
and the way that we can simultaneously stick to our climate change goals and reduce costs to consumers, especially our industry, is by implementing a very basic principle that works absolutely everywhere in the economy, competition.
by removing market restrictions, we will give the right signals to create more competition against or between energy producers in the member states.
competition is not possible in a situation where there are still extensive subsidies for both fossil fuels and renewable energy.
so at the same time, we have to look at how we can sensibly reduce market-distorting subsidies for all players, all sectors, fostering competition, keeping, of course, in mind our climate goals, but thinking about how to lower costs for citizens and businesses to boost competitiveness.
at the same time, we need to reduce our co2 emissions.
we know very well that very often these two goals are in conflict with each other, because of course, the more economic activity we have, because somewhere we're burning something more, and that comes down to the climate itself with co2 emissions.
it's a solution that's been developed in the emissions trading system.
we know that there are a lot of political compromises that may or may not be made in the interests of the climate and/or the economy.
so, this goal is, what else could we do, both to make industry grow and to make the climate not bad?
next time i call on the commission, when we find again that the ets system is not doing what we want it to do, to seriously consider a carbon tax as a possible solution.
this is also an agreement about values, about the right of governments to regulate, about maintaining our high standards, about labour rights, about environmental rights, about sustainable development, about reforming the old isds system – because it was not invented in ceta, it has existed since 1959, it was invented in germany.
actually, honourable members of this house, for years many of you have been calling for trade agreements which include sustainable development, human rights, labour rights, environment, climate, animal rights.
honourable members will be involved in the implementation of all this, and we will work with you in order to make sure that we reform and look at how we can become better in the implementation of the sustainable development chapter.
(applause)so, voting in a few minutes on the two agreements we have in front of us will enable us to take a great economic and geopolitical opportunity, deepening economic relations, affirming our social and environmental protection, showing that trade and values can go hand—in—hand, and strengthening a shared partnership.
other possible reasons could be that the commission made legal mistakes when it started infringement proceedings – and if that is not the case, i would like more information about the changes – or that the german government has made enough political statements to remove discrimination against car owners from other countries and drivers of environment-friendly cars?
there was no waste either, just mostly paper and glass.
all of this alone creates a mountain of waste that never existed before.
so, of course, it is right to move toward a more sensible management of our waste, to reuse as much as we can.
we don't want to go back to a time when consumers had no choice, but we still have to think about this huge mountain of imported waste that we have to get rid of.
we have climate goals to reduce co2 emissions, we have environmental goals to ensure good air quality.
this is because it was found that not only is the diesel engine beneficial in terms of co2 emissions, but that, with proper regulation, harmful emissions (which are harmful to the environment, say, to human respiratory tracts, the so-called tails) can also be regulated.
what actually happened is that diesel was developed, but virtually all the car companies that sell diesel engines have been lying to us as legislators, lying to us as consumers for years about how much of their emissions are air pollution or nox emissions.
of course, now there's going to be a new testing methodology that involves not just lab tests, but also the waste as it actually is on the road.
but the lesson here for all of us is that when we're pursuing a goal, in this case a climate goal, we have to be very careful about what the potential impacts are, like the impact on air quality.
on the occasion of the 5th anniversary of the fta, the epp group shares not only the positive impacts of the fta, but also acknowledges that the trade and sustainable development chapter of the agreement does not fully meet expectations in line with eu values in terms of the trade policy.
iceland, liechtenstein and norway are part of our european continent and we share the same space, but also the same principled interest: to make growth in europe more inclusive and sustainable.
these conditions include the strengthening of economic and financial governance, including a thorough, result-oriented investigation into bank fraud, good energy governance, an accountable, transparent and merit-based civil service, the freedom, independence and pluralism of the media, sustainable development and poverty reduction and the political independence of the judiciary.
especially energy, especially electricity.
mr timmerman, i ask you as the commission's representative to pay particular attention in the eighteenth year to the fact that this so-called winter energy package, which would actually promote it through legislation to develop the electricity market, really goes ahead through both parliament and the council so that we can get to a new law in europe that will promote competition in the electricity market, that will bring down prices, that will make our industry more competitive so that we can reach this 20% target.
without a proper industrial policy, we cannot say that our european economy is sustainable.
in europe, our main climate goal is to reduce co2 emissions.
and it's from the waste, the sawdust and the sawdust, that we also get the fuel, which we use to produce heat and electricity.
so renewable energy all over the place.
ladies and gentlemen, we must not destroy the european forestry industry, but instead encourage its sustainable development, which means that every tree that is cut must be replaced immediately.
this is our climate goal to reduce co2 emissions.
and then, unfortunately, it turns out that this same industry has been misleading the public for years about how much waste there really is.
not for the environment, but for our health.
we also insist on including built environment related to the provision of goods and services.
the illegal trade in waste has become a national tragedy.
there are many places where unscrupulous private owners pile up large and sometimes toxic waste directly from switzerland, the netherlands, etc.
this is a very lucrative business which is damaging to our environment but unfortunately our national legislation does not allow it to be stopped and those responsible to be punished.
we should establish dignified conditions of detention, create possibilities for socialisation, encourage rehabilitation and reintegration into society, develop educational facilities for prisoners, and ensure a safer living and working environment for both prisoners and staff.
if those people who are trying so hard to stand by our farmers are so afraid of new zealand, they should rather direct their energy to giving right and just subsidies to such countries as latvia and lithuania, because even inside the european union we still have no justice in agriculture.
they especially concern violations of eu law, in particular in the fields of employment and social affairs, the environment, justice, fundamental rights, the internal market, transport, health, education and culture.
on an election observation mission in the gambia, i saw that for months, the climate was so unusual that fruit was almost unavailable.
climate change is causing famine in a large part of the african continent.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we have a number of challenges in europe in the energy sector itself.
this is problematic both for the climate co2 emissions , and it is problematic for our energy independence, which is that we mainly import these sources.
and thirdly, we have relatively very high energy prices in europe.
this is because we often have limited competition, and we also have very distorting subsidies - both for fossil and renewable resources.
the answer is this european energy union strategy, which is actually now being phased in; as the commissioner says, the laws are moving the process along.
we need to understand that our climate goals to reduce co2 emissions and our competitors' goals to reduce energy prices are not in conflict.
we need to reduce our dependence on imports, we need to remove barriers to trade, and we need to phase out these market-distorting subsidies, which ultimately harm both the investment environment and the achievement of our objectives and, of course, the competitiveness of europe as a whole.
mr president, in some cases security really is an important element for sustainable development.
we are happy that the final text includes a call on the commission to set mandatory requirements on the accessibility of public spaces and especially the built environment.
madam president, security is an important element of stable development, and this proposal is to allow eu budgetary support and strengthen the capacity of military actors in chad, in mali and the central african republic and so on in order to contribute to the achievement of peaceful societies and sustainable development.
we should make sure that, during the next decade, hong kong’s pro-democracy group enjoys full dialogue with the european union and we must particularly appreciate and encourage hong kong’s efforts in combating climate change.