chief among them is minister konrad mizzi who will chair the energy council meetings.
vice-president, i begin by thanking you, first of all, for the commitment you have shown over the last two years to start the european union's transition to clean energy in a serious, ambitious but also realistic way.
the ambition that the european union is showing in the field of energy and climate change is positive for me.
today i believe we have reached the point where we need to focus more than ever on consumers in our member states to be the main participants in this energy and climate transition.
i dream of an energy union where the consumer plays the most important role.
renewable energy sources, such as solar panels, i believe empower consumers to make responsible decisions.
and so from passive consumers they become active producers; they can consume what they produce, or even sell the energy they produce in their homes to the electricity grid, and they can also make a profit.
today, technology exists that can help consumers take control of their energy consumption with the help of smart meters, electronic accounts and even electricity supply contracts with dynamic elements.
it is only with a functioning libyan state that we will ever have a proper chance to agree together on enhanced cooperation to sustainability and safely manage migration flows while defeating terrorism, destroying trafficking networks’ business models and ultimately saving lives.
i come from malta, where our government has the dubious honour of having the only sitting eu minister, and now the eu energy council chair, whose secret financial set-ups were exposed by the panama papers.
this is because, when the use of traditional pesticides is also taken into account, there is concern about the risk to human health, the environment in which we live, the food we eat and even ecological biodiversity.
they can contribute to sustainable farming and give the public peace of mind.
the european economy has so far shown that it is capable of registering economic growth while investing in technology and innovation to reduce pollution; and many european industries have recognised this, but others need the regulatory incentive to take this step effectively.
the european economy must be based on a clean technology-driven industry where the polluter pays for the pollution they cause.
the agreement we reached, by a large majority in the environment committee, reflects agreement on a progressive and balanced solution that can start helping the environment and industry.
we need to ensure a system that helps us address the climate.
since a few months ago he has been insisting on the need to tackle climate change and to ensure that the paris agreement comes into force, today he has the opportunity to implement the tools to do so without undermining the agreement reached.
the agreement struck is a balance between protecting the environment, competitiveness, job creation and playing a key role in the transition to a low-carbon society for important sectors.
the current legal framework on liability may not entirely work for robotics, so we need to consider the impact of different solutions to make sure that harm caused to persons and to our environment will be addressed.
what we are speaking about today is not only the environment or the economy – we are also managing to bridge the gap and bring both of them together.
we need to arrive at a point where the waste of one business becomes the resource of another; where the output of one industry becomes the input of another.
this is the reason why we cannot continue building an economy that uses things up and creates waste.
the need to secure a future of peace, of prosperity, of sustainability, of a better quality of life for our citizens.
sustainable policies addressing deforestation can stimulate economic growth and development.
they can be a win for our climate, for inclusive development, for economic growth, and for small-scale farmers and indigenous people alike.
we require measures that are environmentally sustainable, measures that are socially responsible.
ultimately, it is our responsibility to support sustainable production and provide eu consumers with a choice based on informed decisions.
accepting palm oil from sustainable sourcing is our obligation if we want to address deforestation and prevent extinction of threatened species.
i am of the opinion that parliament should seize this opportunity to address a law which has now left several legal loopholes to the detriment of the environment, to the detriment of european consumers, but also to the detriment of the health of citizens.
the reality is that the volume of vehicles will continue to increase; however, this must not be done at the expense of the environment, because the world we live in is changing at a rapid pace and we need to do much more to keep up.
europe has not succeeded in making cars in europe as clean energy efficient on the roads as they are in the laboratories.
other let me begin by thanking, first of all, the rapporteur, biljana borzan, for the very good work she has done, because food waste is not just a political issue, for me it is a moral issue, because the amount of food being thrown away and wasted is literally outrageous.
there will always be a lot of food that will end up being wasted, but what we are experiencing today is colossal waste.
to produce food we are clearing forests, using water, producing emissions and reaching the ecological limits of our planet.
and finally, each of us can reduce this waste by changing our attitudes.
lack of control, mismanagement, misguided development policies, the race to the bottom and the lack of rules associated globalisation with job losses, social injustice, squeezed living standards, rising inequalities and low environmental, health and privacy standards.
we will not accept the lowering of social, fiscal or environmental standards in the european union, nor will we accept the trading of security over trade issues.
the prima initiative is not only a tool that can help different countries come together, but equally importantly it focuses on very important aspects of our environment, climate change, our food supplies and the serious implications that these can have.
climate change will inevitably lead to people displacement and this in turn can result in the political destabilisation of regions and countries.
unfortunately, for a long time, we had people who considered climate change to be a fictitious thing – this is happening today as well: if you pretend that it is not real, it will literally disappear.
we know today that climate change is affecting every country in every continent.
we had the opportunity to make serious policies with the emissions trading scheme and this is our opportunity now with this regulation.
the climate action legislation sets a clear trajectory to 2030, and a longer-term objective up to 2050, to reduce emissions in important sectors including transport, agriculture, buildings and waste.
this parliament must have a progressive and ambitious stand on these measures, closing loopholes and making sure that member states reduce their emissions; ensuring also that all sectors contribute to a proper reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
if we do not act now, the effects of climate change will become even worse.
until we know for certain that glyphosate is safe for our citizens and the environment, we cannot allow this substance to be freely sold in the eu market.
finally, we want the commission to promote and support the agricultural sector so that our farmers can move towards glyphosate-free agriculture, and towards alternative sustainable and cost-efficient solutions for pest management.
we asked precise questions on behalf of the environment committee to the commission, and we are looking forward to precise detailed answers.
ultimately, people’s right to health and a healthy environment should be our priority at all times.
i am here representing those citizens who are concerned and who want action to be taken, seriously, to tackle climate change - also by the european institutions and also by this house.
it is precisely these people, who are the most vulnerable who are not even contributing to climate change, that solidarity must be with.
– mr president, although we may not realise it, standards are everywhere around us – in healthcare, food, transportation, construction, cosmetics, energy and so many other things.
the standardisation environment is changing and is challenging.
the european standardisation system must be based on an inclusive, holistic and common approach whereby smes, consumer and citizen goals – particularly those related to economic, social and health issues and the environment – are fully integrated into the standardisation process.
the joint initiative, that was broadly welcomed by all of the partners and all of the stakeholders of the standardisation system – if i may just repeat this – is there to create a system that is inclusive, collaborative and a symbol for the companies, a system that taps the potential of it and services, but above all a system that can set priorities in areas such as e-health, smart energy and intelligent transport systems.
so, in particular, i would like to reiterate: it is important to enhance the synergies and coordination between all stakeholders; develop inclusive, sustainable, safe and high-quality standards with fair access and treatment of all stakeholders; improve the accessibility and transparency of the standardisation process; remove the de facto obstacles to an effective involvement of annex iii organisations; create an easy-to-use single point of access to standards; monitor international ict standardisations and promote the european regulatory model and interests at international level; clarify the core elements of an equitable, effective and enforceable licensing methodology based on frand; and prepare a european register listing existing european standards and ongoing standardisation work to avoid duplication of work.
we are at the forefront on certain issues which cut through oceans and forests, such as climate change.
in this context, we must keep on defending the agreement on climate change that was born in paris that was born in europe and spread it from north to south and make sure that it gets implemented.
this is the solidarity that i, there again, expect from the european union but, in particular, from this parliament, because it is not a question of size or the size of the country but it is a question of the power of ideas, it is a question of the energy and the determination of a country and its people who really want to make a difference; to understand people's needs and to push forward those laws that they believe can make a difference in people's lives.
mr president, yes, the biggest challenge for us in the coming years, namely the ability to find a balance between economic growth and sustainability - and so we are asking how are we going to tackle this?
many countries are also being impacted by great natural disasters and with climate change, weather events will continue to worsen for decades to come.
and this is why we need to make sure that the sustainable development goals are implemented and are not merely words on paper.
this is why today and every single day until the goals are achieved, we must take concrete steps to make the world more sustainable.
governments, parliaments, businesses, civil society organisations, the media and citizens need to be all engaged to find efficient sustainable solutions locally, nationally and also globally.
a sound comparison of the overall ambition of the carbon offsetting and reduction scheme for international aviation (corsia) with the eu emissions trading system (ets) is required and this can only be done against definite and agreed criteria.
only through this can we ensure and determine an adequate scope for 2019. it is high time also for the international civil aviation organisation (icao) to prove that it is a proactive stakeholder, that can adopt effective climate measures that can be implemented by the industry and will really make a positive difference.
they provide oxygen, raw materials and energy and they are a crucial element to tackle climate change.
on the one hand they can cool the climate, but at the same time intensive felling and deforestation can have serious negative climate impacts.
i could not help but follow the negative campaign that has been going on before the vote will be taken during this plenary, and i saw also amendments attacking the delicate position that was achieved in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) on this legislation, and i believe that if we end up adopting a future reference level rather than one based on what is well documented and known, we will end up with a system which will not work and will not address our climate change concerns.
the report of the parliament’s environment committee is a step towards a better climate policy.
it aims at a robust and transparent accounting system for forestry emissions rather than one which will have the potential to hide emissions from increased forest cutting.
once again we need a strong parliamentary position on lulucf: one that gives proof of our climate commitment and ensures the capacity of our forests to store carbon.
we have now finally understood not only that we need to act as europeans all together but also that we need to act on what we usually define as the root causes: poverty, climate change, lack of democratic spaces, violations of human rights, opportunities for life.
with our migration compacts we are discussing directly with our partners in africa – governments but also local authorities, civil society organisations, international agencies and ngos that are present on the ground – how to best invest in the sustainable development of these countries, of these communities, because in one single country, you can have areas where support in this respect is not particularly needed but maybe a few tens of kilometres away from there, you have a community that is completely exposed to the trafficking and the smuggling.
so if you want to develop alternative economies, to offer alternatives to the youth of these communities, to stop the criminal organisations and to invest in sustainable, good economies you need also to work on the security side of the territory, otherwise a normal, strong, healthy economy would have more difficulties to take root.
this is also a way of addressing the root causes of the migratory flows as well as is – and i have mentioned this here many times, and i think i have the full support of this hemicycle on this – our constant and determined work on climate change.
so many people leave their communities because of the consequences of climate change, especially in the areas of the desert.
it will mobilise unprecedented levels of private resources in the most fragile areas of africa and our region, with the objective of implementing the sustainable development goals, but at the end of the day the two agendas coincide, because if we had the sustainable development goals fully implemented, there would also be a clear impact on the migratory flows.
working together and facing together common challenges and taking advantage together of common opportunities, and also working together on common issues we have close to our hearts: multilateralism, a certain way of understanding security and peace, climate change and the multilateral agenda.
in this field, we have launched massive investments to create jobs and provide training, but as i said, this is a work that we need to do together with the local communities, together with the local authorities and guaranteeing at the same time support for a better security environment in the region.
attention should, however, be paid to appropriate incentives to encourage projects in fields such as light engineering, electronics and environmental technologies.
once that is fully implemented it will improve national cybersecurity capabilities, enhance cooperation between member states and require operators in important economic sectors such as energy, transport, banking and health, as well as digital service providers, to adopt risk-management measures, and report major incidents to national authorities.
our energy supply, our homes, our banking systems and even our hospitals are all today very much reliant on technology.
for me, the climate change conference in bonn is an important step towards progress on climate change.
let's change our approach to tackling climate change, from the usual top-down-to-bottom-down approach, to a bottom-up-to-bottom-policy approach, where instead of just talking about costs, let's talk about benefits, and there are many benefits.
acting on climate change means for example starting to reduce asthma attacks in children, saving our family members from respiratory diseases, increasing the amount of years we can live ourselves, reducing, yes, our energy bills, improving our quality of life and increasing the number of jobs in our communities.
cop23, i believe, will offer us an opportunity, if we want, to lead the climate discussion in solving problems and identifying opportunities.
there is no benefit for health and the environment in keeping the interim criteria that are currently applicable.
i would like to stress that our proposed criteria are protective of human health and the environment, and are based on the widely agreed world health organisation definition of an endocrine disrupter.
this particular provision was added at the request of some member states, during the negotiations – yes, during the negotiations – to improve their policy on sustainable use of pesticides, and was instrumental in getting the necessary support.
furthermore, this provision is in line with the general objective of the regulation to promote the development and use of active substances that have, overall, more favourable properties in relation to the protection of human health and the environment.
let me also remind the honourable members that, with the adoption of the draft regulation under scrutiny, the european union would become the first regulatory system in the world with legally binding criteria to define what an endocrine disrupter is and to apply those criteria to pesticides, not only with regard to human health but also with regard to the environment.
however, their adoption would be a significant step forward compared to the current situation with respect to better protection of human health and the environment.
we are not in a hurry: our concern, as always, is how to protect human health and the environment.
i strongly believe we owe that better protection to european citizens and the european environment.
therefore, and to conclude, i invite you to seize the opportunity for better protection of human health and the environment from endocrine disrupters in the area of pesticides by not supporting this objection, and by enabling the commission to adopt these protective criteria and move forward.
today’s situation is very dangerous for people’s health and for the environment.
challenges must be addressed by creating a digital environment, by adopting digitally proved consumer laws that can ensure strong and enforceable consumer rights for everyone in the eu.
to her children i would like to say: i'm not gonna let daphne's murder go to waste, and i'm telling her that as my friend, i'm not gonna let her murder go to waste.
if there is not an effort by everyone, and not the european union alone, to address serious issues of political governance, of climate change, of investment even by the private sector, then we will not start to address this problem.
the time for further investments, that can support a proper transition to a low—carbon economy and to low—emission alternatives in transport for the years to come.
citizens are getting increasingly aware of the health impacts of air pollution and our countries have committed themselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.