sustainable management of fish stocks must be the starting point.
the package that came out of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for me, is far from ideal, but it is the best that we could get out of it.
two degrees means that we have only 20 years left of current global emissions.
to those who simply and only want to do their best, please vote wednesday in favour of the total environment committee package without any amendments.
well, we are now discussing the only climate tool we have for european industry.
anyhow, in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety they managed to strike a deal spanning the political groups, from gue to ecr – a broad agreement in the environment committee – and they all said yes to this package, and yes, it has higher ambition, which makes it good for us, but it also has a lot of additional protection for industry.
they halted their innovation because they are dependent on those free allowances and therefore keep to high carbon cement, and they earned windfall profits of eur five billion in the last phase.
i am confident, however, that on this issue i will not need too much of my jenga skills because i do think that, with frederick federley’s opinion in the committee on industry, research and energy, we had a very good opinion which then served as a basis of the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i have a whole list in front of me, of the elements of frederick’s opinion that were then carried over to the environment committee report.
on the border adjustment mechanism, it was never a secret and therefore cannot have come as a surprise that the epp group would prefer the broader and the fairer wording of the committee on industry, research and energy.
we now have someone in america who could easily walk the road of climate scepticism.
but, mr president, what should the european emissions trading system look like after 2020?
well, i am glad that the environment committee has tightened up the proposals of the european commission.
the aviation industry agreed in 2016 to a global emissions trading system that will start on a voluntary basis in 2020 and become mandatory in 2027. here too europe must lead the way, auctioning rights and reducing emissions.
the commission listened to them, but the warnings from environmental organizations about possible fraudulent software hardly penetrated the commission's offices.
the commission will also be responsible for the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment.
that is why i am glad that there is a road map for the euro, which recognises that the euro in its present form is not sustainable and that the euro can do so much better.
we wanted guarantees that high standards would protect the environment, people and consumers, and we got them.
too many great powers would prefer to see globalization and trade without fair standards or fair competition or respect for people and the environment.
our public health is under threat, environmental protection is on the line and our regulatory autonomy is under pressure.
it's also what we've heard from judges, lawyers and advocates, from trade unions, consumer organizations and small and medium-sized business lobbying, from farmers, conservationists and environmental organizations, from ngos, who have done research on cash flows, on transparency and development cooperation.
and poverty, because multinational companies make their products in the cheapest countries, cheap in terms of wages and cheap in terms of environmental and working conditions.
the pvda also wants environmental and trade union organisations to have the right to take legal action to protect labour and environmental standards.
this german toll plan is discriminatory, it is bad for the environment, it is bad for europe.
however, on the environmental side it hardly does anything: it does not even mention the paris agreement.
when we take sectoral approaches, let us ensure that we know it is about economic, social and environmental policies.
what we are doing here is making sure that waste can be used in the circular economy, but we know that we also need to look at how to create a demand for reused and recycled material and at making sure that the design is ready so that we can create a circular economy.
we are about to vote on the revision of the european waste legislation, a historic moment.
we should not be talking about waste legislation, but about recycling legislation.
it is not a question of waste that we must get rid of, but of valuable resources that we must protect.
we need to phase out the landfill of reusable and recyclable waste.
we must also strengthen cooperation with producers and waste processors.
and finally , let's get rid of the bureaucratic barriers to reuse, let's get rid of the lack of ambition and let's get rid of the concept of waste and talk about the use of valuable resources.
it offers unprecedented opportunities, precisely to make countries and citizens stronger, for example by tackling tax evasion and combating climate change.
the certification system for sustainable palm oil has failed.
there is no such thing as sustainable palm oil!
sustainable palm oil is a myth to appease the conscience of consumers, producers and politicians.
now it is time for us to take the next step: looking at palm oil production, knowing that there are cases of human rights violations, that there are cases of environmental destruction.
if we set our standards and make sure that according to these sustainability criteria only the good stuff is used for import into the eu, we will set a global standard.
and that is exactly what we should be doing, for the environment but certainly also for the people earning their money from these products, and that is what we are doing here and it is time we used that power.
conserving the rainforest and global biodiversity is vital to the future of humanity, and that's what we're talking about.
let us therefore support and emulate the sustainability efforts of member states and companies, as in the netherlands.
and by 2020, we'll only be using certified sustainable palm oil.
sustainable palm oil is essential to our food sector, which provides jobs and, of course, is also a very good source of a lot of food production.
the growing discrepancies between laboratory tests and actual emissions have been known for ten to twelve years!
within the european commission, for years there has been a hard-fought battle between the environment departments and the industry department all the way up to the commissioners.
i really expect the european commission to take our conclusions and recommendations seriously and to act on them quickly, for example by placing the responsibility for air quality and legislation such as car emissions in the hands of one commissioner and not making it a debate between two commissioners.
the cooperation between the committee on the environment, the committee on the internal market and the committee on transport is not always as easy as it is when it comes to the interests of the transport sector.
we have discussed earlier this morning the so-called emissions scandal, whereby many politicians, but above all consumers, are disappointed with what the european car industry has done to us in recent years, to use that word just once.
indeed, the imf is right that the required fiscal surplus is too high to be sustainable, and that the debt is unsustainable, undermining collective bargaining.
on the contrary, despite the unfair electoral environment, the intimidation of the no campaigners and the massive control of the media by the government, half of turkey’s population showed that they are ready to push back for the democratic future of their country.
it is true that the european investment bank (eib) in 2015 published a communication on climate change action, but after paris we now know that decarbonisation is the aim.
if we want to achieve zero emissions by half—time this century, then any investment in fossil fuel infrastructure should be considered very, very, very carefully.
especially as regards gas, which has always been promoted as a transitionary energy source, we know that if we take energy efficiency seriously, european gas demand will hardly increase.
everyone agrees that food waste should be prevented as much as possible.
recent research by wageningen university has shown that omitting shelf life data on long-lived products such as rice, pasta and coffee leads to a 12% reduction in waste.
i also strongly support initiatives where government and parties like caterers and supermarkets work together to reduce food waste.
we must therefore be careful about implementing european regulations without binding targets for food waste.
moreover, food waste should be tackled at national level.
i believe that we must also come to enforceable social and environmental standards in the future.
this presents massive opportunities for europe and it is now up to us, the policymakers, to make the right choices and create a conducive environment so that europe can benefit to the full extent.
we need each other before, and we need each other after 2019.
madam president, i would like to focus on climate change and the role of the g7, because i think it cannot be stressed enough how important the g7 has been in history in setting the global climate change agenda.
if we cannot get those conclusions with the united states, will we push for a g6 statement on climate?
the euro would do many things: full employment, sustained growth, a healthy investment climate.
but it's also about sustainability.
in relation to other matters, i agree with most people who recognise that transport is economical, it is environmental and social in terms of all its dimensions.
on the environment side, the co2 emissions from transport are hugely significant in the overall emissions, and the limits that are expected of us now are rising from the paris agreement.
we will for the first time have the tool that is necessary for this: the vecto tool to charge vehicles based on co2 emissions, which would give users the incentives to purchase and use cleaner vehicles.
the trade agreement also leads to water pollution, environmental pollution and increased co2 emissions.
we must take this criticism as an invitation to give top priority to human rights, but also to trade union rights, environmental protection, food security and a fairer distribution of wealth.
instead of working on treaties like tisa, the european union can put its energy much better into the international convention on transnational corporations and human rights.
– mr president, it is now four years since the sustainability compact was launched and we have to face the fact that bangladeshi labour conditions are still quite bad and in some cases, for instance on trade union rights, are even deteriorating.
commissioner šefčovič has already said: president trump's withdrawal from the climate agreement doesn't mean we're not going to continue to be sustainable.
today we read that the united states is withdrawing from the climate agreement.
the climate agreement was the only success the eu had in recent years.
similarly, all regions in europe should continue to be eligible for structural and investment funds beyond 2020. they are putting the european strategy for growth and sustainability into practice.
an opportunity to give interreg more power so that cohesion policy remains the investment policy for cohesion in europe with smart, sustainable and inclusive growth beyond 2020.
i should like to speak today about the waste of cohesion funds, but the current situation has caught up with me.
then there is the olaf, the european anti-fraud office, which detected fraud amounting to eur 631 million in 2015. it is clear that the eu's waste of money is not limited to the cohesion funds.
i have to say that already 10 years ago, when we did the first deal, we warned that a labelling system that goes from a+ to a++++ does not really help consumers understand what is energy efficiency and what is not.
the paris climate conference, ladies and gentlemen, has recognised the importance of the agricultural sector to our food supply.
agriculture is one of the few sectors that can also extract greenhouse gases from the air and convert them into organic matter in the soil.
it is therefore right that captured greenhouse gases should be included in climate targets.
it is now up to the member states to come up with a model where the farmer and the gardener are actually rewarded for the capture of greenhouse gases.
this could be done, for example, by a carbon trading system or by giving more room for manoeuvre.
in addition, dutch agriculture and horticulture are already at the forefront of innovations that lead to an ever-lower greenhouse gas emissions per kilogram of food.
it is estimated that this will reduce the consumption of fertilisers by 15%, and thus also the emission of greenhouse gases.
if you no longer rely on rigged and unpublished research, then you have no reason to continue to expose the environment, humans and animals to glyphosate.
glyphosate has become the symbol of what is wrong with europe: multinationals over the environment and money over health.
madam president, i would like to thank everyone for these heart-breaking speeches on climate change.
it is really great to hear how everyone is involved in it and concerned and, well, let us see, in half an hour you can vote and you will add loopholes to our own climate legislation watering down our targets for 2030. there might be some inconsistency with some of you guys, but i am sure you are going to work on that.
i really hope when the environment council is meeting next week, you still have in your mind the speech by the president of the marshall islands, and act accordingly.
and colleagues, who did not feel proud when we voted today on our commitment to the paris climate agreement, making europe the world leader where others withdraw?
social justice is a precondition for a stable climate for investment and development.
if you look at the scoreboard use, is it really that those projects that score well on sustainability and jobs get the higher scores?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
soil, water, air and climate call for global and european efforts.
but the paris climate agreement also calls for food production not to be jeopardized by climate policy, and that is a fact.
i would therefore like to point out that the agricultural sector is already making a major contribution to sustainable production.
by maintaining the landscape, farmers contribute not only to sustainable food security, but also to the environment and nature.
a lot has been said about sustainable agriculture.
through innovation and increasing environmental awareness, dutch farmers and gardeners are saving co2 and delivering top quality products.
let us beware of shifting our food production to third countries with less environmental legislation.
only a level playing field with effective measures and without unnecessary red tape can stimulate sustainable agriculture.
european and dutch farmers and gardeners have been feeding the world's population for years in a sustainable and resource-efficient way with meat, dairy, cereals, fruit and vegetables.
our european farmers and gardeners are therefore true champions of the global climate, rainforests and biodiversity.
and they want to contribute to the climate agreement and they're working hard on it.
let us also look at the opportunities for the development of the outermost regions, whether it be in the field of renewable energy generation, the enhancement of unique biodiversity, tourism or the blue economy.
as we speak, the results of climate change are hitting the caribbean with unprecedented force.
the central question today is of course: how do we judge the icao decision to tackle the problem of climate change?
is it the strong and decisive step of the aviation sector to freeze its emissions globally at 2020 levels and compensate for all additional emissions, or is it a cunning attempt by the aviation industry to buy more time and to accommodate unlimited growth in the future?
rules on the global trading registry, criteria for offsets and monitoring of emissions still have to be agreed and implemented by participating countries.
– mr president, it feels a bit like groundhog day here, since we are discussing aviation and climate change again and again.
for those who are not aware, back in 2008 the eu promised – with unanimous support from the council – to get aviation to fall within the scope of the emissions trading system (ets) by 2012. this is for those who say that we have to take our time, and to the commissioner who said: ‘well, let’s see how we judge the international civil aviation organisation’s (icao) progress.’ in 2012, we had already said that it would fall within the scope of the ets.
it is carbon-neutral growth, so that is far from being enough for implementation of paris.
in that sense, it is about time for aviation to pay for its emissions like all the other sectors.
we have promised each other that we will reduce emissions whether or not transport is covered by cop21.
almost one fifth of all global greenhouse gases come from it.
by correctly checking the exact amount of emissions released or absorbed by forests, agricultural land and other forms of land use, we know how much emissions budget is left for other types of emissions.
member states can, on the basis of the account, decide themselves what specific measures they want to take on forest and land use, or on other sectors of the economy such as transport and energy.
i’m pretty convinced that climate change, too – i mean just look at the images of the extreme conditions – is going to push people to move.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
such solutions are not sustainable.
by cleaner i mean more transparent, including cartels, and cleaner on emissions and recalls.
we have a lot of relationships with the caribbean, and we also know that the climate is becoming more unpredictable and more erratic.
but fishermen themselves have also made a major contribution to the sustainability and recovery of north sea stocks.
and then we give both the north sea and the tax authorities a good chance for sustainable fishing, and in particular sustainable mixed fisheries.
by 2050, co2 emissions will have been reduced by 95% and overfishing will have been stopped by 2020. but the closer we get to a deadline, the more forward-looking it becomes.
let us use the maximum sustainable yield as an absolute ceiling in setting the quotas.
i therefore call on all members of the european parliament not to allow quotas above the maximum sustainable yield and to adopt conservation measures that apply to all species.
she has been committed to a sustainable north sea plan and i hope that we can count on her and her group when we vote tomorrow.
they're doing a lot less to protect the ecosystem.
it may come as a surprise to some, but a fish that's been killed and landed is missing from the ecosystem, whether you count it or not.
but it also means how crucially important it is that we do our work on both the emission trading system, on the effort sharing, and on the energy package.
it is wonderful news that our economy is growing again, really good news, but at the same time we see that even in our member states co2 emissions are growing again.
mr president, it is great that we are again talking here about climate action, and i want to stress that word ‘action’, because the commission also said that europe wants to be the leader in climate action, did it not?
only then will we be the leading continent on climate action which we claim to be.
this is about our future economy, and i say this to our nationalist friends on the right who are always very proud of what we can achieve as a country but then suddenly when it is about climate action, suddenly they say we are little, we are small, it does not matter what we do.
if we do not take the lead, we will suffer from climate change and will have to import the technologies from all those regions that you so much fear.
i always like to start these debates by saying that it's still entirely a question of whether humans have anything to do with that climate change.
whether man is influencing it or not, al gore does think that man is influencing the climate.
and what he also has a lot of influence over is his own financial climate.
what i also know for sure is that the energy bill of dutch households has increased by 200 euros in the last four years.
the paris agreement requires: all sectors together to save the global climate.
i therefore ask the commission and the member states in particular to finally recognise and financially support the climate efforts of family farms and family farms in european agriculture.
i would remind you that the paris agreement requires countries to adapt to the negative effects of climate change in a way that does not jeopardize food production.
farmers and gardeners in member states like the netherlands are already working hard to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and to produce our daily bread in a climate-friendly way with investment.
the european union must therefore quickly put in place action plans for financing climate-efficient agriculture, as parliament also called for in the esf report, the gerbrandy report.
the european union, which will be taking part in bonn, must, in view of the global climate and the precious rainforest, prevent carbon and investment leakage from european agricultural production to third countries in all climate measures!
our farmers and gardeners produce sustainable food for the world's population.
we need to nurture our european farmers and gardeners, help them make the transition, give them more confidence and ultimately offer clarity on the climate transition.
the commission has a legal duty to protect man, animals and the environment from endocrine disrupting substances.
dear commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, modern agriculture is able to offer solutions to climate change, a better environment and more biodiversity through ecological and technological innovations.
in comparison, we import 6 million tons of phosphate fertilizer annually, while we could recover 2 million tons of phosphate from organic sources, such as manure and waste streams.
this reduces the environmental impact and greenhouse gas emissions.
that is a major risk to our environment and food safety that we cannot allow.
i do not want farmers to be labelled environmental criminals in a few years' time because cadmium is found in the soil, or worse, in our food.
mr president, we are voting tomorrow on essential european legislation in the field of the environment and the internal market.
high-quality mineral concentrate and other organic fertilising products based on animal manure should be able to be used throughout europe if they have the same efficacy and environmental properties as mineral fertilisers.
to boost jobs, growth and investment, we will pursue work to deliver on the circular economy action plan and to complete the digital single market, the energy union, the capital markets union and the banking union.
we need a budget that helps us to meet citizens’ expectations of an eu that delivers on the things that matter most and that contributes to the long-term sustainability of the union.
we will adopt a reflection paper on a sustainable european future and a communication on the future of eu energy and climate policy and propose an extension of the tasks of the european public prosecutor’s office to also tackle terrorism.
we will be judged collectively on the answers we have delivered and how we have responded to the big challenges like climate change, globalisation, the security of our citizens, migration, jobs and growth, on which europeans expect effective european solutions.
climate is another subject that makes your glasses crackle when you read it.
we can reduce global warming by a few thousandths of a degree by cutting carbon emissions by half.
we have to talk about how we put into practice what we preach, and provide a free and safe working environment for the people who work for us and for all europeans.
firstly, an issue that is not at the core of our discussion: sustainability.
we added sustainability by including characteristics of houses and cars.
first of all: for the first time -- and i'm a little shocked by that -- you hear that there's a mixed form between climate change and what's being done by citizens.
crew members will be able to exercise their profession in a cross-border environment more easily because union certificates of qualifications will be recognised on all inland waterways throughout the union.
the sector will be strengthened through innovation and the emergence of a healthy and dynamic business environment.
i therefore also welcome the fact that the eu will be the first international protagonist to take into account labour and environmental standards when looking at systematic trade distortions.
i am also glad that trade partners will soon be required to comply with labour and environmental standards.
land owners should also be able to receive market-based compensation for green and blue ecosystem services for nature, landscape and water.
the emissions part of this package in particular has received a lot of attention in the european press and would not be ambitious enough.
we will have to make up for this in the coming months and next year with the aim of reducing emissions.
i just think that the ambitions should be a little bit more firm when it comes to reducing emissions.
the future of our planet is at stake, because the climate is changing.
we need to reduce transport emissions, while the demand for transport and mobility is only increasing.
so the challenge is very, very big to make our mobility sustainable.
however, transport is not sustainable simply by publishing new proposals on paper.
transport becomes sustainable through rapid decision-making on these proposals and good implementation in practice.
climate change is not going to wait until we in this parliament, perhaps months from now, agree on which parliamentary committee is going to be dealing with what.
so let us not waste time in slandering each other, because our public health, our climate, our mobility issue and also our industry demand action now.
the european union has strong environmental legislation, based on the precautionary principle.
unfortunately, one member state is playing around with environmental legislation and the other member state is unnecessarily strict on certain issues, while the same member state is playing around with other environmental legislation.
article 12 of the waste directive requires member states to ensure that such discharges (waste disposal operations) do not endanger human health and do not pose a risk to soil and water.
it is therefore high time that the european commission intervened proactively in the netherlands, with all the legal means at its disposal, in the interests of our inhabitants, our environment and certainly also the farmers who are doing a great deal of good work there.
but i would like to work with new zealand in a way that is really in the service of sustainability, climate and workers' rights.
so that means more trade, more transportation, more fuel costs and more emissions.
that's not good for the climate.
the bonn climate conference teaches us that we are not even close to the targets we set ourselves in paris.
the price of the energy union is high, but only for the citizen.
on the one hand, its political influence is being eroded as the choice of energy sources is being given to the european union, which is also contrary to article 194 of the treaty.
on the other hand, he also pays a higher price for energy than he would in a truly free energy market.
where the commission speaks of 'correct price signals in the energy market', the dutch citizen sees what public intervention in energy means in practice.
in the netherlands, the energy tax is increased from eur 800 to eur 1000 per year per household.
where, mr president, is the so-called cheap or cheaper renewable energy?
the energy union is not about making wise choices, about independence or about prosperity, but about centralization of power.
so my question is: are you prepared to impose on investors obligations arising from un conventions, ilo standards and the paris climate agreement, for example?
these concerns can only be removed if not only businesses but also citizens, trade unions and environmental organisations can rely on fair trade practices.
we are talking today about the sustainable management of the external fishing fleet.
but the word sustainable is not really in the title.
the new rules are hardly sustainable for the european fishing fleet, but they are a very good step in the right direction.
the regulation on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets is a good example of this.
last month, once again in montreal, icao showed how important it is that we have at least one instrument to keep pressure on the icao process when the icao council decided to take over only two of the 12 sustainability criteria for biofuels that their own environment committee had proposed.
it’s a very, very weak outcome of the sustainability criteria for biofuels and the same might happen with the offsetting criteria that are being set by icao.
in the end it’s the only way to limit co2 emissions from the aviation sector.
only through electronic or hydrogen aeroplanes can we fight this fight against climate change through aviation.
first of all, i would like to stress to the commission, which sometimes gets cold feet when making new proposals, for example on maritime and on shipping emissions, that if there is one thing that is very clear from this experience, it is that if the eu did not take a step in 2008, icao would never have come to the deal that they have on the table now.
we know that icao has now delivered on their principle, but many countries still said that they do not agree with the target of a neutral greenhouse gas growth path after 2020. we do not yet know how many countries will really fulfil that target.
digitisation and universal and affordable access to the internet are also key to achieving the sustainable development goals.
on the scoreboard, that it is really going to help in prioritising what efsi is going to promote, and not just a kind of well-being there that does not really help in prioritising transparency, how our decision is being taken, or the earmarking of climate action to make sure that efsi 2.0 is more going in the direction of real climate action.
whether it is the construction of wind farms in the arctic, the construction of a water storage system in portugal or the construction of 13 000 energy-efficient homes in france, it is still a very expensive eu campaign and propaganda which costs citizens a lot of money.
finally, ms may has promised to create a hostile environment and she has succeeded wonderfully well.
over 5 000 europeans have been deported from the uk this year; the uk government has a responsibility to create a welcoming and safe climate for people who have contributed to british society for many years.
the member states, and the council in particular, must ensure that we are at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
the first important message is that the transport sector should be close to zero emissions by mid—century, which means that the commission white paper, looking at the future of transport, needs to be updated, and parliament is also clearly asking for that.
what the car and the future of cars mean for co2 emissions and for a mandate on zero-emission vehicles will of course be discussed.
i want thank my shadow rapporteurs for their great work on it – i can see them all in this room – and i would also would like to thank mr zoffoli from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), who also actively contributed to the report with contributions from the envi committee, bringing together a strong report.
if we don't do something, our mobility will become the largest source of greenhouse gases after 2030. so it is time for action, because we need to reduce emissions in europe.
so i, as a liberal, am all for using price incentives to get to sustainability.
because, in conclusion, if we want to combat climate change, if we want to create a healthier environment, we need to not only think differently about mobility, but we need to act differently.
secondly, freight transport must also be transformed into a cleaner and better, less polluting and more sustainable transport, and this means that there is room for innovation.
i think, in the end, we have to clean up our air, we have to lower emissions and it is possible.