thirdly, i would also like to see more intensive implementation of the valletta plan, including the acceleration of legislative work to promote sustainable development in the countries of origin of migration.
it is crucial that the union is actively involved in enhancing the sense of security and building security, especially in today's global political climate.
some have also made the more general point that, if the ftt is not implemented on a wide scale globally, the threat to national revenues, markets and the investment environment may outweigh any benefits.
efficiency and sustainability of freight transport logistics is essential for the proper functioning of many other services and activities in our economy, from the production of goods to their delivery, or even the recycling of materials.
road transport is now by far the dominant mode of transport, which is increasing congestion and damaging the environment.
the european parliament has for some time been calling for a review of possible tools for the development of a data-driven economy and has identified the types of necessary framework in the area of regulatory and non-regulatory needs that would be a key element in shaping a better environment for growth in this area.
– mr president, once again i would like to thank you for the invitation and for the opportunity to present to you the second state of the energy union report, only a few hours after it was adopted this morning by the college.
it reflects the importance i see in working very closely with you, the european parliament, in co-piloting the energy union.
this is the objective i presented last week in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), in line with the december declaration of our three institutions.
it would also send an important message to eu citizens that, when it comes to the energy union, we mean business.
to the greatest extent possible, the commission will already start the implementation of the energy union on the ground.
this is one of the key messages of the second state of the energy union: while 2016 was a ‘year of delivery’, 2017 will be a ‘year of implementation’.
it means that, apart from the upcoming legislation on the low-emission mobility, we have delivered on all energy union proposals, and we are now ready for the next phase.
the second state of the energy union serves exactly for that next phase.
for instance, among major global economies, europe is one of the most greenhouse gas efficient.
the state of the energy union report therefore also looks forward and identifies the work that still has to be done; it sets the political priorities for this year.
in line with the energy union strategy, these priorities go far beyond energy and climate alone.
the energy union is about accelerating the modernisation of our entire economy: making it low-carbon; making it efficient in the use of energy and resources; making sure our economy is socially fair and consumer-oriented; and strengthening the energy union’s external dimension.
this is true in the field of climate action but also for safeguarding our competitiveness, jobs and economic interests.
such an over-arching approach implies strengthening the ties between the energy union project and other european flagship policies, such as the circular economy, the digital single market, the security union, our skills agenda, the eu’s economy and climate diplomacy, our investment policies, and so on.
simply put, when we look at the modernisation of our economy, we will also need to look at: the huge job potential of the green economy; the heavy economic costs of air pollution; the threats of cyber-attacks, and many other areas.
with the state of the energy union, i am also launching a second energy union tour.
even in the event that you cannot join me in person, i encourage you to help me bring the message of the energy union to your electorates.
help me convey the urgency of the energy transition, and the opportunities it brings to our citizens.
as i have mentioned earlier, we intend to make 2017 the energy union’s ‘year of implementation’.
i will therefore use this tour to campaign and push for the swift implementation of the energy union not only at national level, but also at local level, which is becoming increasingly important.
i will discuss, with government representatives, the importance of presenting their national energy and climate plans.
showing concrete progress on the ground will help our citizens to visualise and grasp the multiple benefits of the clean energy transition.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would just like to remind you that clean energy is of course very important, one of the most important objectives of the energy union, but there is also the other objective that we should not lose sight of, namely energy security.
this is a much more basic goal for some people, so often it's like, you know, you want to have energy first, and then you wonder if it's clean energy and if it's energy that you can afford.
the basis of energy security (as my colleague has already said) is diversification of supply.
however, if we look at the statistics, we see that the situation is not improving, because statistics show that the union's dependence on imported energy resources increased from 52% in 2010 to almost 56% in 2015 and it seems, as forecasts indicate, that it will increase to 60%, so with such a high dependence on external energy resources, diversification is of paramount importance for europe's energy security and should be the cornerstone of the energy union.
on the other hand, the projects to bring capacity from the east, such as nordstream2 or the opal pipeline decision, are in clear contradiction with the principles of energy security and are completely incomprehensible to many europeans, and undermine confidence in the european commission.
it's the same with energy.
rich countries can have their imaginations and fight for the environment, and poor countries have to be allowed to do as they please.
when they get rich, they can fight for the environment.
in a moment, america will be shooting ahead, and we will also be a pariah compared to the united states, which is ending its fight against global warming.
the energy union is becoming a reality, although we still have to implement it, and above all we need to have constant contact with the citizens so that they feel how important it is to them, because not everyone gets it.
this is really an energy union, a union of citizens who can feel safe and have cheaper energy at the same time.
i would like to ask the commissioner what impact the recent statements by the president of the united states will have on our energy policy and on the energy union.
for example, we agreed that member states would not have binding targets for energy savings or renewable energy sources is anything changing in this respect?
we also have proposals from the energy union to reduce emissions from electricity production, and that's for fossil fuels.
the united states is going in a very different direction, and these restrictions may eliminate some fuels and make energy more expensive.
mr president, solidarity, as provided for in the lisbon treaty, should be a founding principle of the energy union.
the construction of nord stream 2 and decisions about the opal pipeline undermine this principle, making the countries of my region, in particular ukraine, less resilient to russian energy blackmail.
both projects also increase the european union’s dependence on one source of energy supplies.
the energy union is about building a competitive single energy market and achieving europe's climate goal.
energy efficiency is the key tool to achieve these objectives.
converting energy from gas to electricity is at least 20% more efficient than coal, while co2 emissions are only 40% of those generated by burning it.
an additional physicochemical aspect is the high flexibility of electricity generation, which is perfectly compatible with wind energy.
this will increase energy efficiency in the eu by 30% and more.
the implementation of the energy union, in particular the provision of energy security to member states, is one of the major challenges facing the ec.
energy security should be the overriding principle guiding the commission when developing new legislation.
however, the recently published 'clean energy for every european' shows that it is going in the opposite direction.
power mechanisms are crucial for the energy security of member states facing energy shortages.
this provision is potentially contrary to the eu treaties, which provide that a member state has the right to 'determine the conditions for the use of its energy resources, the choice between different energy sources and the general structure of its energy supply' (article 194 tfeu).
the commission's proposal on emission is an attempt to circumvent this principle and put pressure on individual countries to choose energy sources.
the commission's preference for environmental protection over member states' energy security is a further source of concern.
there is no doubt that the main priority of the energy union must be to strengthen the european union's energy security in a spirit of solidarity and trust.
in order to make the community more resilient to external energy crises and to reduce its dependence on specific fuels, suppliers and supply routes, it is necessary to take a number of measures to diversify energy supplies by sources, suppliers and routes.
the nord stream 2 project, on the other hand, not only hinders the realisation of the energy union, but also undermines the solidarity and mutual trust of the member states.
the european commission's attitude is also incomprehensible, as it rightly stresses in all eu strategy papers the need to significantly diversify energy sources and supply routes, while at the same time accepting investment projects that make member states, especially in central and eastern europe, even more dependent on russian gas.
the gas pipeline linking russia and germany under the baltic sea is an investment that is incompatible with the interests of the community, the foundations of the energy union and the provisions of the european energy security strategy.
the next item is the report drawn up by ms linnea engström on behalf of the committee on fisheries on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1006/2008 (com (2015) 0636 - c8-0393/2015 - 2015/0289 (cod)) (a8-0377/2016).
the new regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets provided an excellent opportunity to introduce clear, equal and fair rules for the functioning of the union's fishing fleet and that of third countries.
mr president, while seeking the sustainable exploitation of the seas, we should not forget about increasing the effectiveness of the current system.
in doing so, we will only hurt the sector and will also hurt the environment because we are the most important and most responsible operators on the seas all over the world.
it will contribute to the sustainable exploitation of global fisheries resources.
we understand that this is an important issue for a number of members, and our proposal addresses direct authorisations with the objective of ensuring sustainability.
this may eventually lead to our reviewing dormant agreements in the context of the negotiation of sustainable fishing partnership agreements.
i am convinced that the decision on visa liberalisation will yield even more energy and enthusiasm to deliver on those new challenges.
the answer was simple and clear to all: the goal is to create a good, friendly, loving environment for the proper development of the child.
let me repeat that the parliament and the commission are united in supporting the broad aim of facilitating the wider use of biological low—risk, plant protection products, whilst ensuring that we maintain our high level of safety, because the european union is very proud of the very strict regulatory environment and the very high food safety standards.
at the heart of our report was a reference to the united nations sustainable development goals and a renewed commitment to eradicating poverty and combating discrimination and inequality through the development policies of the union and its member states.
it should be the main element of the union's strategy to achieve the sustainable development goals.
for this reason, the new consensus should also include a commitment for member states to achieve a target of 0,7% of gross national income by 2030. good governance has a special role to play in sustainable development and the economic, social and environmental balance should be strengthened by supporting national sustainable development strategies and good governance mechanisms and processes, including the involvement of civil society.
as regards the link between development and security, it should be stressed that development assistance instruments may be used for security policy purposes, but only in relation to the objective of poverty eradication and the promotion of sustainable development.
– mr president, the european union was instrumental in shaping the global 2030 agenda, which is fully consistent with europe’s vision and has now become the world’s blueprint for global sustainable development.
it is important that we fully take account of the sustainable development goals in the european internal and external policy framework and current commission priorities.
therefore, the consensus is to be taken and defined together with our internal actions on a sustainable european future and our internal policies implementation, aimed at reaching sustainable development goals at home.
at the same time, this resolution sends an important political message – that the european parliament is actively engaged in shaping the future of the european union’s development policy and is committed to eradicating poverty and achieving sustainable development by 2030 worldwide, ensuring that no one is left behind.
the revised framework for the union's external cooperation in the form of the global agenda 2030 strategy and other agreements such as the paris agreement on climate change, the addis ababa plan on financing for development and the busan agreement on the effectiveness of development aid are important drivers of this change.
unfortunately, it creates a negative investment climate in europe, because operators do not know what the price of the allowances will be and how they will be protected against competition from third countries.
moreover, the proposed eu ets will increase emissions leakage and thus job losses in the union, as well as worsening the living conditions of people in poorer countries.
first of all, by the restrictive increase in emission reduction rates, the artificial raising of the price of allowances, the manipulation of the market stability reserve and the incomprehensible attack on the cement sector, or the attempt to limit the compensatory mechanisms that the council has provided for the energy sector in the poorer member states.
it will not only determine whether we meet our climate targets, but also whether the european economy can defend itself, especially now that some of the world's biggest emitters are pulling out of the paris commitments.
i repeat, if we really want to win the fight against climate change, we need the economic strength of europe to protect the climate, so let's take care of the economic strength of europe.
why is it not about energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy?
the unequal treatment of private companies and state-owned or state-funded companies, the existence of natural monopolies, for example in the utilities sector, sensitive sectors - particularly energy, transport, telecommunications, public procurement, financial services - and international trade.
ownership is a mainstay of the programme’s success and should therefore be strengthened, especially in the fields of privatisation and energy.
our structural reform support service has furthermore provided technical support in the design and implementation of many of these reforms, for example, in the areas of public administration, renewable energy, privatisation, revenue administration, bank governance and others.
by keeping the programme on track, we will help to build on the current economic recovery in greece, allowing it to return to sustainable growth and job creation.
in these uncertain and challenging times we need to coordinate our policies and come together to promote sustainable and inclusive growth in europe.
in addition to the european fund for strategic investments, we also need to work together to create a favourable investment environment by also addressing investment barriers and helping small and medium-sized enterprises to access the funds they need.
in addition, we need to come together to support growth in smart fiscal policies, while paying close attention to the long-term sustainability of our budgets and debts.
during the presidency we plan to make progress on the digital single market and the internal energy market, both of which will bring tangible benefits to our economies, our businesses and, above all, our citizens.
in short, and to conclude my speech here, we will not succeed in strengthening the socioeconomic climate for a better europe if we do not work together and this is the guiding principle chosen by the maltese presidency for the next ministerial debates on the european semester.
sustainable public finances and remaining alert to the emergence of imbalances in the private sector are the foundation on which to build a sustainable growth.
this calls clearly for more structural reforms aimed at improving the business climate and increasing the confidence of investors and consumers, and these are mostly tasks for individual member states.
lower prices, higher quality, the safety of citizens, the protection of democracy, the protection of human and labour rights, and the protection of the environment and climate that is ceta.
today we are also voting on the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement, which complements ceta by strengthening bilateral cooperation in areas such as foreign and security policy, counter-terrorism, the fight against organised crime, sustainable development, research and culture.
ceta may limit the rights of states to renationalize or regulate public services and may endanger the environment by facilitating the import of fuels from canadian tar sands.
i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize clearly why i considered it appropriate to vote against amendments nos 12 and 84 in the report adopted by the committee on the environment on the reform of the ets.
the environment committee's proposals would lead to a drastic increase in production costs, a decrease in investment, legal and operational irregularities, a reduction in the competitiveness of the sector and, consequently, a decrease in employment.
because it is incompatible with the treaty provisions which give member states the right to shape their energy basket.
because through these regulations, you will lead to deepening energy poverty, to emissions leakage, and thus to an increase in unemployment in the european union, and especially in my country, in my homeland, in poland.
the point is to produce energy as cheaply as possible, because that's what benefits the consumer, that's what creates jobs, because when people spend less on energy, they have more money to buy something else, and that creates jobs.
plants need emissions, they need carbon dioxide, they need heat.
plants grow from carbon dioxide, they grow from heat.
plants need heat and carbon dioxide.
if you don't want carbon dioxide, you kill the plants.
i voted for the introduction of low-risk biopesticides, which means the restriction of chemical pesticides, which are part of the xenoestrogens, which are not only responsible for many diseases, especially cancer, but also cause serious pollution of the environment, air, water and soil.
– mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues, shadow rapporteurs from the committee on industry, research and energy, because i was a shadow there and rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, for the great cooperation which has resulted in us getting this report into a positive shape.
mr president, on energy union and nord stream ii, i expect that, instead of meeting gazprom envoys, the commission will ensure eu jurisdiction over the project, publish analyses requested by the council, including from dg energy, and supports ukraine and other cee countries politically.
by doing this, the commission will bring credibility and solidarity back to the concept of energy union.
the overarching objective of the energy union is to ensure energy security for its members, which depends to a large extent on diversification of supply.
the compatibility of intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy with union law is one of the conditions for the proper functioning of the internal energy market, the enhancement of security of supply and diversification.
however, as we all know, the commission has not yet had an effective tool to prevent contracts being concluded which are not in line with eu law and the objectives of the energy union.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the implementation of the union's energy policy, in particular by examining the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the implementation of the union's energy policy.
since then, we have been working intensively within the committee on industry, energy and research to establish verification mechanisms for these agreements.
i am convinced that the draft decision we are about to adopt tomorrow can provide citizens and countries with greater energy security.
it will also be the first legislative act to implement the 28 member states' common energy strategy.
until now, we have only had to deal with ex ante verification and only in the light of existing eu rules; now energy security, broadly defined, is also becoming an additional verification criterion.
this is the beginning of the energy union legislation, the first legislation, but remember: the biggest difficulties are usually with implementing what we have already passed.
it is not just the further energy union solutions that are already on the table and that we are working on and will be working hard on in the itre committee that matter, but perhaps even more importantly, it is that we are talking today about how we are going to implement and how we are going to enforce them.
recent experience with the tensions surrounding the nord stream 2 investment shows that implementation and enforcement in the european union and within the energy union will be paramount.
the energy union is one of the ten priorities of the juncker commission.
let me stress in this respect that reaching an agreement on one of the proposals of the security of gas supply package adopted in february last year is an important step towards the realisation of the energy union.
let us keep this positive spirit for the forthcoming negotiations on the clean energy for all europeans package that is now on the table of the european parliament and the council.
this is indeed my first legislative report in the itre committee; before that i was the author of two own-initiative reports, which obviously do not have the same legal weight as this report, which is indeed an important step towards the realisation of the energy union.
the establishment of an information exchange mechanism for intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments in the field of energy is a very important step forward towards a stronger and more united european energy union.
however, i believe that ex ante analysis should cover not only intergovernmental agreements but also non-binding instruments which, despite their non-binding nature, are also used for such important purposes as establishing a framework for energy infrastructure or energy supply, thus affecting the energy market in a way similar to intergovernmental agreements.
as you rightly state, health technology assessments help member states to ensure the sustainability of their health care systems, encouraging pharmaceutical companies to develop products with clear therapeutic value-added benefits for patients.
i am encouraged by the fact that we all share a common vision, namely maintaining a favourable environment for real innovation in the eu, while ensuring that all european patients have timely access to truly innovative and affordable medicines of good quality and safety.
second, our cross-sectoral projects, such as creative hubs, are testing how best to promote innovation and ensure a structuring effect to support industry adaptations to an evolving ecosystem.
i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to amend the mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements with third countries in the field of energy.
this threatens to undo decades of hard-won environmental achievements.
illicit trade not only harms biodiversity but also has a negative impact on development and the rule of law due to its close links to corruption, which contributes to destabilising security in some of the countries at risk.
it is indisputable that mercury poses a threat to human life and health and to the environment.
i therefore fully support the updating of eu legislation, which is in line with the work of the international community and aims to limit the use and release of mercury into the environment, as emphasised by the un programme and the minamata convention.
the idea of a circular economy is a very good idea, it has many benefits not only environmental and economic, but also social.
for example, as regards municipal waste, poland recycled 20% in 2012, germany 64%, austria 59% and the overall target is set at 65%, so poland would have to increase its recycling by 225%, compared to the current level of recycling, by 2030. it's an unrealistic goal.
we want economic growth, but we also want a clean environment.
we also want to ensure the future of the next generation through sustainable development.
the directives we are voting on today set very ambitious targets, including recycling, and will have a significant impact on the management of waste in europe and in the individual member states, presenting a challenge to local governments on the one hand and an opportunity for economic development on the other, also in areas where significant economic incentives have been lacking.
an economy that is resource-efficient and environmentally friendly is not just about recycling, but also about low waste generation.
i thank the rapporteur for putting this prevention, the highest level in the waste hierarchy, at the forefront.
i regret that the promotion of the economies of the countries which produce the least waste per capita, as i have called for, has not been implemented.
i would like to emphasize the introduction of my proposal to treat organic waste not only as compost, but also in the process of gasification, in the anaerobic process with biogas recovery.
i think it's a good idea, and so is saving food and producing less waste.
who will bear the social and environmental costs of dismantling and reusing them?
electronic waste has not seen the green and energy-efficient processing technologies that are effective, and energy efficiency is, in my view, the engine of the circular economy.
the european union's objective, resulting from the implementation of the circular economy, is to reduce waste and to improve the efficiency and quality of recycling.
to achieve these aims, both efficient waste management and a more rigorous approach to production processes are necessary, avoiding toxic substances that impede the reuse and recycling of these products.
therefore, circular economy principles should treat all the steps leading to the final product and its use in a manner that minimises its impact on the environment equally.
however, it is also necessary to take into account the current state of play of member states in terms of waste recovery.
this document does not note that member states are at different levels of waste treatment.
and so i would like to tell you that the target you voted for 70% of municipal waste recycled is very easy to achieve for germany, which according to 2016 data recovered 64% of municipal waste, or for austria, which reached 59%.
there are some clever ideas on how to better link the issue of the ets, carbon allowances and payments for them, or other european policies, to the revenue sector of the european budget.
but the worry is even bigger right now because of the combination of extremism and instability with climate change and population growth.
it is a very good result, and also a very large majority in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre).
because if on strategic issues - such as energy policy, climate policy, immigration policy, and also personnel matters - we do not go back to what has been, what has guaranteed the success of european structures for years, to acting on the basis of consensus, and we vote for each other by a temporary majority, a temporary minority, then i think we will not succeed as a union.
the global market-based trade in raw materials can provide a vital source of a stable income to the people and countries who need it the most, but that development needs to be sustainable.
in short, this means doing what trade does best – not contributing to war and instability but delivering sustainable jobs and real opportunities.
the next item is the own-initiative report of mr urmas paet, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, and mrs sirpa pietikäinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on an integrated european union policy for the arctic (2016/2228 (ini)) (a8-0032/2017).
madam president, the eu framework for the collection and management of fisheries data has been in place since the year 2000. under this framework, the member states collect, manage and make available a wide range of biological, environmental, technical and social economic data on fishing, aquaculture and processing sectors needed for scientific advice.
the improvement in data collection will enable the maximum sustainable yield to be evaluated more reliably and ensure long-term sustainability, as laid down in the basic regulation.
the regulation will also update and simplify the current rules on data collection to take into account the new cfp reform, achieving maximum sustainable yield and lending obligation.
i agree totally that we need to have a more sustainable agriculture, but we cannot say that we have to scrap all agriculture.
i think that traceability and informing consumers about the sustainable production of products also helps a great deal as consumers can take on – and i think consumers should take on – their environmental responsibilities as well.
we need to work on sustainable production, but we also need to work on sustainable consumption, including biofuels.
the commission has already proposed revising the renewal energy directive to gradually reduce the share of food-based biofuels after 2020. already this directive does not allow biofuels to count towards renewable energy targets if they come from land that has been deforested since 2008. i think the final speaker or the speaker before last also mentioned that palm oil in baby food is toxic and harmful.
this is very important, especially for the baltic sea, which is a fragile ecosystem where industrial fishing is destroying fish stocks, mainly cod.
the emissions cheating scandal is an example of fraud stemming from obvious flaws in the european passenger car approval system.
we voted in favour of a report which attempts to deal with the problem which has been described as the ecological disaster of the 21st century, causing poisoning and disease in people in indonesia, borneo, sumatra and the surrounding areas, destruction of animals by deforestation and the burning of tropical forests for the cultivation of palm oil, which is unfortunately used as the cheapest, if not the best, version of vegetable oil used for oil production, in the timber, food and cosmetics industries.
this will lead to environmental pollution, and indirectly we are involved in this, because 46% of palm oil is imported into the european union.
despite attempts to regulate, corporate greed is driving the use of uncertified palm oil, which, in addition to its negative health effects, is also contributing to carbon dioxide and climate change.
we're talking about a subject that is multi-dimensional: it's about economics, it's about social issues, it's about energy and it's about health, but the most moving part is the ecological aspect.
agreement on an overall package that also provides certainty on the primary surplus path and greek debt sustainability among all partners should be reached swiftly in view of friday’s eurogroup.
a sustainable recovery, and economic and financial stability, are not only in the interests of greece and its citizens, but in the interests of us all, and the european union as a whole.
the next item is the joint debate on: recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the position of the council adopted at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices, amending directive 2001/83/ec, regulation (ec) no 178/2002 and regulation (ec) no 1223/2009 and repealing council directives 90/385/eec and 93/42/eec (10728/4/2016 - c8-0104/2017 - 2012/0266 ((cod)) (rapporteur: glenis willmott) (a8-0068/2017) and followed by recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the position of the council adopted at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices, amending directive 2001/83/ec, regulation (ec) no 178/2002 and regulation (ec) no 1223/2009 and repealing council directives 90/385/eec and 93/42/eec (10728/44/2016 - c8-0104/2017 - 2012/0266 ((cod)) (rapporteur: glenis willmott) (a8-0068/2017) and followed by recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the position of the council adopted at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of a regulation of the council regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices, amending regulation (ec) amending directive 2001/83/ec, regulation (ec) and regulation (ec) and regulation (ec) amending directive 2001/88/ec, regulation (ec) and regulation (ec) and regulation (ec) and regulation (ec) and regulation (ec
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs willmott.
the next item on the agenda, following the fire alarm, is the continuation of the debate on the report drawn up by miapetra kumpula-natri on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 531/2012 as regards rules on wholesale roaming markets (com (2016) 0399 c8-0219/2016 2016/0185 cod)) (a8=0372/2016)
to quote your first words, i think it was not your words that triggered the alarm, because even today, there were much heavier words and the fire alarm was silent.
in the words of the rapporteur, ukraine has achieved all the benchmark criteria set out by the eu and has even gone beyond expectations in terms of sustainable reforms.
given the commitment of ukraine to pursue in the way of the reforms undertaken and the consolidation and sustainability of its compromises, the rapporteur calls on us to confirm today the principle that the european parliament so heatedly defends: that every country that meets the criteria set out by the european commission should benefit of the visa waiver for its citizens.
the reforms in ukraine are difficult, but what has been done to fight corruption, to make the banking sector transparent, to decentralize the state, to increase energy independence, to provide digital administrative services, to revive the economy, to bring the result from: 9 % of gdp to: + 2% of gdp.
let me remind you: belarus is no longer a country where political prisoners are held, efforts have been made to control plant health, air pollution, the bologna system, its implementation.
only a well-functioning economy can provide sustainable, high-quality jobs that are the basis for stability and prosperity for european families.
this was also recognised among them in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, reaffirming the importance of cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue as overriding principles of sustainable development.
it should also be clear that the level of error estimated by the court – and this was also highlighted by previous speakers – is not a result of fraud, inefficiency or waste of funds per se and the pressure on the european union and the national finances is still a reality in the current economic scenario.
the remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate, economic dependence on a few products are permanent features that severely restrain outermost regions’ development.
i therefore support an amendment aiming at allowing, (obviously) under strict conditions and in line with the objective of sustainable fishing, public funding for modernisation of these regions' artisanal and traditional fishing vessels.
the downside is that these countries often fail to comply with laws, standards, and regulations on human rights, labor rights, health and safety, environmental protection, and so on.
every purchase of clothing, regardless of where or how it is made, affects the people who make it and the environment in which it is made.
i am against the violation of human rights, labour rights and environmental standards, and therefore i support the wording of the binding human rights clauses and the social and environmental clauses.
i am thinking, for example, of financing infrastructure, support for smes, employment, the fight against global warming, support for sustainable transport and the union's external policies.
finally, the commission supports - and we have worked extensively together on this in the framework of the paris agreement approach - the eib's ambitious climate strategy, which is in line with the objectives of the cop21 paris agreement, both in terms of energy and climate.
we are working closely with the eib and other stakeholders to develop new financial instruments that will facilitate sustainable mobility.
the new european fund for sustainable development, the edf, is based on blended finance.
taking into consideration the current political and economic climate, it is unlikely that in the future we will have more, or even the same amount of resources available not only to support investment, but in fact for eu priorities in general.
as highlighted in the reports, the eib’s activities have contributed to sustainable growth and employment in europe and to stability in our neighbourhood.
i am particularly proud that the eu bank continues to be the world leader in climate-related finance, as well as of the effect our financing has on young people.
this industry is affected by various pathologies related to violations of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection, health and safety, etc.
i fully support the initiative of mrs borzan to call on the commission to take action against food waste.
88 million tons of food worth 150 billion euros a year goes to waste.
we use energy to produce our food, we use renewable resources, and perhaps the biggest problem is that since we are able to produce roughly the same amount of plant and animal products every year, we think we can afford to be thrifty with them.
food production uses water, emits carbon and affects the environment, but on the other hand, food waste is primarily an ethical issue.
food cannot go to waste.
and we don't even have a complete statistic of how much food waste we produce in each country.
when you look at the scale of food waste, it's important to note that these resources can be used to produce not just food, but other products.
but the question is, if the scale of waste is so great, is there not a need for some reflection?
in taking part in the debate on reducing food waste and increasing food security, i would like to stress that the report's call for a 50% reduction by 2030 is worth supporting, especially since 88 million tonnes of food are currently wasted every year, worth almost eur 150 billion.
moreover, given that western european countries have at least five times the rate of food waste as central and eastern european countries, the main focus on tackling food waste should be on highly developed countries.
food waste affects the entire food supply chain and we should all take appropriate steps to reduce it effectively.
cooperation at both union and member state level is necessary given the complexity of the problem and the need to coordinate waste, food safety and food information policies, as well as economic, research and innovation, environmental, agricultural, education and social policies.
at the same time, i hope that measures to reduce food waste will go hand in hand with improving food safety, which must remain a priority.
let me conclude by saying that sustainable globalisation can happen only through cooperation among outward—looking partners.
ladies and gentlemen, our international environment is recombining at a surprising and no less worrying rate.
good governance based on a bold and determined vision of african integration, trade incentives, the removal of customs barriers, innovative initiatives in clean agriculture and renewable energy, and technologies and services are key levers of the desired renaissance.
its economic growth rate has remained sustainable over the past decade.
our ambition will be supported by a ruthless fight against impunity, corruption, waste and misappropriation of public funds.
ladies and gentlemen, all current and prospective expertise indicates with certainty that africa is the region of the world that suffers most from the degradation of the natural environment and climate change.
the horribly disconcerting paradox here is that africa, the least polluting continent on the planet, is the one that suffers the most from climate change.
in this context, is it not superfluous to recall that africa is only getting a fair share of the international efforts and sacrifices to counter or at least alleviate the universal threat posed to humanity by climate change?
i therefore also note, among other things, the moral imperative to combat food waste by all means and i have tabled amendments specifically concerning the need to improve the quality of food.
although i voted for the report, it is a pity that it did not take account of a problem which i believe is extremely important, especially given the high rate of waste in households.
in the european union, on the other hand, we waste almost 90 million tonnes of food a year.
the commission has also assessed the situation of the moldovan authorities in the light of the recent developments in the energy sector.
in combination with the near total dominance of the moldovan gas supply system by russia's gazprom, there is a fear that moldova is exposed to energy blackmail by russia.
to prevent them, eu policy must therefore promote the development of a sustainable road sector characterised by fair competition.
the sustainability regulations are also a very important part of the agreement.
we would also like to discuss issues such as non-tariff barriers, sanitary and phytosanitary barriers, environmental protection, intellectual property protection and the implementation by korea of the international labour organization convention.
they provide a proven and sound basis for public investment in infrastructure, environment and social investment.
we have taken little responsibility for this country, which in its geopolitical environment needed our help, and today the remarks made in this room by my colleagues - charles tannock, javier nart - are very timely.
the adoption of the consensus is a key eu deliverable in the commitment to globally implement the 2030 agenda and support partner countries in achieving the sustainable development goals.
the eu is sending an important signal to the global community, notably to the un high level political forum in july, on how it will support partner countries in their endeavour to implement the 2030 agenda and achieve the sustainable development goals.
our top priorities will be to work towards the eradication of poverty, to reduce inequalities and promote social inclusion, to promote good governance, to ensure human and economic development, to tackle global issues such as the fight against hunger, to protect the environment, as well as to preserve the world's natural resources.
the complexity and degree of interconnection between the economic, social and environmental dimensions of development policy this can only be strengthened through a holistic approach.
the resilience of countries and societies should be put at the centre of our attention and the cross-cutting elements of the consensus such as gender equality, youth, investment and trade, sustainable energy, climate action, good governance, democracy, rule of law and human rights, as well as migration and mobility accelerate results, progress and transformation to achieve the sustainable development goals.
the new european consensus on development represents a profound shift in our development cooperation, guided by the vision of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
it integrates the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development and also underlines the links with other policies to make sure they take account of development concerns, including peace and security, humanitarian aid, migration, environment and climate.
therefore it also represents a significant contribution to the implementation of the paris agreement on climate change and the united nations’ efforts to build sustainable peace for all.
we put strong emphasis on better tailored partnerships with a broader range of stakeholders and partner countries, stressing the importance of fully involving civil society, the european parliament and the national parliaments in the implementation of the sustainable development goals.
it should allow for signature at the highest political level at the european development days next week and it will provide the european union with a very substantial deliverable for the united nations high—level political forum on sustainable development in july.
at a time when the values of multilateralism and solidarity are called into question and the commitment of some to sustainable development seems to be wavering, europe must pull its weight and help to keep global efforts on the right track.
as mentioned above, the main political objective of the new consensus - which is closely linked to the 2020-2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals - is to combat poverty, discrimination and inequalities.
i am convinced that this will be an important signal from the european union and its member states to uphold their international commitments to eradicate poverty and achieve the sustainable development goals.
the european union was instrumental in shaping the global 2030 agenda, which is consistent with our vision and has now become the world’s blueprint for global sustainable development.
the world is looking to us to live up to this role and lead the global implementation efforts by taking full account of the sustainable development goals in the european policy framework and in our priorities.
please believe me that, without this consensus, eradicating poverty, reaching our official development assistance (oda) commitments, effectively tackling the root causes of migration, and ensuring the leading global role of the european union in the implementation of the sustainable development goals will be much, much more difficult to achieve, if they are possible at all.
therefore i find the wording in the relevant paragraph a good compromise that opens new ways to include and firmly embed security in the overall sustainable development framework.
this is a positive sign that the commission has decided to include resilience as a strategic priority of the union's external action and has also committed to update the 2012 document and continue the action plan to 2020. the negative effects of conflicts and disasters have long-term and significant impacts on the economy, social issues, health, culture and the environment.
we need to invest a lot and to use all our collective energy and determination against these phenomena, and we need to work in the direction of having a hate-free europe.
this debate has convinced me that we have to invest a lot of energy in combating not only anti-semitism, but also all other kinds of hatred in europe.
moreover, the last sustainable impact assessment that we did for the dcfta in 2007 forecast a deep market opening by the eu, and that is still valid.
– madam president, coastal and marine resources contribute an estimated eur 30 trillion to global [inaudible] ecosystem services, but those resources are extremely vulnerable to environmental degradation, overfishing, climate change and pollution.
in this context, policymakers all over the world need to find a way to agree to ensure sustainable long-term use of the oceans.
only yesterday, members of committee on fisheries voted on my opinion concerning an agenda for the future of our oceans in the context of the 2030 sustainable development goals.
we therefore encourage more concrete actions in order to accomplish the sustainable development goals.
international oceans governance should apply the principles of decentralisation and regionalisation; it should involve all the stakeholders at all stages, from conception to implementation of the measures, and it should be based on environmental and strategic impact assessment.
the next generation of ultra-high broadband infrastructure will support the transformation of processors in all economic sectors – healthcare, energy, utilities, transport, automotive industry, virtual reality – and provide flexible and highly personalised services that improve every citizen’s life.
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by ms sofia sakorafa on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the participation of the union in the partnership for research and innovation in the mediterranean area (prima) jointly undertaken by several member states (com (2016) 0662 c8-0421/2016 2016/0325cod) (a8-0112/2017).
the next item is the report by mr soledad cabezón ruiz, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the review of the implementation of the horizon 2020 programme with a view to its mid-term evaluation and the preparation of the proposal for the 9th framework programme (2016/2147 (ini)) (a8-0209/2017).
but the challenges facing the union are also enormous - they are very dynamic, from the migration crisis to the economic crisis, demography, health, space, climate.
therefore, the most important criteria for funding should remain scientific excellence and soundness, rather than the routine and the habit of the academic-industrial environment.
what is important in this solution, especially after the discussed and approved corrections, is that the energy enabling framework allows customers to be more aware of the energy efficiency and consumption of household appliances such as dishwashers, televisions and fridges, which will help them to reduce their energy costs.
this regulation also contributes to the moderation of energy demand and the achievement of the union’s energy efficiency targets, so there are macroeconomic savings and advantages with this solution.
this will make energy labels more understandable for consumers and help them make better informed purchasing choices.
the proposal also contains clearer rules on promotional campaigns and national incentives to promote higher classes of efficiency, and aims to improve enforcement mechanisms and transparency for customers by creating a platform with a database of products covered by energy labelling requirements.
the revised energy efficiency label, together with eco-design, can save households close to eur 500 per year.
it is good that the rapporteur is restoring the flexibility mechanism of 280 million tonnes of carbon dioxide from the lulucf sector by extending it to forestry.
proper action in the forestry sector will offset emissions to a large extent.
energy efficiency is very important first of all in industry, in the economy, but it's no less important in households.
and so, to be highly energy efficient is not just to save money in your home, but also to save money on the world's natural resources.
it's about promoting sustainability, which is the essence of the times we live in.
energy efficiency also boosts technical, technological development, and therefore innovation, which is very important.
it is also essential that these agencies work with the us environmental protection agency to jointly develop an appropriate system, firstly to collect and analyse scientific data, but also to develop a specific modus operandi to resolve the uncertainties surrounding glyphosate in a health context.
our health depends to a large extent on the quality of the food we eat and on the state of the environment, and i think it is very important that any additives and chemicals we use in food production, plant protection or agriculture are not subject to any doubt.
today i would like to say very openly – let me reiterate this – that i firmly believe that the european union system concerning the approval of active substances to be used in plant protection products is robust, trustworthy and ensures the highest safety standards for human and animal health and the environment.
i would like to mention that glyphosate is, as you know, labelled – this is a hazard classification –as corrosive, causing serious eye damage, hazardous to the environment and toxic to aquatic life, with long-lasting effects.
unfortunately, an attempt was made to renew its authorisation again, despite recent studies showing further cases of carcinogenicity of glyphosate and the german environmental protection agency documenting a serious negative impact of glyphosate on biodiversity.
organic farming is proving at every turn that glyphosate is not essential to its productivity, and the agriculture of the future must be based on high biodiversity, a wide variety of crops and working in harmony with nature, not against it.
first, to accompany the congolese people through the current crisis; secondly, to support them and build accountable institutions that will stand the test of time; and third, to help them deliver good governance and, of course, a sustainable democracy.
however, while it will be difficult to find common ground with the president of the united states on climate or world trade issues, the european union's defence dimension should be built in full synergy with nato, as i do not rule out that president trump will confirm us commitments in poland, where he will arrive on 6 july.
it doesn't take decarbonization, it values the role of forests in the carbon footprint, it's about sustainability.
following the withdrawal of the united states from the paris agreement, the eu's climate policy should be reviewed.
i call on you, commissioner, to make the paris agreement the foundation of a european climate policy that does not involve decarbonisation, that values the role of forests in the co2 balance and that focuses on sustainable development.
it's a country that's responsible for 15 percent of the world's co2 emissions, second only to china, which emits 30 percent.
i recommend that we return to the foundation of climate policy, which is what the paris agreement should be.
such synergies would make it easier to generate sustainable economic growth.
with this in mind, i believe that in future more attention should be paid to ensuring that investments supported by the fund lead to employment growth, generate sustainable economic growth and contribute to deepening economic, territorial and social cohesion.
one of the positive impacts of the sharing economy is environmental and social sustainability in economic development.
i also wanted to point out that unfortunately, many of these activities are not really conducive to the family, which we know is the natural environment for raising a child.
in answer to your first question: what concrete action is the commission planning to take to give effect to the commitments made in the abovementioned communication pertaining to sustainable development goal (sdg) 3, ‘ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages’?
let me assure you that the commission remains fully committed to helping member states achieve the goal of ending hiv/aids and tuberculosis and reducing viral hepatitis by 2030. the commission reaffirmed this commitment last november in its communication entitled ‘next steps for a sustainable european future’.
it's losing consumers who are forced to buy more products too quickly, and it's losing the environment by increasing the amount of e-waste.
the report highlights the importance of the circular economy and the economic, social and environmental importance for europe of turning waste into a valuable resource.
in particular, the impact of longer product life on reducing emissions, increasing the security of supply of raw materials and increasing the competitiveness of european industry, as well as increasing the production efficiency of companies while reducing costs, was highlighted.
therefore, in my view, it is necessary to examine in detail both the issue of the assessment of the useful life of products and to encourage manufacturers to produce much more durable machines and equipment of high quality, and in addition to this to promote the establishment of repair shops in order to reduce waste and unnecessary pollution.
justice is the only effective and sustainable response to such violence because impunity generates more hatred and often leads to revenge and more suffering.
so justice is, for us, the only way towards reconciliation and sustainable peace.
these range from support for the qualifications of professional yacht skippers and recreational boating, to waste prevention and the management of marine litter.
you have highlighted the importance of sustainability and preservation of resources.
2017 is the un year of sustainable tourism for development.
the commission has been working towards promoting sustainable tourism for many years, through initiatives such as the european destinations of excellence, a commission initiative which promotes sustainable tourism destination models, dealing with seasonality and rebalancing the tourism flows towards non-traditional destinations.
sustainable tourism also has an important focus in some sea-basin strategies, such as the european strategy for the adriatic and ionian macro-region, where sustainable tourism is one of the central pillars.
also in the context of marine protected areas we work with member states to support the creation and extension of existing marine protection areas, and to ensure that tourism activities in marine protection areas are managed in a sustainable manner, and are preferably distributed in a balanced way throughout the year, avoiding summer peaks.
in conclusion, we welcome this report and its emphasis on promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive tourism, also at the local level, by pulling together the resources, contact persons and actions of all the relevant services.
we do not want to discriminate against eu companies and that is why we oppose some of the rapporteur’s amendments that simply put eu companies at a competitive disadvantage vis—à—vis their third country competitors, and which would also make the business climate in the european union less friendly for investors.
i believe that the document adopted by the european parliament is a good one in terms of promoting tax transparency on the one hand and protecting the competitiveness of european companies and the investment climate in the european union on the other.
the reporting we are talking about is designed to benefit consumers, the environment and businesses.
the day after tomorrow – on thursday – you will vote on better access for blind and partially sighted people to copyright works, as well as on the european fund for sustainable development to address the poor living standards and lack of work opportunities which push people to migrate.
we are also in the process of taking very important decisions on the functioning of the energy union, proposing solutions that concern a resource-efficient union, especially with regard to the circular economy, and we still have a real decision to make on the defence union and the challenges in this area, in particular in terms of combating terrorism and our external security.
however, a specific reporting mechanism and appropriate parliamentary oversight are necessary to monitor the implementation of instruments such as the trust fund for africa and the new european fund for sustainable development and to regularly assess their effectiveness.
and we need to use the opportunity in the coming years to use the instruments we have already put in place: the digital single market; the energy union – extremely important – perfecting the internal market – still a lot to do – creating a fairer tax system, helping member states to do that and also making sure that multinationals pay taxes – these are all steps that we need to take in the next couple of years.
do we assess, for example, the energy security situation that deteriorates the position of these countries?
the proposals to cut the cap, which has already been cut by 11% in the current financial perspective, by €48 billion, while imposing additional tasks on eu agriculture in the fields of environmental, climate, landscape and biodiversity protection, seem to be an attempt to sabotage their implementation.
if it had been written 'rational growth' or 'reasonable growth', it might have been more palatable in the current climate of the european union.
we can create them in rural areas, for example, with renewable energy.
farmers produce many public goods that are important for people, the environment or the climate, that need to be valued and paid for.
in this opinion, we call for the 2018 eu budget, which has as its main objective sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and the creation of new jobs, especially for young people, to include measures to strengthen women's entrepreneurship, especially in the fastest growing sectors of the european union's economy, such as the ict sector.
we also need to increase the representation of women in programmes such as the youth employment initiative, where internships and training are offered, especially again in the ict sector, in the technical sectors where women are under-represented, because the future of europe cannot be built without the participation of women and we cannot afford to waste and not use their talents and their competences.
second, culture is a resource for growth and sustainable development, as acknowledged in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
for all these different strands of work to succeed, we need to continue our work together with all european actors and all our partners in the cultural environment sharing the same sense of direction.
you propose as a priority an open and innovative economy, but at the same time a sustainable one, which also includes our societies, and a europe of the future, which speaks of digital challenges and in particular of building the freedom of data flow.
the priorities of the estonian presidency, as set out in the plenary session, include promoting an open and innovative european economy, the sustainable development of the union and strengthening security.
the next item is the report by mr eduard kukana, mr doru-claudian frunzulica and mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on development and the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) and establishing an efsd guarantee and an efsd guarantee fund (com (((2016) 0586 - c8-0377/2016 - 2016/0281 (((cod)) (a8-0170/2017).
i believe that the establishment of the european fund for sustainable development is a very concrete way of putting those words into practice.
however, we must remember that the sustainable development fund is one of the three pillars of the european external investment plan and it is crucial to put equal emphasis on the other two pillars, in particular on actions to improve the investment climate and the overall political environment and to fight corruption.
the proposed european fund for sustainable development is expected to mobilise €44 billion of investment in africa, as well as in the southern and eastern neighbourhoods.
sustainable development is equally concerned with each of the three pillars: environmental, economic and social.
it is a bioeconomy, an innovative approach to renewable resources, including food but also energy, a circular economy that is necessary for resource efficiency but also for resource reuse, an energy policy that will ensure security of supply and poverty on the one hand, but also contribute to climate objectives or, for example, clean air.
he's giving a public speech in warsaw tomorrow, and we'll see if he can get one sentence out of the way on the sustainable development goals.
i only mention this because i am convinced that the united nations general assembly's 2030 sustainable development goals cannot be achieved without the cooperation and collaboration of countries that are leaders in economic development, countries like the united states, russia, china, india and so on.
today, european societies face many sustainable development challenges, ranging from widespread poverty and environmental degradation to the threats posed by climate change.
the sustainable development goals and the related tasks are interdependent and indivisible.
given the limitations of the planet, the scarcity of resources, growing inequalities and the importance of sustainable economic growth for protecting our welfare systems, a common european approach to achieving the sustainable development goals in all aspects of the union's work is of paramount importance.
the essence of sustainable development is a dignified life, and it is therefore necessary to step up efforts to integrate the sdgs into cross-cutting projects and initiatives that will contribute to better and more coherent outcomes in terms of health, well-being of citizens, climate change and environmental protection.
to preserve the european social model and social cohesion, it is necessary to invest in young people, to stimulate sustainable and inclusive growth, to tackle inequalities and to manage migration appropriately.
many areas on the european continent still face similar problems because of remoteness, climate, topography or the delays of being under communism.
the vote will take place on thursday 6 july 2017.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by sirpa pietikäinen, renata briano, mark demesmaeker, catherine bearder, anja hazekamp, keith taylor, eleonora evi on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on whaling in norway (o000058/2017 2017/2712(rsp) b80324/2017).
the next item is the report drawn up by julie girling on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the eu emissions trading system (eu ets): continuing the current limitation of aviation activities and preparing for the implementation of a global market measure from 2021 (com2017) 0054 - c8-0028/2017 - 2017/0017 (cod)) (a8-0258/2017).
it does not therefore blindly promote radical reductions in co2 emissions, but instead aims to achieve emission neutrality, i.e.
a balance between emissions and the capacity to absorb them.
it is therefore essential that lulucf enables forest management that ensures the maintenance and development of carbon-absorbing forest resources on the one hand, and does not restrict those sectors of the economy that depend on forestry on the other.
forests, as we know, have many functions that have a very positive impact on the functioning of ecosystems, on our lives, but also on reducing co2 emissions.
it is estimated that forests in europe absorb one tenth of total greenhouse gas emissions each year, which represents a large absorption potential that should undoubtedly be maintained and developed.
it is therefore worth remembering that the perception of forest resources as an effective way to contribute to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions may also result in a relief for other high-carbon sectors of individual economies.
it is also necessary to take account of the differences between member states and to advocate a position that will lead to the implementation of the paris agreement and the prevention of climate change in a balanced and comprehensive manner.
this can certainly be achieved by integrating forest, climate and economic policies and by developing long-term plans and strategies for european forestry.
the information reached member states only in july 2017, resulting in millions of contaminated eggs and poultry meat being delivered to markets or consumed or used for the production of ready meals, posing a risk to public health and the environment.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner on a very good initiative, and also the rapporteur for his great work, all the shadow rapporteurs, and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) members.
it is hard to imagine that some europeans today do not have access to a common means of communication with their environment, the internet.
it's also a guide to negotiating the next elements of our energy package.
the essential elements of this regulation are the facilitation of two-way gas flows, the increased exchange of important information on security of supply with the european commission and national authorities, and closer cooperation with the energy community.
this geopolitical project undermines european solidarity and is incompatible with the spirit of this regulation and one of the main objectives of the energy union, namely the diversification of gas supplies.
i would also like to say that this draft new regulation on the security of gas supplies complements the provisions adopted by the european parliament in march on intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy, mainly gas, which introduced a mandatory mechanism for verifying these agreements before they are signed, and both these regulations will undoubtedly increase the energy security of europeans.
i believe it is crucial that we stand united against projects such as nord stream ii and subject them to european energy rules.
i say this because we have the whole energy package, the eight regulations, the directives, on the table.
and finally, the energy union that we are creating.
we have a lot of work ahead of us on the energy union.
the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures to safeguard the security of natural gas supply is proof that the energy union is no longer a mere slogan but is becoming a real and effective mechanism to support member states in the event of a gas supply disruption.
at the same time, however, i hope that the nord stream 2 gas pipeline project, which directly affects europe's energy security and the very idea of an energy union, will be blocked just as quickly and effectively.
whales are living creatures, and they have an extremely beneficial contribution to the marine ecosystem.
in many countries, corruption is a significant systemic obstacle to the application of democracy, respect for the rule of law, the achievement of political freedom and sustainable development, and the enjoyment of all human rights.
corruption is a global phenomenon, spreading across borders, brutally hitting the most deprived in developing countries, undermining sustainable development and deepening inequalities and the gap between the ruling elite and the majority.
the climate in europe today is different, and so was the tone of the 2017 state of the union address.
the challenges we face are first and foremost to ensure that europeans have a sound european economy and security, including economic security, but also energy security, for example.
secondly, we have to be honest about the fact that the reason for this policy of the car manufacturers was the rising environmental standards and the tightening of the emission standards, which were far ahead of the technological possibilities and generated enormous costs.
on the one hand, the european union countries are incurring huge costs to reduce their emissions, and on the other hand, the european commission is not enforcing the standards imposed.
ladies and gentlemen, thousands of consumers have been choosing diesel cars, believing that they are protecting the environment, when in fact they have been deceived.
what's most disturbing about this whole thing is that the emissions figures were manipulated with the intent to increase profits.
it is safe to say that the european union's efforts to combat climate change and reduce the negative environmental impact of motor vehicles have been completely ignored and violated.
the accessibility act is a natural consequence of our union's international commitments, and the consequence of europe's civilizational development is the creation of an accessible environment in which everyone can lead an active life and contribute to common social and economic development.
disregard for the ecosystem and any departure from sustainable fishing in the north sea will sooner or later have fatal consequences for the other seas around the european union.
it is incompatible with european law, in particular with the third energy package.
the european parliament's overwhelming majority is against nordstream 2 because it does not meet the conditions and principles of the energy union and cannot be granted any derogations or financial support.
we would be clear if this mandate said that the pipeline up to the border of a third country, through the whole of the baltic, must comply with european union law, and especially with the third energy package.
the construction of additional pipelines poses a threat to the energy security of the countries of the region, and above all to ukraine, which has been attacked by the russian federation, increasing its vulnerability to russian energy blackmail.
in its positions and actions, the european commission has repeatedly sided more with the russian energy giant gazprom than with its european partners.
i therefore call on member states to give a strong mandate to negotiate with russia to bring nord stream 2 under the third energy package.
the nord stream 2 project is not consistent with the eu's energy policy in the natural gas sector, which emphasises the development of well-functioning gas markets through increased diversification of supply sources and infrastructure integration.
first, extreme weather conditions such as extended heatwaves, drought and strong winds, which are intensifying due to climate change.
second, fire-proneness of forests due to natural resource mismanagement and unsustainable land-use decisions such as abandonment of sustainable forest management practices.
the protection of forests is essential, and their beneficial impact on the environment or climate is inestimable, if not impossible to quantify.
only joint action involving third countries will significantly protect these species from overfishing and contribute to the stability and sustainability of fisheries in the region.
but we must remember that within these relations we should develop not only economic cooperation but also activities in favour of democracy and human rights, climate and environmental protection.
many of these girls could have been saved if their families had not been under such pressure from their muslim environment.
the bonn conference and the katowice climate summit are a great opportunity to work out solutions that will allow the parties to the paris agreement to maintain the sense that we are moving together towards a common goal at a reasonable pace.
but they are pleased with the greenhouse gas emissions data from the past year, which shows that global emissions have only increased slightly, which may indicate that we are somewhere near the peak of emissions, and that emissions will soon start to fall.
the five-year action plans and the periodic evaluations of progress in reducing emissions will also be an important element.
recent reports by the who and the european environment agency have confirmed the harmful effects of chemicals used in the production of food, cosmetics, packaging and other plastic products on humans and the environment, based on current research.
the enlightening debate showed, on the one hand, a different attitude towards the law in force, but above all a conflict between concern for human health and the environment and concern for the competitiveness of european agriculture on the world market.
the more mass immigration, the greater the effect, because the social integration of these families would be easier if they did not live in such a non-european environment.
deforestation and degradation of forests, not just tropical forests, is responsible for 20 percent of the climate problems associated with greenhouse gas emissions.
i would like to draw attention to this in bonn, when we have the next climate summit, to show good practices, to try to increase the impact, so that the limitations of parks, forests, gardens in our area of responsibility, the european responsibility, can be reduced.
the most important task for climate negotiators is to finalise the implementation package for the paris agreement.
poland supports the openness resulting from the paris agreement in the field of voluntary choice of methods for achieving its objectives, in order to maintain energy security and security of supply taking into account national conditions and based on the use of its own energy resources.
the climate conferences in bonn and katowice will be the perfect moment to build on the momentum of 2015, and the adoption of the paris agreement implementation package will be the beginning of a better future for our planet.
as a result, the budgetary situation in some member states has not improved despite a generally better macroeconomic environment and stronger growth.
for ‘natural resources, world development, the environment, climate action and fisheries’ it was 4.9%.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
i look forward to the discussions which will now take place in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on this basis.
the commission's proposal to drastically reduce the permissible levels of heavy metal pollution in fertilisers, mainly cadmium, is controversial.
the union fertiliser producers will be forced to increase their production costs significantly either by expensive heavy metal ore purification technology or by importing lower-pollution mineral ores from one of the global exporters.
the standards proposed in the report are drastic, and the argument of environmental protection and consumer health, while important, is not supported by any clear evidence to suggest the need for such a strict limitation of heavy metal content in fertiliser production.
i urge you to bear in mind when voting that the adoption of a report imposing such restrictive environmental standards on the european market will make it much more difficult for our national producer to operate on the european fertiliser market.
seen from this perspective, i find the proposal put forward by the commission and then changed by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety unacceptable, simply because it goes too far, is far too restrictive and is potentially harmful for eu industrial agriculture.
so if we want to move away from a monopoly of the raw materials market by just one country, we should allow for a scenario of a reasonable reduction in the cadmium content of fertilisers, and then we will have this effect, which is associated with better fertiliser quality, with reduced pollution, including cadmium, but also with a price that is reasonable for industry and also for farmers who are going to use these fertilisers in production.
these changes must be made quickly, because we cannot afford to waste the next few years.
there is also the problem of nord stream 2, this notorious and politically hostile russian—german energy enterprise.
we support the establishment of mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the sustainable development goals by the european union and its member states, in line with the new european consensus on development.
i wanted to thank you for this presentation of the commission's objectives for 2018. there are many important issues that the commission has put forward, as if to be big on big things, such as the energy union, the continuation of this project, the defence union, including the defence of the borders of the european union or the digital agenda and connecting with it and with the defence union cybersecurity.
but it also proposed, among other things, a 'mobility and climate change' package, which is needed but also very controversial, as future emissions regulations should be correlated with the long-term vision of the automotive sector's transition towards zero emissions.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
so, in this context, the committee on industry, research and energy regrets the significant cuts in horizon 2020. we cannot expect the eu to be more innovative and competitive when our framework programme is used as a financial source for other projects, no matter how important.
another issue: cuts to cosme and the council’s reductions to the sme instruments: to create an sme—friendly business environment it is crucial to provide the necessary financial instruments.
last but not least, financial resources for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit), the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) and the european global navigation satellite systems agency (gnss).
we can't let that go to waste.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by alain cadec, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, and adin-ioana vălean, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the protection of coastal marine habitats for posidonia oceanica (o-000076/2017 - b8-0605/2017) (2017/2903rsp)).
this is a serious issue because the meadows of posidonia oceanica are declining at an alarming rate due to climate change and other human activities.
yes, the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) is offering the member states financial support not only to protect, but also to restore the marine biodiversity and ecosystems, including the posidonia meadows.
protecting marine biodiversity is very much part of a number of actions on ocean governance.
we have a number of tools at our disposal including the cfp, maritime spatial planning, the integrated maritime policy, action against the negative impacts of climate change, and all these actions support our efforts to protect the species.
yes, i was in bonn last week and i was thoroughly pushing, together with my colleagues, the concept that you cannot separate the oceans from climate change – they are both inseparable and they are either mutually constructive or mutually destructive.
the oceans absorb some 90% of the planet’s heat, they absorb some 30% of the planet’s carbon dioxide, they give us some 50% of the planet’s oxygen and they will have to take all the melted ice when it becomes water.
the oceans are climate change, as i said.
this is something that we are pushing: you cannot discuss climate change without including the oceans in the discussions or in the negotiations.
i agree with mr ferreira when he said that the sea grass meadows have huge value as biodiversity habitat.
i mentioned some of the benefits that we are getting from the oceans and in return we are only giving back over-fishing, pollution, eutrophication and all the negative impacts of climate change as well.
we talk about the importance that this species has in the mediterranean sea, but unfortunately it is also affected by global threats as well, such as climate change, acidification, temperature increase, eutrophication and so on.
i want to mention also what maria rodríguez said, because in the mediterranean this year we came up with the medfish4ever declaration where we had all the countries of the mediterranean for the very first time, all of them signing a declaration, and the declaration refers to the importance and the urgency of protecting not just the fishing species but also paid special attention to the mediterranean’s biodiversity where posidonia is included.
rosa d’amato rightly mentioned the negative economic aspects if we are not looking after our seas from a biodiversity aspect as well.
rosa also mentioned renewable energy and this is also something which i have been pulling and pushing for quite some time, because the oceans can be one of our best allies when it comes to renewable energy.
when we talk about renewable energy, very often we only think about solar and wind, but we have to start looking, and i have to say with pleasure that europe is also already looking, at alternative energy coming from the oceans, tides, waves, currents so on and so forth.
when we talk about human actions, we should also include factors like climate change because after all climate change is also the result of human actions.
mr caputo again mentioned that these are resistant species, but they too have their limits, and we have to look not just at the individual effects of all the threats that we have been mentioning, but we have to look at the accumulated effect of all the threats, when you have climate change working along with eutrophication, working along with acidification, working along with overfishing and illegal fishing and so on.
if i give you an example of the great barrier reef, only 20 years ago scientists were putting the first questions about whether the great barrier reef would take on the effects of climate.
it was just a question, and later on they said that by 2050 the reefs would be feeling and having the negative effects of climate change.
i am very grateful to you for your energy in raising awareness of this important issue of the population of the european union, and i also want to congratulate you for replying to these kinds of speeches.
i agree with all of you that gdp alone does not accurately enough reflect the needs of a region, as it leaves out crucial parameters such as quality of life, social inclusion, level of employment or sustainable development.
everyone is seeing the end of the propaganda of the greatest hoax in human history, namely, global warming.
the fact that the scientific community is already retreating from the idea of man-made global warming is one thing, but i am demanding that the european union, which has spent a lot of money on this fight against global warming, investigate who has benefited financially from this alleged fight against global warming, who has decided to spend this money.
more importantly, however, the european commission has in recent years placed a strong emphasis on developing the inland waterway sector, partly because of its relatively low environmental impact.
making the eastern partnership more attractive by enabling neighbours to access, inter alia, the customs union, the digital union, the energy union and the schengen area in the future is the right step towards effectively achieving the objectives set out in article 8 of the treaty on european union, which provides that the union shall develop special relations with its neighbouring countries, aiming at creating an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness, based on the union's values and characterised by close and peaceful relations based on cooperation.
the commission's communication sets out the priorities for relations between the european union and african states in response to the joint communication of the commission and the high representative of may 2017. as the rapporteur and colleagues have already mentioned, the report is based on the need to strengthen the resilience of societies, in particular through actions such as promoting economic development, strengthening good governance and security, and above all respect for human rights and emphasising social and environmental aspects.
the report also addresses challenging issues such as migration and mobility, and highlights the role of young people, as well as references to recommendations related to the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda.
and this is poland, which we could be very proud of as the collective work of poles, reaching for the highest positions in the european union, the largest funds, influence, moving their ideas to european union programmes like the eastern partnership, the energy union.
– mr president, coming back from the cop23 summit in bonn, i can testify to the fact that the global community is reassured by the eu’s leadership and welcomes our reformed emissions-trading scheme and this mobility package proposal.
the clean mobility package is about europe’s political leadership in climate action and industrial leadership in clean and smart mobility.
as i have often said in the past, the leading economy of the 21st century will be the one that leads the transition to clean energy.
first, we set new emissions standards for cars and vans that are 30% lower in 2030 than in 2021, with an intermediary target in 2025, so that no time is wasted.
second, we increased our support for the roll-out of alternative fuel infrastructure with a eur 800 million action plan, and the bulk of the money comes from europe’s carbon market, whose reform has now been adopted.
the demand for batteries is about to spike all around the world and create a gigantic market worth eur 250 billion in europe alone by 2025. so this is our chance to capture this market in a sustainable way.
this means clean production, sustainable and responsible mining of raw materials, recycling and reusing.
it is also sending a message to our global partners about our ambition and continued commitment to lead in the fight against climate change.
we will benefit from lower dependency on external energy providers, and we will all start breathing clean air once again, saving thousands of lives which are currently lost to pollution-related diseases.
but, as vice—president šefčovič has just underlined, transport also has negative impacts on climate and air quality, which require robust reforms.
today transport accounts for a quarter of all european greenhouse gas emissions.
in addition, transport contributes to air pollution, which causes the premature death of 400 000 europeans every year.
we are delivering on all three pillars in our low emission mobility strategy: first, improving the organisation of our transport systems; second, promoting cleaner vehicles; and, third, making alternative energy more accessible for transport.
we strongly believe that we can significantly decrease transport emissions by further integrating the different modes of transport.
that brings me to the third area, alternative energy.
the range of measures announced today means that transport will continue to play its part in tackling climate change.
looking at air pollution, especially in large european cities, and the costs that this entails, especially in health, i think there is no doubt that there is a need for smart, clean energy mobility.
as we all know, transport is on the one hand pollution, co2 emissions, but on the other hand it is hundreds of thousands of jobs.
we also need to remember that we need to invest in the infrastructure for charging cars, which is very scarce today, and we need to invest in the energy grid to cope with the increased load.
this inspiration to go towards research and development, batteries, engines, intelligent transport systems, energy supply, or a kind of refuelling system, finally the principles of motion, an intelligent system is what can create this quality, the beginning, the momentum.
in principle, the proposals presented are a step in the right direction and can facilitate the transition to low and zero-emission vehicles, which can have positive effects not only for the environment but also for the european industry, which will maintain its competitive position on the global market.
maintaining these inequalities leads to a waste of women's potential, only partially exploiting their education, skills and creativity, which play a key role in the functioning of the labour market, its development and the creation of new jobs.
inequalities are a major challenge, as they are a barrier to the proper and sustainable development of society.
given that the opening of new alternative markets for the union fruit and vegetables sector, equivalent to the russian market, is not feasible in the short to medium term, in particular due to non-tariff barriers to trade, it is necessary to find a sustainable solution to this situation until the end of the russian embargo.
cultural ties, political ties, economic ties, respect for human rights and the rule of law, cooperation on the environment and security, including the fight against terrorism.
what's important is that new zealand is a democratic country that respects the rule of law, the environment, the rights of minorities.
the agreement creates long-term cultural, political and economic links between the eu and new zealand, reinforces shared values for human rights and the rule of law, and further cooperation in areas such as innovative technologies, the environment and security.
these are not only madagascar's assets but also the world's, and their over-exploitation leads to ecological degradation and above all, deprives future generations of the population, citizens of this country of the opportunity for socio-economic development, and at the same time, as we see, this leads to a decided corruption at all levels of the current government.
however, the eu should convince china not only to protect the environment but to respect universal values such as human rights, which continue to be violated in china, where the persecution of christians has increased in recent years with the demolition of churches, the removal of crosses, the arrest of worshippers and priests.
i welcome with moderate satisfaction the agreement reached two weeks ago on the eu budget for 2018. the joint text, which provides for a total commitment of eur 160.11 billion and a total payment of eur 144.68 billion, is only a partial reflection of our struggle as a parliament to secure adequate funding for initiatives relating to sustainable growth, jobs, in particular youth employment, and security.
i'm pleased to note that there's nothing in the report about fighting global warming - apparently the authors know it was a hoax - it's all about fighting climate change.
but we won't forget how much money has been spent on global warming.
fortunately, despite the green party's efforts, we have not been able to stop the carbon dioxide emissions.
carbon dioxide is increasing, and it's making the earth greener.
the earth raises the green flag because there's more carbon dioxide.
this carbon was created because there was once a lot of carbon dioxide, and plants absorbed it and turned it into carbon.
and so if that carbon is released back into the atmosphere, nothing terrible will happen.
it is absolutely socially unfair that poland, and specifically silesia and the region of zagłębia, are paying the cost of this crazy fight against climate change, as my predecessor said.
and they have to pay monstrous prices for very expensive so-called renewable energy.
as we all know, the energy union has different objectives, two main objectives that are not easy to reconcile.
on the one hand, there are climate goals, defined in different ways, but the other big goal, which we can't forget, is the goal of ensuring security of supply, of ensuring energy, not just clean energy, but energy in general.
in particular, as regards gas, it has now taken the initiative to extend the rules of the third energy package to include gas pipelines from third countries in order to settle this matter.
on the other hand, as regards electricity, i think that the commission pays too little attention to energy security, giving priority to... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this.
one of the priorities of the energy union is to ensure energy security for all member states.
nevertheless, we continue to see moves in the opposite direction, such as attempts to exclude nord stream 2 from the third energy package.
this is contrary to the principles of energy solidarity and harmful to the whole of the european union.
speaking of security, we should guarantee consumers a continuous supply of cheap energy.
we can do this by using our own energy sources, in poland's case coal, in a sustainable way.
the wrong solution is to propose in the power market legislation a cap of 550 g of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour.
it excludes coal-fired power plants from power markets, undermining our energy security and national competence to shape the energy basket.
mr bendtsen made some comments on a general view about the lack of ambition that we see in the council when we approach all these energy topics.
sometimes people make speeches about raising the level of ambition and about more targets, but when it comes to taking decisions on the tools, on the renewable energy directive or the energy performance of buildings directive, then things are quite different in the council.
so i welcome the ambition that has been shown and i also welcome the report by mr blanco lópez, which will very clearly permit us to have an important and substantial debate on renewables, taking into account – and in answer to ms van brempt’s point here – the significant fact that the new data on reduced clean technology costs lower the cost of achieving the renewable energy targets, and the achievement today of a 27% target – the one that the commission is proposing – is cheaper by eur 2.9 billion a year compared with the framework scenario we were given.
i would like to devote a few minutes to energy poverty, because mr sylikiotis complained that the package is not ambitious on energy poverty.
this is an important topic because one of the key objectives of the new package is to ensure that energy-poor and vulnerable consumers can benefit from modern energy services and are not left behind as consumers but become more engaged with the energy market.
while fighting energy poverty is a member state competence, the package presents a series of measures which support member states in their efforts to reduce energy poverty.
first of all, the package ensures that member states give proper attention to the issue of energy poverty, that they monitor the number of households in energy poverty, and that all requisite measures are taken to address it.
second, the package gives member states the tools and incentives to tackle energy poverty at the root, because to meet their energy savings obligations under the energy efficiency directive, member states have to direct energy efficiency measures towards households affected by energy poverty or in social housing.
under the energy performance of buildings directive, member states will have to consider energy poverty in their long-term renovation strategies.
the commission is currently working to set up an energy poverty observatory to assist member states in addressing energy poverty, and it will disseminate information and good practice.
we are only establishing the need to coordinate at regional level because we are no longer energy islands.
member states should now be better interconnected and energy will flow across the continent.
competitiveness is one of the five dimensions of the energy union and thus is a priority of the governance regulation because, with the national plans, member states have to report on objectives for national funding targets for research and innovation to make sure that we stay the global leader in renewable energy.
we are also putting in place an enabling framework that will be conducive to sustaining investment and growth driven by the deployment of low-carbon technologies.
as a whole, i would like to thank all the members for their interventions and say, to conclude, that the state of the energy union report highlights some progress that we have made during the last three years but it also illustrates that we still have a long way to go on the journey towards a carbon-neutral energy system.
in the coming months, as we come to finalise the clean energy for all europeans package, it will be vital in finalising the stable regulatory framework to facilitate this journey.
i am pleased that the work on the energy union is progressing well and that much has been achieved in this area over the past three years.
the success of the gas security is evident in the introduction of regional cooperation, the principle of solidarity and the transparency of energy agreements.
however, i believe that the best way to talk about the state of the energy union is through the nord stream 2 project, because it is on the basis of this project that we show whether we are able to act in solidarity in the interests of europe as a whole and how resistant we are to the influence of third parties.
i believe that the draft revision of the gas directive presented by the european commission, which envisages the inclusion of gas pipelines linking member states to third countries in the third energy package and thus concerns projects such as nord stream 2, is a very good step in the right direction and i hope that this revision will be brought to a positive conclusion quickly.
as legislators, however, we must remember that we are operating in a highly sensitive legislative environment, with many treaty constraints.
to work in this one world to alleviate dysfunction and at the same time prepare people with disabilities for active life in the natural environment.
but i'll point out that the strategy was created in 2003. the instrument shall be adopted in 2017. i'm pointing this out because sometimes getting to an instrument, getting something that's written in a certain document to work properly, takes a lot of time, a lot of effort, and in my opinion, mostly a waste of time.
i would like to thank in particular our excellent rapporteurs, mr dessa and mr de castro... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the general objective of this proposal is to improve the transparency and governance of eu vessels operating in non-eu waters and to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the stocks.
it should be stressed that freedom of the media and freedom of speech are fundamental parts of the creation of a sustainable democracy.
the agreement is in line with the epca (european petrochemical association) to strengthen relations in sectors such as sustainable development, foreign and defence policy, justice and trade.
the report highlights the large-scale nature of the relationship between the international workforce, environmental protection, human rights including healthcare, security, education, impartial institutions and the fight against corruption.
however, it should be stressed that cohesion policy, as the main investment policy of the european union, has already proven its effectiveness not only in terms of generating investment but also in promoting structural reforms, human capital development and the creation of sustainable jobs.
it should also be underlined that the reindustrialisation of europe should be a major priority of the fund, not just the proposed climate protection, and that sustainable investment in energy-intensive industries is necessary to achieve such a priority.
both ms mcallister's and ms gahlers reports stress that in an increasingly complex and volatile international environment, it is essential to combine effective eu projects and actions to tackle major challenges.
i believe that the criteria for participation and the governance of pesco must be negotiated to ensure that the countries have an equal say in the development of cooperation, in particular in military capacity building programmes and the sustainable development of the defence industry of all the eu countries.
it is what we call sustainable security, security with deep roots in societies and communities.
we would like to thank all of you who have spent energy and time as heads or observers of our election observation missions.
when we work for better institutions, or to open up the space for civil society or for free and independent media, we are also contributing to resilience and to sustainable security.
sustainable and sustainable growth can be achieved by combining policies that support investment and stimulate employment, while supporting initiatives that strengthen social cohesion and reduce regional disparities.
ensure that social protection systems are sustainable and equitable.
moreover, the european union should not only focus on achieving its own objectives, but also work with the un and other countries to achieve sustainable development in developing countries.
i would like to stress that for the commission the importance of achieving the sustainable development goals (sdgs) is beyond dispute.
it will include the reflection on the implementation of the sustainable development goals and of the paris agreement on climate change as well as the reflection on economic and societal changes.
the eurostat report on progress towards the eu's sustainable development goals shows that we have achieved a lot in this area, but there is still much to be done.
the increasingly successful implementation of goal 7, which is linked to reduced energy consumption and increased use of renewable sources, also provides a good outlook for the future.
the unsatisfactory performance in this and other areas shows that the eu and its countries must do everything possible to achieve the 2030 sustainable development goals, while supporting partner countries in this regard.
reducing emissions in the transport sector requires a huge effort, but it should be spread over years.
in many cases, the price for an overly ambitious and hastily implemented low-carbon transport policy will be paid by consumers in the cost of train or plane tickets, in the cost of running a private car, or in the price of every product that is brought into our suburban shops every day.
for many companies, which will have to replace entire fleets of used vehicles to meet strict climate standards, this can mean difficult costs to bear.
we are in favour of evolutionary climate solutions, adapted to the european economy and a reasonable timetable.
nguyen van hoa fell victim to what we saw in belarus over 30 years ago: you can't warn people even about natural disasters or ecological disasters that threaten people.