we need to have a road map where social europe is really at the heart to reconnect with citizens, making the best of the upcoming european pillar of social rights, and we need also to make sure that the growth and jobs strategy will be underpinned by a more powerful investment plan, aligned with sustainable development goals, and these goals should also inspire our development policy because this is the only way to go to the source of the oncoming migration wave.
on migration, there were positive steps in external partnerships, in particular the progress of the european fund for sustainable development, but there was no internal partnership for investment, growth and employment.
mr vice-president, i welcome the presentation of the report on the progress of renewable energy in the framework of the energy union.
and in that matrix, energy, for its role in economic competitiveness and the well-being of populations and its impact on the sustainability of the planet, is and will be at the center of geopolitics and geoeconomics for years to come.
the european union has been a leader in the energy transition and must continue to be so, combining efficiency, security, market integration, research, innovation and investment in infrastructure.
and renewable energy is the focus of differentiation.
but progress is not enough: 12% of total energy and 28.3% of electricity consumed is very little.
we must act faster, review the renewable energy directive, invest in decarbonising transport and invest in new interconnections.
this single energy market is an agenda that is inseparable from the objectives of the major european groups in the sector and the powers that defend their interests.
in essence, it advocates the liberalisation of the 'energy market', pressing member states to accelerate the process of privatising what is still public.
energy is a strategic sector, fundamental to the sovereign economic development of the country, supported by scientific knowledge, technological progress and environmental sustainability.
if we want to combat iuu fishing and slavery and promote respect for the environment and local communities in third countries, then we cannot allow inefficient european international agreements to continue for at least three more years.
the commission notes that the spanish authorities have not provided any evidence that the spanish authorities have not taken the necessary measures to ensure that the waste from the nuclear power plant in almaraz is not recycled.
portugal cannot become spain's nuclear waste dump.
if we are united, if we act in a coordinated way, we will win and defeat terrorism, we will win and succeed in mitigating climate change, we will win the fight against fraud, tax evasion, we will succeed in improving our welfare state and, never forget, we will maintain peace, democracy, freedom, the rule of law.
in addition to continuing to pursue these objectives, we must develop ambitious policies that translate into greater social cohesion and strengthen the economic sustainability of the european union and its member states, enhancing our autonomy in the face of possible external shocks that may arise.
it also implies the definition of policies based on the virtuous triangle of investment, which brings economic and social returns, the definition of structural reforms that ensure the sustainability of the european economic and social model and fiscal consolidation, ensuring a decent future for future generations.
today we can say that we listened to the citizens and that this agreement, under pressure from this parliament and civil society, respects the environmental, social and human values of the european union, our right to regulate in the public interest.
we also want to stress the need to maintain high standards in the areas of the environment, food safety, health and consumer rights, while respecting compliance with european rules and regulations.
however, i would like to stress that in environmental matters ceta should have been more ambitious and more in line with the commitments made in paris and even with the european project itself in terms of climate energy objectives, which aim at a green, sustainable economy, giving priority to renewable energy and the fight against climate change.
ceta should also promote sustainable agricultural practices more rigorously, as the link between energy, food and water is essential for citizens' well-being, poverty reduction and sustainable development.
this is the case with regard to investment and to completing the single market with the digital and the energy union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a dangerous farce about the allegedly amicable agreement between portugal and spain on the construction of a temporary nuclear waste storage facility at the almaraz plant, which have committed themselves to a constructive dialogue.
the ati is the very key to the survival of nuclear energy in spain, which, since 2010, should have been built next to madrid, but which the opposition of the government of castilla-la mancha has embargoed.
ironically, the spanish minister for the environment now promises full transparency to her portuguese neighbours and friends, in a rhetoric that convinces no one, claiming that the ati is a pool that has no major environmental impact and that it even improves the current situation.
i welcome, as the report says, the efforts of the european union in the world trade organisation to prevent harmful fisheries subsidies, which can undermine sustainable fisheries management and threaten the conservation of sensitive species.
mr president, mercury is one of the world's major pollutants with significant and lasting impacts on human health and the environment.
once in the environment, mercury accumulates along food chains through a process of bioaccumulation.
the restrictions on the use of mercury, on the import, export, storage and production of products and processes are therefore entirely justified, and we even think that it would have been possible to go further in this area, as the work done by the rapporteur and the initial position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety have shown.
it would also have been important to make progress in the field of environmental decontamination, an aspect which is neglected in the proposals under consideration.
mr president, this directive proposes to promote greater involvement of shareholders in long-term strategies, but in the face of the problem of investor myopia, which compromises sustainable growth strategies, it creates a purely cosmetic directive which will solve absolutely nothing.
mr president, commissioner, as regards the recycling targets for packaging and packaging waste, given the wide disparity in the starting points of the member states in relation to these targets, now revised upwards, which determines the need for different efforts to achieve the targets set, without compromising the objectives, some temporal flexibility in their implementation is justified, taking into account the diversity of situations.
extended producer responsibility schemes are appropriate both for the prevention of packaging waste and for the establishment of systems ensuring the recovery and/or collection of used packaging and packaging waste from the consumer or the waste stream, along with the reuse or recovery termino , including the recycling of packaging and packaging waste collected, in accordance with the waste management hierarchy.
the shadow rapporteurs proposed that the transition and energy efficiency be promoted, that landfilling be phased out until it is completely eliminated, that landfilling of waste that is separately collected be prohibited, that a framework programme be set up for a timetable of targets that further encourage and facilitate separate collection, sorting and recycling, that the transfer of waste within the european union and to third countries be monitored, that an impact study be carried out on the advisability of setting a target for the total amount of waste that can be landfilled, calculated per kilogram, per person and per year.
mr president, we are discussing today the circular economy package, which goes beyond the reductive approach to waste management and recycling, marking a time of redesign of processes, products and new business models.
the linear model paradigm no longer responds to the contemporary challenges of resource availability, environmental and social problems arising from the globalisation of markets, the conservation of natural capital, the reduction of emissions and the fight against climate change.
the landfill directive will clarify the waste hierarchy, which determines a priority order from prevention through preparation, to reuse, recycling and energy recovery to final disposal.
landfilling, although the worst option in the waste hierarchy, is still the most widely used waste disposal method in the european union.
we have to change the way we collect and manage our waste.
the transformation of waste into resources is crucial to increase resource efficiency and close the loop in a circular economy.
in addition to the thousands of deaths and the climate of widespread impunity, this violence is creating hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons in what is already a genuine migration crisis.
this is the case for indigenous peoples, whose rights to their ancestral territories continue to be disrespected, in parallel with the criminalization of environmental activism and the persecution of those who defend the rights of these minorities.
this revolution is an opportunity to reshape the society we live in, making it more people-centred, less unequal and more sustainable.
we need to make sure that europe remains a central pillar of the multilateral system and for international cooperation, but we also need to make sure that the next trade agreements will enforce our social and environmental standards.
sixty years after the signing of the treaty of rome, the treaty establishing the european economic community (eec) and the european atomic energy community, the eec/eu is facing the most serious crisis of its existence.
the legislation represents a major contribution to a modern trade policy, promoting values, shaping globalisation and ensuring that economic development is also sustainable.
madam president, the biodiversity of the arctic and the nature of its ecosystems make it critically important for the biological, chemical and physical balance of the entire planet.
the destruction of the boreal ice is already releasing methane from permafrost soils, thus amplifying global warming.
the arctic should be seen as our canary in a coal mine, as my colleague mrs schaldemose said, an alarm system to speed up action to reduce the human processes that amplify global warming.
three principles should emerge: protection, sustainable and precautionary use and international cooperation.
madam president, the times we live in require clear positions from all global actors and the european union in particular in the most sensitive areas for the sustainability of the planet.
the environmental conditions of the north seas are so sensitive and vulnerable that even a slight disturbance in their structure can have irreversible consequences.
the arctic region is already suffering the impacts of climate change, with glacier melt accelerating.
in the context of the energy transition in all areas of society, and in particular in transport, a cautious approach such as that proposed in the report under consideration seems to me to be the most appropriate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the social, environmental and economic challenges facing the arctic region are great: a small population spread over a large area, the dramatic effect of climate change, increasing competition for access to its natural and mineral resources and the opening up of new shipping routes and fishing areas.
scientific assessments show us clearly that this is a fragile and endangered ecosystem, that it has more than half of the world's wetlands, that its summer sea ice volume has decreased by more than 40 percent in 35 years, and that the temperature increase has been increasing at a rate approximately twice the global average.
ladies and gentlemen, climate change in the arctic is having a major impact on coastal regions worldwide, including in the european union.
coastal erosion and rising sea levels are just some of the environmental problems caused by climate change in the arctic, which are being felt drastically, in some cases, around the world.
i therefore consider this own-initiative report to be an important step towards the european union taking a leading role in safeguarding the environmental fragility of the arctic and the fundamental rights of indigenous peoples and local populations.
madam president, i would also like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work and express my solidarity with the approach he has put forward in his report, which is to stress the need for scientific data to be able to assess the impacts of fishing, not only in terms of the reproductive capacity of stocks, in terms of quantity, but also and above all in terms of the environmental sustainability of this economic activity, which is so necessary for economic development and so necessary for the livelihood of millions of families around the world.
i would like to say that sustainability must necessarily include the environmental issue.
there is no sustainability if we don't protect the environment and if we don't all get involved in this project and this work to protect the environmental quality of the oceans.
only then will fisheries be sustainable, only then will fisheries be able to fulfil their economic objective.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
i think it is not serious to say that it depends on the quality of the question, because it is often the citizens who are able to identify the problems of non-application of community legislation, for example in the field of the environment, and we are their spokesmen.
madam president, commissioner, palm oil is widely used in the food industry and also in the cosmetics and biofuels sectors, and the truth is that over the last 20 years its production has become unsustainable and has resulted in massive deforestation, the loss of natural habitats, the near extinction of many species and the consequent increase in greenhouse gas emissions.
it should take a leading role in combating wasteful and abusive consumption of palm oil and adopt minimum sustainability criteria for its certified palm oil imports, and also phase out the use of these vegetable oils in biofuel production, increase traceability and labelling, and inform consumers.
the report stresses that respect for fundamental human rights, forest protection and sustainable palm oil production are compatible objectives.
the european union must now strive to ensure that by 2020 all palm oil consumed in europe is sustainable.
it also highlighted the member states' lethargy in evaluating an inadequate emissions verification system.
a new type-approval system and new limits for vehicle emissions are now a top priority for the european commission and the member states.
we will only be able to restore citizens' and the market's confidence in this sector with a robust, transparent, predictable and sustainable regulatory framework that ensures a high level of safety and protection of health, the environment and consumers.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is an appropriate response to the defence of the internal market and consumer rights, allowing vehicles, including those already in circulation, to meet safety and environmental requirements.
the unprecedented scandal over the manipulation of car emissions tests has revealed flaws in the approval system for new cars.
the rationalization and strengthening of the competences on car emissions, greater european supervision of the competent national authorities, the creation of vehicle approval procedures and tests, the existence of tighter market controls and a strict exchange of information between the european union and the member states, and a system of dissuasive sanctions, will allow more effective results in the defence of consumer rights.
the success of the implementation and enforcement of car emissions legislation depends on the active involvement of the european institutions, economic operators and, in particular, the automotive industry and citizens.
the adoption of this report gives the european union an objective opportunity to take urgent measures and actions to ensure that all palm oil consumed in europe is sustainable by 2020.
mr president, mr dijsselbloem's offensive language proves that he is not fit to be president of the eurogroup and that it makes no difference to mr schäuble's positions.
the first big difference: respecting the social rights of workers, their wages, and using this as a lever to increase domestic demand, while promoting exports; second: ensuring that reforms affect not only the labour market but, above all, education, innovation, better services provided to the population; third: achieving investment at the top of the priorities by leveraging a future for the country towards a new energy and digital transition; and fourth, not subordinating growth to fiscal consolidation, on the contrary, more growth facilitates the process of fiscal consolidation.
regardless of the doubts that remain about this proposal in terms of exemptions, secondary emissions or the lack of sanctioning provisions to enforce compliance, we remain deeply disagree ing with the priorities of this european union.
the climate of political polarization that is currently being experienced in venezuela has reached such a point that it can only be clarified through elections.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
these include the pro-active participation of belarus in the eastern partnership and in the interim phase on modernisation issues; the resumption of the eu-belarus human rights dialogue; the start of negotiations on visa facilitation, readmission agreements and a mobility partnership; the active pursuit of cooperation in the harmonisation of digital markets; and the signature of a cooperation agreement on an early warning mechanism in the energy sector.
renewing them is about ensuring the safety of those who work at sea, it is about improving the quality of fish, it is about protecting the marine ecosystem.
we will also continue to support measures that favour small-scale fisheries in the interests of environmental, social and economic sustainability.
but given maduro's demonstrated ability to manipulate electoral acts, and in the current climate of repression, how can we believe that this electoral process can offer any democratic guarantees?
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that sustainable fishing using traditional fishing gear is the basis for the prosperity of coastal communities and contributes to food security in the outermost regions.
in a natural context marked by insularity, a tropical climate and a rugged volcanic terrain, these regions are very far from the european continent, as is the case in my country, the azores and madeira.
for all these reasons, i think it is very important that the commission proposes binding legislation in the clothing sector to ensure that the european union and its trading partners and operators fulfil their obligation to respect human rights and the highest social and environmental standards.
this report shows that europe recognises the need for a level playing field to protect workers from environmental and social dumping.
at the same time, we must export the values of democracy, respect for human rights, the defence of social and environmental rights.
it has embargoed imports of moldovan wine, meat, fruit and vegetables and threatened to extend the ban to other products, increased the prices of energy supplies, threatened to impose visa restrictions on thousands of moldovans working in russia.
in this way we can also devote more energy to dealing with our own future.
then we also need to address our citizens’ concerns when we set new trade agreements in order to protect proper social and environmental standards.
this sustainability pact was signed in 2013, following the tragic accident that occurred at rana plaza in april of that year.
the european commission has my full support in ensuring that union fishermen have equitable and environmentally sustainable access to svalbard waters.
investments should focus on areas that can produce multiplier effects on employment and growth, such as investments in innovation, education and sustainable energy.
it is also an opportunity for european research centres and industry to lead a new technological era, with the energy transition (to electric mobility) and the new digital society as its pillars.
the first key point is that for this consensus on development, it is essential that countries do not enter into a purely nationalist logic and, unfortunately, what we see is that the united states has still today given a signal on sustainable development by being only focused on its national agenda.
without it, there can be no good governance, and we cannot achieve the millennium development goals and sustainable development.
the world has committed itself to the sustainable development goals.
sustainable development is based on three pillars that cannot be ranked.
at the important meeting in new york next week, a number of states and organizations will commit to the sustainable use of the oceans.
we know that the united states of america is blocking agreements and decisions committed to sustainable development.
the 2030 agenda for sustainable development proposes 17 sustainable development goals, amongst them sdg 14 – the oceans goal – which aims to conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development.
eighty per cent of marine pollution and litter in oceans comes from land-based sources, and maritime co2 emissions are projected to increase by 50% to 250% in the period up to 2050. put simply, oceans, seas and coastal areas form an integrated and essential component of the earth’s ecosystem.
the ocean is a primary regulator of climate and weather.
i believe that today, with the united states drifting away, the european union should play an important role, on the basis of its experience, and not only through its environmental policy, in developing a sustainable approach to ocean management.
with regard to an instrument on biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction (bbnj), a lot of progress has been made, and in the coming weeks one of the final preparatory meetings will take place.
regarding encouraging blue growth, we recognise the ‘blue opportunities’ from the oceans, but we also recognise the environmental responsibilities that go along with this, and these environmental responsibilities come into play when we talk about deep-sea mining, drilling and so on.
one word of caution: we do, more than anything, want to support small—scale fisheries, but unfortunately – and i say this with a little sadness – small-scale does not always mean sustainable.
i think we have to focus on what is sustainable and what is not rather than looking at what is big or small.
very often, when we talk about ecosystems and biodiversity, we are referring to our biodiversity and ecosystems on land, yet we know that the oceans are home to more than 70% of the planet’s global ecosystem.
sustainable development goal 14, as defined by the un, concerns the conservation and sustainable use of oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development.
without accepting that the eu and its policies are being shaped by a sustainability paradigm, on the contrary, we follow the concern that is at the root of this debate, which we consider necessary.
we have an opportunity to reposition the european union in the world as a technologically leading and inclusive project and we cannot afford to waste it.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution in recognition of the fact that the european union should take a leading position in the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
adopted by the un in september 2015, it constitutes an ambitious framework for achieving sustainable development and eradicating poverty.
in this decision, the fact that we are living in a time of increasing uncertainty and ambiguity, which leaves a lot to be desired about the future of some of the consensus already reached on energy and climate objectives, which aims at a green, sustainable economy, giving priority to the fight against climate change.
the world has changed since the last european consensus on development was adopted in 2005. today we are faced with demographic changes worldwide, associated with economic, social and environmental changes, and the levels of poverty and inequality, as well as their geographical distribution, have changed.
this new consensus aims to find lasting solutions to complex global challenges and the european union and its member states should be firmly committed to implementing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, promoting the universal values of democracy, good governance, the rule of law and human rights for all.
sustainability, integration and solidarity are the hallmarks of this union.
this is a declaration that stresses environmental sustainability, social cohesion and viable economic perspectives.
the plan also deals with pollution and transport and their impact on fishing resources.
our joint political partnership has the power to create a healthy environment, a thriving blue economy and a sustainable fishing sector in the mediterranean.
measures are needed to safeguard small-scale fisheries by involving fishermen and their associations and unions in decision-making processes, promoting measures, including the channelling of european funds, for the renewal and modernisation of fleets, improving working conditions, contributing to economic and environmental sustainability, including through the reduction of fishing effort.
inherent in the definition of sustainable development is the need not to hierarchise the three pillars that underpin it.
so environment, economy and society have to be equated in sync.
in the mediterranean fisheries, the environmental pillar has been ignored for too long technical measures such as operating times or mesh sizes have been tested for years without success.
now is the time to act and protect the environmental pillar that i think is the weakest of this triad.
i am also referring to environmental disasters and to contamination by biotoxins.
this conference aimed to support the creation of conditions for the implementation of the 14th un sustainable development goal, dedicated to the sustainability of the oceans.
the european parliament delegation participated in several bilateral meetings with representatives of the world bank, the united nations environment programme, the convention on biological diversity and the delegations of the usa, china and brazil, in the framework of improving coordination and cooperation between international organisations and creating partnerships in the field of oceans.
193 un member states have approved by acclamation the declaration 'our ocean, our future: call for action', which commits all countries to work towards the sustainability of the oceans.
the european union cannot hesitate to take the lead in the process of harmonisation and combating climate change.
this regulation sets binding greenhouse gas emission targets for member states covering sectors of the economy not covered by the ets.
these sectors account for almost 60% of total emissions in the eu in 2014 and the setting of national targets was done with a fair process.
this is a shift that will provide opportunities for jobs, growth and investment for europe, while mitigating climate change and requiring changes in behaviour, business incentives and investment.
we have made a clear choice to lead the transition to a sustainable economy and society.
mr president, commissioner, the paris agreement provides that the parties take measures to conserve and, if necessary, to strengthen sinks and reservoirs of greenhouse gases, including forests.
this proposal is an integral part of the implementation of the european union's commitment under the paris agreement to reduce emissions across the economy.
ladies and gentlemen, we are in a period of great uncertainty, of incomprehensible denial of the obvious effects of climate change by those who, like the united states, are the biggest contributors to emissions into the atmosphere.
the union's top priority is to create a resilient energy union that prioritises energy efficiency and provides secure, sustainable energy at prices that are affordable for citizens, as well as to implement policies to reduce emissions and replace fossil fuels.
i believe that only through ambitious climate action can we contribute to rescuing a planet that is sustainable for life in time.
under the precautionary principle, they will continue to press the commission not to renew the authorisation of glyphosate in the light of the overriding public interest of protecting the environment and public health.
we also need to be prepared to open a new generation of trade agreements, pushing for sustainable development all over the world.
this first vote we have taken in parliament not only calls into question the paris agreement, but also european legislation itself on combating climate change.
that is why i call on this parliament, the european commission and the council to implement the paris agreement properly, without any trickery in accounting for emissions and without any hypocrisy.
lulucf should be a dossier that transposes the paris agreement and not one that takes us backwards on climate change.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union, as a customer of 60% of bangladesh's garment exports, has an increased responsibility towards bangladesh in promoting ethical forms of sustainable production and consumption.
the digital union is important, the energy union is essential and in this way too, in addition to promoting the internal market, in addition to promoting interconnectivity and efficiency, we would be contributing to objectives for the whole of the european union.
a system that either grows and accumulates or dies is by definition not sustainable.
the conversion of waste into resources may be more or less but it is never total.
we need to find sustainable solutions, and this could be one of them.
they eliminate any reference to public policies of services such as education or health, they take a mercantilist view of rights whether in social protection, health, education, water, sanitation, energy, transport, among others.
this is the case with the steps taken in the field of financial transparency and the sound financial functioning of the internal market and in the clean energy and circular economy packages.
progressive forces, and i believe the majority of citizens, are sure that we need to have a new growth and jobs strategy driven by sustainable development goals.
we also know that in order to really respect the paris climate deal we need to translate our commitments into a real investment policy supported by the union budget, and we know that in order to cope with the current refugee crisis the real solution is a european asylum system, which requires full reform of the dublin regime.
it also means having a forward-looking community budget, counting on our own resources, based on corporate taxation, and based on energy emissions.
we also need to strengthen democratic control, including so that our member states do not continue to foolishly spend taxpayers' money on duplications, overlaps and waste.
i am in favour of a structured dialogue for this purpose, which is to have the best budget for the european union after 2020. talking about the budget is talking to the citizens; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment policy, the environment and the environment policy.
there are still important open issues and parliament will remain vigilant until the end of the negotiations, demanding more transparency, starting with the disclosure of a negotiating mandate and the full safeguarding of our environmental, social and labour values and standards, in the framework of a strong chapter on sustainable development.
take a mercantilist view of rights whether in social protection, health, education, water, sanitation, energy, transport, among others, whoever wants them to pay for them!
that is why your contribution, prime minister, will be very important in making the best of the digital revolution, as we believe that many benefits can come from this, and i would say that, more than just a digital single market, we need a digital union, making sure that everybody can benefit from the digital revolution when it comes to quality of public services, when it comes to full access for all citizens and when comes to the transformation of people’s working conditions in the digital environment.
we believe that, in negotiating these agreements, we should pay attention to the union’s commitment to the sustainable development goals.
europe is a space of solidarity and therefore the european union has a responsibility to deliver on the united nations sustainable development goals, in particular goal 3, which includes the goal of eradicating the hiv and tuberculosis epidemics by 2030 and combating hepatitis.
mr president, the innovative and open european fund for sustainable development, by mobilising eur 44 billion for africa and the eastern neighbourhood, will enable the beneficiary territories to achieve more economic growth, more employment and stability.
sustainable projects should create jobs, especially for young people.
mr president, the union's environmental and climate diplomacy has been demonstrating a leading role in the implementation of the global 2030 agenda and in the commitment to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development within the framework of the 17 sustainable development goals and 169 associated targets, which cover all aspects of union policy, and in the implementation of the paris agreement.
i was appointed as shadow rapporteur for this report on european union action for sustainability, which was an opportunity for the european parliament to anchor its vision and agenda in european action for sustainability.
we need the definition of the overall strategy for implementing the 2030 agenda, covering both domestic and external policy areas, a detailed timetable up to 2030, an effective and comprehensive monitoring and tracking system and specific progress indicators on the internal implementation of the sustainable development goals in the european union.
the report focused on the fight against climate change and the decarbonisation of the economy, the protection of the oceans, the circular economy and resource efficiency, the promotion of science, technology and innovation, sustainable agriculture, nature conservation, the integration of the 2030 agenda into the european semester, the fight against inequalities between and among member states and the protection of the most vulnerable and marginalised.
we recognise that the achievement of the sustainable development goals will require the participation of all stakeholders in the european union and therefore urge the european commission to ensure that the multilateral platform announced in its communication becomes a model of good practice to facilitate the planning, implementation, monitoring and review of the 2030 agenda.
i also believe that the achievement of the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda can be the legacy that europe will leave to future generations.
i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that this report shows that this house has an undeniable role to play in creating a better and more sustainable future, and i would like to thank seb dance for all the commitment and effort he has devoted, especially together with the shadow rapporteurs, to the development of this work, which is a very fine piece of work.
mr president, the sustainable development goals, 17 goals comprising 169 targets and more than 300 indicators set by the united nations in rio in 2012, justify this debate.
these are generally relevant and fair objectives, although a certain bias is evident, for example in over-valuing the role of economic growth, since, as regards the role of the european union and advertising aside, consideration of its general guidelines and sectoral policies leads to the conclusion that they will not result in the desired sustainability.
sustainability requires breaking with free and unregulated trade, with the generalization of intensive production models, with the deregulation of the financial sector and the free movement of capital, with the erosion of social and labour rights, with the attack on public services, just to give a few examples.
it is a question of putting aside nationalist selfishness and finding a solution which is more efficient from the economic, environmental and parliamentary point of view.
the monthly travel to strasbourg of meps, assistants, interpreters and journalists costs around €114 million and represents additional emissions of 19 000 tonnes of co2 per year.
mr president, commissioner, the outermost regions are in a unique situation within the european union, in a natural context marked by insularity, tropical climate and rugged volcanic terrain.
the octs are privileged areas with a potential for activities related to the growth of tourism, blue growth, the exploitation of renewable energies, the development of the circular economy and the valorisation of their rich natural heritage and vast biodiversity.
i therefore believe that the portuguese, azores and madeira ors represent a unique opportunity for a more sustainable europe by strengthening its maritime vision and dimension.
i therefore believe that the union must allow the octs to overcome their difficulties and to take advantage of their unique assets and assets, and at the same time that the member states must take greater responsibility for the use of the union's available instruments to enable them to ensure the sustainable development of the octs.
it is necessary to ensure that the ors have control over the entirety of their exclusive economic zone, to support research and development in areas such as renewable energy, biodiversity, among others, and among other measures that can and should be integrated into this action plan.
in addition, the regional funds also play an important role in addressing climate change adaptation, disaster risk prevention and management, and environmental protection in all our member states.
the fight against terrorism and the effects of climate change are two new challenges which require joint work by the european union, joint work in emergency response where available means and readiness for action must be strengthened, but also, and above all, joint work in cooperation for the prevention and recovery of the economic and social fabric and the destroyed heritage.
i would like to say a word to the portuguese firefighters who make their sacrifice every day a means of helping others, and i would like to stress, in relation to the president of the commission, that it is not enough for us to discuss the issue of global warming, which is real, we need a european forestry policy adapted to the needs of each country in europe, especially the countries of southern europe, the most affected by climate issues and those which contribute least to the worsening of the phenomenon.
every year, in the face of these tragedies, we hear the same speech in portugal, the same promises and justifications, but the truth is that governments succeed each other, the wrong policies remain the same and in the end the drama of the victims is always the same: deaths, loss of entire working lives and irreparable environmental damage.
although no one can say for sure what caused the fire, the fact is that the extreme weather conditions in pedrógão, with humidity below 30%, temperatures above 40 degrees and winds exceeding 50 kilometers per hour, are conditions that cannot be dissociated from global climate change.
we appreciate the ready support of the commissioner and other european partners, the spanish firefighters in particular, but we need more european support, because there are problems beyond the prevention of disasters of this kind which have to do with structural issues of land management, of the management of our forests, of preventing the depopulation of the interior of the country because otherwise we cannot fight this type of forest fires and especially when we are experiencing the impact of climate change.
this policy is not just a waste of public money, it is a betrayal of the values that should guide our foreign and development policy to make a difference for eritreans and that implies promoting democratic transformation in eritrea.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report, of which i was a shadow rapporteur, because i believe that although sustainable development has long been at the heart of the european project, we still have a long way to go in building a better future for our children and our planet.
the proposals in this report have the common objective of reinforcing the core of the european union's overall strategy and provide an opportunity for the european parliament to definitively and decisively anchor its vision, its agenda, on european action for sustainability.
i believe that this house has an indispensable role to play in creating a better and more sustainable future for europe and this report can be seen as a key part of that design.
mr president, climate change is increasingly present in our lives.
commissioner, this proposal determines how carbon dioxide emissions from the agricultural and forestry sector should be incorporated into european climate policy in order to contribute to the reduction of the european union's emissions and is of great relevance in the context of international climate change negotiations because of the political signals it sends about the ambition and determination of the european union in combating climate change.
forests are closely linked to climate change.
the climate impact of past changes in soil and soil cover is estimated to have accounted for about 40 percent of the total warming between 1850 and 2010, an astronomical figure.
it is therefore essential that forests are managed sustainably, maintaining their biological diversity, their productivity, their regenerative capacity, their capacity to fulfil ecological, economic and social functions at local, national and global levels, now and in the future.
after one of the hottest summers in history and the severe fires that have hit europe - and my own country in particular - it is important to stress the importance of forests in the fight against climate change.
i believe that this proposal - in line with a climate policy that recognises the role of forests and soil as key actors in the fight against climate change - can be the only way to move safely towards a resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy that supports its decarbonisation dimension.
we must go further, by mobilising the european union's solidarity fund, adapting its regulation so that it can act now, in order to minimise an impending social, economic and environmental catastrophe.
madam president, on 23 august last the brazilian government published a decree providing for the extinction of the cobre and associates national reserve, a territory in the amazon of some 4 million hectares which includes nine protected areas including state forests, ecological reserves and indigenous lands, which immediately gave rise to the massacre of isolated indians in the amazon due to gold prospecting and the slaughter of birds, as reported by the national indian foundation (funai).
ladies and gentlemen, at a time when negotiations between the european union and mercosur are gaining momentum - and could lead to a political agreement before the end of this year - the european union cannot but urge the brazilian authorities to preserve the indigenous environmental reserves of one of the largest continuous stretches of tropical forest on the planet.
we must be the ones to decide the future of technology and, above all, we must be the ones to determine what we can do with this technology to make a society more decent, more just, safer, more sustainable, with more opportunities and a better quality of life for people, and this choice is a challenge in which we can and must involve european citizens.
if we want, and i know we do, to reclaim our global voice and affirm an agenda of sustainability and humanism, we need to work together and give clear signals of a strategic alliance.
the growing protectionism in the world calls for the strengthening of the union's mutually beneficial bilateral and multilateral economic partnerships in the region, but, beyond the trade side, it is important, in a political context, to strengthen interparliamentary cooperation and to value the continued promotion of democratic values and human rights, including the defence of the property rights of the indigenous peoples of brazil on the lands they have traditionally occupied, the fight against climate change and cooperation in the field of research and innovation.
the strengthening of cooperation between the two regional blocs therefore plays a key role in diversifying the economies of both regions and in promoting a more sustainable, more democratic and more inclusive development.
there has been a great wave of fires in portugal this year, with tragic consequences, there have been floods all over europe, even now in poland with tragic consequences, we saw last year several earthquakes in italy, also this year in greece, we know that with climate change there will be many of these accidents.
i stress the importance attached to deepening participatory democracy and transparency, to the need to build a social pillar suited to the new challenges of the global economy, to european leadership in sustainability and clean and smart mobility systems, to the realisation of the energy union and the digital union, to the extension of the euro to all the countries of the union, to the completion of the banking union and the economic and financial union, to the development of the security union and the defence union and to the new generation trade policies to strengthen the eu's global assertiveness.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is a key element in the realisation of the 2030 climate and energy framework and a crucial step towards a real resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy.
climate change is one of the greatest environmental, social and economic threats facing the planet and humanity.
greenhouse gas emissions from aviation activities are increasing significantly.
it is estimated that, in the absence of further measures, carbon dioxide emissions from international aviation will almost quadruple by 2050 compared to 2010 levels.
ladies and gentlemen, this resolution contributes to the fulfilment of the paris agreement and the ambitious target set by the international civil aviation organisation of global co2 emissions from international aviation not exceeding 2020 levels.
the european union continues to lead the fight against climate change and this resolution is an example of this.
it's true that fires produce emissions.
it is true that we have to promote biodiversity.
but it's also true that cutting wood, cutting, cutting and cutting for business also produces emissions.
however, it is also true that we cannot entirely agree that the focus of this extension is to support 10 political priorities of the european commission such as the european semester, the europe 2020 strategy, the better regulation initiative and the european energy union, on which we have many reservations.
climate change is one of the greatest environmental, social, economic threats facing the planet and humanity.
every day we see examples of severe weather events that demonstrate this truth to all of us: hurricanes of increasing intensity, cyclones of maximum intensity that are becoming more frequent, and the warming of the oceans, with the result that some 200 million climate refugees will be created in the coming years.
climate change is a challenge and the european union must be prepared for this challenge.
we hear a lot about sustainability in this house.
it's almost a necessary word for any politically correct discourse, especially when it comes to environmental issues or natural resource exploitation.
however, when the time comes to decide, we find that the votes have to please the voters already today, forgetting that sustainability is not even for tomorrow, it is for the day after tomorrow, or another day, it should be forever.
it's easy: sustainable fishing limits apply.
the multiannual plans, and in this case the multiannual plan for the north sea, must include exploitation limits that do not exceed the maximum sustainable yield.
if we want to be truly sustainable, this is the way.
if we do not follow this path then, in spite of the truth, let us stop saying that we want sustainability.
but we also believe, as i said, that there can be no sustainable development with no human rights and no democratic guarantees, so we are using, and will continue to use, all the available channels to ask, and work, for a substantial change in the current political trends.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a building.
two months after the approval of the budgetary increase for the solidarity fund, it is important to establish the amounts actually made available to the country, as well as to understand how they were mobilized and how support was given to victims and populations, on the one hand, and to structural ecological recovery, on the other.
this transposition of iccat provisions into european law promotes the use of artisanal fishing gear with a lower environmental impact and local vessels.
as the regulation clearly provides, member states are called upon to use transparent and objective criteria, including environmental, social and economic criteria, in allocating opportunities and are required to grant incentives to eu fishing vessels using selective fishing gear or fishing techniques with a reduced impact on the environment.
we must maintain the european union's leading position in defending sustainable development and combating iuu fishing.
the use of these devices was rampant in the past but remains excessive at present and, most importantly, these devices continue to be used without the corresponding environmental impact study.
the sustainability of marine biological resources should be a major concern for all of us.
however, i believe that this sustainability must not be blind, that is to say, it must also take account of long-term economic and social sustainability, and in this connection i cannot fail to mention the situation of fishermen and their families, who are in a situation of crisis, of lack of income, even if they are working harder and risking their lives.
here too, year after year, both fishermen and our tuna industry see fewer and fewer resources, less tuna, putting in question the sustainability of this important activity in my region, the azores, thus threatening hundreds of direct and indirect jobs because, at a certain point, either for climatic reasons, which led to the change of the migratory routes of the tuna, or for human reasons, with aggressive fishing techniques by others that greatly reduce the individuals who manage to make this migration.
the second message is that we are asking you to commit to taking account of the artisanal fleets, especially those in the outermost regions, such as the azores, because we have been an example at european and world level of the sustainability of tuna fishing.
in the azores, tuna are caught by hook and line and, in general, live bait, a highly sustainable fishing technique with little environmental impact and very selective.
for all the reasons set out above, the increasing adoption of information collected and managed by iccat is encouraged in order to adopt appropriate management measures that safeguard the interests of operators in the sector who practice highly sustainable fisheries, as is the specific case of the azores.
we believe that the proposals as they have been put forward by iccat should be maintained, with management measures ensuring fishing opportunities, with particular attention to small-scale and artisanal fishing, with a view to the sustainability of tuna stocks.
they carry out relevant activities in the social and environmental field, safeguard the interests of disabled, vulnerable and marginalised people, social movements and indigenous peoples.
secondly, it is important to continue investing in technologies that enable net-zero emissions through carbon capture strategies, which is an area with huge potential for sustainable job creation.
we must therefore take the european ecological transition seriously and i would like to emphasize the role of the social economy in this challenge.
thirdly, we must have a strategy for world agriculture which respects the use of water and soil resources, their re-use and the sustainable exploitation of forests, as we do at european level.
fourthly, and lastly, the poorest developing countries, or even island countries, are unfortunately the most affected by climate change, as we have recently seen with the devastation caused by hurricane maria in one of the most remote regions of europe, martinique and guadeloupe.
climate change is the most important challenge facing humanity, and it's no longer just about forecasts, it's something people are experiencing on a daily basis.
in portugal, for example, the brutal wave of forest fires this summer is just one of many examples that we face on a daily basis as a result of climate change.
combating the retrograde vision of the us administration, harnessing the digital energy transition to create new opportunities for sustainable growth and quality jobs, tackling inequalities and improving living conditions on the planet.
mr president, commissioner, climate change is one of the greatest environmental, social and economic threats facing the planet and humanity.
the signing of the paris agreement was a historic moment around a consensus in the fight against climate change.
but if this announcement can make the fight against climate change more difficult, i am certain that there is no turning back in this fight and that the global transition to clean energy is here to stay.
the success of cop23 implies strong political will and robust climate diplomacy.
the european union must continue to lead through its ambitious climate policies and support for those who are particularly vulnerable in order to build strong and sustainable economies.
finally, on fiscal discipline, let me be clear: of course we need common fiscal discipline in the eurozone to make it sustainable, but it is also clear that, in order to have this common fiscal discipline, if we do not want to hinder growth and growth potential, we need to complement national fiscal discipline – which should be intelligent – with a proper fiscal capacity, as all other monetary zones in the world have.
no monetary zone in the world has existed and been sustainable without a fiscal capacity.
given the importance of the subject - which you have rightly underlined - we wanted to give this debate a certain visibility and a certain projection, which is not guaranteed by putting it at 10 or 11 p.m. on wednesday, and hence our proposal to change it to the first item on the agenda for the afternoon, that is to say, at 3 p.m.
mr president, commissioner, any intervention in the field of the marketing of fertilising products must not lose sight of the fact that the dominant european agriculture is moving away from fundamental aspects of a sustainable production model, which will not be alien to the policies and guidelines prevailing in the european union, such as the cap, which need a profound modification.
these criteria would be expected to ensure high standards of quality, safety and protection of both the environment and public health, to stimulate or at least not to compromise product and process innovation, to be in line with the best available technical and scientific knowledge and not to benefit certain types of economically powerful interests and operators to the detriment of others.
while it is true that fertilisers provide significant benefits in terms of crop yield, it is equally true that we cannot ignore the significant environmental, public health and food safety challenges associated with the use of fertilisers.
the main objective of the report is to encourage the large-scale production of fertilisers in the union from organic or national secondary raw materials in accordance with the circular economy model by converting waste into nutrients for crops.
however, the current regulation does not address environmental issues associated with contamination of soil, inland water and marine waters and, ultimately, foodstuffs.
if we want europe to promote a better world order, then yes, we need to use trade agreements, but we need to push the sustainable development goals together with these agreements.
fertilizers provide significant benefits in terms of crop yield, but we cannot forget that there are important environmental, public health and food safety challenges associated with their use.
the current regulation does not address environmental issues associated with the contamination of soil, inland water and marine waters and, ultimately, the food chain.
the proposal introduces harmonised cadmium limits for phosphate fertilisers with a view to minimising the negative impact of fertiliser use on the environment and human health.
the kind of trade agreements that we are pushing for are those which should be inspired by sustainable development goals, and all these must be translated into to the european budget.
the needs are clear and obvious: strengthening cohesion funds to counter growing asymmetries, defending democracy within the framework of state sovereignty, advocating progressive development policies that respond to the needs of the people and use resources and capacities for their own benefit, support for countries affected by disasters and targeted at prevention mechanisms, supporting the recovery of productive sectors in countries like portugal with support for fisheries, agriculture and industry, support that is channelled primarily to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, support and policies that favour necessary public policies in strategic sectors such as energy, transport and communications, support and policies based on the provision of free and quality public services in sectors such as health, education and science, social justice, support for research and capacity building, support for collective bargaining, reduction of production costs, and policies that promote increased social security, increased production capacity, and increased social security, and support for job creation.
investment in disaster prevention, the environment, science and technology.
investment in disaster prevention, the environment, science and technology.
on the other hand, it is also urgent to strengthen their monitoring in order to avoid mechanisms that falsify employment figures by means of traineeships and other training programmes, creating the illusion of a recovery that is in fact too fragile, without guarantees of sustainability.
this is an essential condition for defending the european social model, which requires the sustainability of our social security systems.
it is precisely in defending this european social model, in balance with economic sustainability, that the european semester should be based.
australia and new zealand are important allies and partners of the union, sharing the same values as us, including the ambition for a high level of social and environmental protection and a regulated global trading system.
we therefore have all the conditions to conclude progressive, new-generation agreements which promote sustainable development, and it is for the european parliament to ensure transparency but also to safeguard european interests, including in sensitive areas which obviously need to be negotiated, such as geographical indications, the meat, milk, cereals and sugar sectors.
climate change makes weather conditions more extreme in natural disasters more often.
in addition, in portugal, the operational programme for sustainability and resource efficiency provides the possibility to finance a range of investments to strengthen disaster resilience, prevention and preparedness.
madam president, the tragedy of the forest fires in portugal is due to the convergence of several factors, including the massive predominance of eucalyptus, the ineffectiveness of firefighting agencies, climate change and the policies of successive governments, which have encouraged depopulation and abandonment of the interior of the country.
madam president, the portuguese and galician people, in mourning and bewilderment, are confronted with the result of decades of poor forest management, land degradation, depopulation of the countryside and abandonment of rural populations, capture by the state for its own interests and disinvestment in prevention and civil protection, aggravated by the impact of climate change.
impressively, posidonia oceanica meadows alone bury some two 2 000 tonnes of carbon each year; it would be interesting to know how this phenomenal seaweed compares with our carbon emissions saving targets or the shift to electric vehicles.
other measures, such as national protection measures and environmental targets, are set under the marine strategy and water framework directives.
the commission expects further information to be provided by member states in 2018, when they will report on their efforts to achieve good environmental status in marine waters.
the decline in the population of neptune grass is usually linked to coastal development, mechanical damage from illegal trawling, anchoring, beach nourishment, dredging, eutrophication and other forms of pollution.
the emff also provides financial support for the protection and restoration of marine biodiversity and ecosystems, which includes a common monitoring and evaluation system.
the commission, in cooperation with the member states, will undertake a review of the performance of the operational programmes, the performance review, in each member state in 2019. given its phenomenal ability to absorb inconceivable volumes of carbon from the air, the returns on investing in further conservation delivers an extraordinary public good and a real contribution to shifting to the low-carbon economy.
when we talk about protecting these critical habitats for the conversion of carbon dioxide into oxygen, we have to talk about seagrasslands, which are vital ecosystems in terms of biodiversity and which provide many relevant services to communities and the economy.
the oral question is in defence of the marine grass posidonia oceanica, endemic to the mediterranean and one of the most productive and most important species for the maintenance of biodiversity.
however, this important species of slow growth and regeneration has been declining dramatically in recent decades due to human activity, eutrophication and other forms of pollution, as well as as a result of climate change and damage caused by anchoring vessels.
however, a strong and sustainable blue economy depends on the preservation of marine and coastal ecosystems and our ability to restore them.
i therefore consider it essential to ask you, commissioner, the following questions: what is the current situation and future evolution of marine coastal habitats, in particular with regard to the marine strategy framework directive monitoring indicators associated with biodiversity and seabed integration?
how does the commission assess the investments already made through the various research and conservation programmes in the framework of the protection of ocean posidonia, and what programmes and funding does the commission intend to put in place to protect and restore ocean posidonia in order to increase its resilience and minimise the impact of climate change on this species?
commissioner, we urgently need robust measures if we want a sustainable future for the mediterranean and i therefore believe that the answer to these questions is essential if we are to devise a coherent strategy for the protection of the mediterranean ecosystem.
commissioner, as has been said here, coastal marine habitats are fundamental to the conversion of carbon dioxide into oxygen, to the productivity of marine resources, to the protection of coastal areas and to the other essential ecological services they provide to the planet.
the european union has, it is true, invested significantly in funding scientific studies and programmes for the conservation and restoration of the marine environment.
the case of ocean posidonia is just one example of how disruption of the marine environment can have significant impacts on an entire ecosystem, so it is of crucial importance to monitor and evolve key species, such as this seaweed.
monitoring the evolution of the conservation status of key species for conservation, the impact of investments in the conservation and restoration of marine habitats and improving their protection are key to effective and continuous protection of the marine environment.
climate change, which has also been mentioned here, is a reality, we all feel the impact of this change on a daily basis, so the protection and recovery of species such as the ocean posidonia, which play important roles in coastal protection and other ecological services, is essential.
the protection and recovery of habitats and species are actions that cannot be dissociated from the commitments to reduce carbon emissions in order to overcome climate change.
the european union, it must be admitted, has been at the forefront and committed to combating climate change.
i conclude by stressing the need to improve knowledge and monitoring of ocean posidonia, but also of other key species crucial for the conservation and preservation of marine habitats, which provide so many fundamental ecological services to the planet.
mr president, coastal marine habitats and the species of fauna and flora that occur there are of high ecological and conservation value.
the mediterranean populations of oceanic posidonia, as in general the banks with vascular provision in shallow waters, as is also the case of the zostera, for example, both in the mediterranean region and in the atlantic region, are important refuges of biodiversity, are important in carbon sequestration, are important in regulating nutrient cycles, in the elimination and recycling of polluting waste, among other functions.
i know how difficult this fight will be, i know that it requires political courage and i know that this will require your assembly, along with us, to put all the necessary energy into it, but i know that i can almost by definition count on your majority support and i want to tell you that on all these subjects, well, i will need it.
with this more stringent method of controlling dumping, the european union ensures compliance with the rules of the world trade organisation, but above all it gains an instrument to defend the interests of its companies and workers, and with an advantage, to also value social dumping, because it takes account of social and environmental standards and distortions achieved through wage costs.
mr president, cooperation strategies must help to ensure that the values of globalisation are fair and capable of responding to the issues of our time, inequalities, climate change, forced migration and security challenges.
the eu-africa summit is an excellent opportunity to set clear post-cotonou commitments, enabling the achievement of the sustainable development goals and the paris agreement.
the three clear options are: cooperation to improve the skills of the population, especially the youngest; the new digital networks as a means of participation and access to services of common interest; and the energy transition and the spread of access to clean energy sources for the population.
mr president, commissioners, i welcome the interinstitutional agreement reached to bring about a new stage in the emissions market.
it was another step towards bringing the european union closer to meeting the paris goals and reinforcing our potential to lead the energy transition.
we will soon be called on to take new steps: the review of the renewable energy directive, the energy efficiency directive and the 'governance' regulation.
unemployment is one of the biggest problems we have and therefore tackling inequalities is also a way of creating jobs and of being able to have economic development and economic performance that is fair and sustainable.
madam president, commissioner, it is clear that economic inequality is a clear contributor to financial instability and to the waste of human resources.
mr president, commissioner, the presentation of the third report on the state of the energy union comes, as you know, in a week in which the european parliament has shown, through its votes in the itre committee, a strong commitment to a much more ambitious agenda.
europe's transition to a low-carbon speed has moved from being an aspiration and a necessity to becoming increasingly a reality that is viable, generating growth, jobs and a better quality of life for europeans.
i would like to highlight in particular the convergence between energy networks and digital networks and between the energy transition and the digital revolution.
interconnections are key to the development of a fluid and competitive single energy market.
on the other hand, the concept of digital energy has to be deepened and applied more and more.
it is with them that we can make the single energy market a reference market on a global scale.
coming back to another question, there is a process being discussed internally to review the energy charter as well, and we are looking into this.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
we must continue to fight iuu fishing and promote respect for the environment and local communities in third countries, and we must therefore encourage fisheries agreements originating in the european union.
marine resources are a common good and promoting sustainable, balanced and transparent exploitation by the community fleet is a way of demonstrating to our international partners how committed we are to this.
this document is another instrument that helps ensure food security and fish from sustainable sources, as well as combating iuu fishing and transnational organised crime in the fishing industry.
ladies and gentlemen, this house cannot but strongly condemn this ethnic cleansing and support the agreement between bangladesh and myanmar so that the return of the rohingya refugees can be carried out in a safe and sustainable manner without further segregation and military controls, and as the high representative has said here, i would like to congratulate her for her excellent work.
however, the implementation of the overall joint action plan and its impact on institutional and trade relations must be strictly conditional on the uncompromising defence of human rights and go far beyond the blitz visits of european leaders with agendas focused on investment opportunities or the promotion of energy alliances.
mr president, commissioner, minister, throughout this year in this parliament we have had several debates on disasters which have taken on a great dimension because of the new context of climate change.
mr president, we agree with many of the considerations and recommendations contained in the report, but it is clear that the report under discussion today could and should have been more ambitious, particularly in terms of the need for defence and investment in sectors which already fall within the scope of low-carbon mobility, such as rail transport.
while we understand the need for concrete measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector, we also understand that profound changes are needed in land use planning, regional and local development policies, distribution models, the construction, management and maintenance of public transport networks, infrastructures and services, public transport policies, road and highway planning and maintenance.
this will only be possible if we break with the conditions and policies of the european union which make it possible, within the framework of the sovereignty of the states, to define powerful public investment policies associated with public control of strategic sectors such as transport or energy.