calls on the maltese presidency to find the necessary political solutions to be able to unlock the single european sky 2+ (ses2+) dossier; as rapporteur for this proposal for a regulation, i reiterate the importance of this legislation for citizens: increasing the efficiency of the management and organisation of european airspace and ensuring safe, seamless and sustainable air transport.
i reiterate the role that the maltese presidency must play in relation to the energy package, in order to find a balance in the completion of the ets agreement, an agreement which must not endanger the industries of certain member states, particularly those in eastern europe.
a more social europe should not be one that throws money at every problem it identifies, or one that stifles competitiveness – a precondition for job creation and sustainable social protection.
in the context of sustainable development and exponential change in all socio-economic areas, the european union must take swift and visible responsibility for the growing inequalities that have emerged in the european community, the increase in unemployment, work-life imbalances, poverty among children, young people and the elderly, and the systems needed to maintain health, security and human dignity.
mr president, mr vice-president šefčovič, thank you for your work to make the energy union a priority european project and for delivering the winter energy package together with your commission colleagues.
the european union still imports more than half of its energy needs, but progress is being made towards diversifying energy sources, routes and suppliers.
the more energy efficient we are, the less dependent we will be on external energy suppliers.
energy efficiency will allow us to invest more in job creation and innovation.
the money should be better spent on sustainable energy production, on increasing energy efficiency and upgrading energy networks, and on ensuring clean and affordable energy for european industry and citizens.
so we need to look at how we can stimulate investment in renewable energy.
the commission will also assess the impact of the measures on the electricity market in the light of the conclusions of the european council in copenhagen on 20 june 2014. in discussing the state of the energy union, we must also focus on the next steps.
that is why the current energy package must be an opportunity to launch the transition of our industrial base.
you can count, mr vice-president šefčovič, on our support, on the support of our political group, and we will strengthen the provisions of this very important energy package.
mr president, colleague, you said, among other things, that 29% - the proposed 2030 percentage compared to 2012 - could be more ambitious in terms of renewable energy.
on the one hand, you said that the report shows that we don't have enough resources to support renewable energy, and on the other hand, i want to ask you: do you think it's right that the cost of green certificates is borne by the population?
i welcome this advance by the european union in energy on co2 targets compared to last year, it will move to the next stage and this year will be the year of implementation, both at national and local level.
the new proposals on low-carbon mobility need to strengthen the eenergy union and this will be possible if it benefits from robust governance.
governance should take into account, in equal measure, energy efficiency and security, electricity interconnections and the strengthening of internal lines, the integration of renewable energy and new technologies used for conventional energy production.
progress towards diversifying energy sources, routes and suppliers is visible, but the eu still imports more than half of its energy needs.
we need to reduce energy dependence through efficiency.
through investment, energy efficiency will create innovation and jobs, but by focusing on sustainable energy production, clean and affordable energy can be ensured for industry and european citizens.
the european commission's top priority this year must focus on implementing what has already been adopted in the energy union strategy.
de-locating co2 emissions is not a solution.
i believe that the balance needs to be struck at the level of the emissions trading system (ets), which must become an effective tool to facilitate the transition to a competitive and low-carbon economy.
the new proposals on low-carbon mobility need to strengthen the energy union and this will be possible if it benefits from robust governance.
governance should take into account, in equal measure, energy efficiency and security, electricity interconnections and the strengthening of internal lines, the integration of renewable energy and new technologies used for conventional energy production.
the ecosystem-based and prudent approach to fisheries management increases the transparency of external fishing activities and makes it difficult to circumvent cfp rules, while limiting administrative burdens and increasing legal certainty.
european union vessels may fish in the waters of third countries either under the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements concluded by the eu with those third countries or as a result of obtaining direct fishing authorisations from those third countries.
in this regard, the eu and the member states must take appropriate measures to ensure the sustainable management and conservation of marine resources, in the context of food security and poverty eradication.
cooperation is also essential for transforming the world we live in through the conservation and sustainable use of oceans, seas and marine resources.
there are many things that can be done by reducing co-financing, recognising volunteer hours as co-financing in projects, better framing of participants or sustainability of projects.
it is important for sports to provide a positive and sustainable legacy in sport events while also enhancing cohesion, tourism and local businesses in the organising cities and countries.
every child in the world has the right to a family and an environment in which to be loved and to receive the education necessary for adult life.
climate forecasts show that arable land will also be threatened by other phenomena, such as changes in rainfall or the more pronounced impact of pests associated with higher temperatures.
current procedures are too slow, forcing farmers to resort to conventional pesticides with all the implicit risks to health and the environment.
the cpd is a central element in the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals.
madam president, commissioner, directive 2003/87/ec established a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading in the union to promote reductions in carbon dioxide emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner.
the current review must also take into account the sustainable strengthening of the union industry in terms of the risk of carbon dioxide emissions, investments and jobs being relocated.
i would therefore stress that the objective of the directive is to achieve a level of emission reduction such that there is no relocation of carbon dioxide emissions and of investments and jobs.
i would add here that we must not artificially increase the price of energy for european consumers, whether they are citizens or manufacturing industry.
security of energy supply, alongside the fight against climate change, is a top policy objective for both europe and the member states.
the review of the ets should strike a balance between emission reductions, the real economic situation of the member states, the need for development of industry, including the energy sector, and the specificities of the different member states.
we need a predictable, effective and stable regulatory framework to stimulate investment in low-carbon technologies without harming the competitiveness of ets sectors and the achievement of the paris targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
– madam president, i would first like to thank all the meps who spoke in this debate, raising issues that are important not only for european climate policy broadly but also for our citizens and businesses.
forging agreements on the different aspects of the european union’s emissions trading system (ets) ambition has been a very challenging task.
i therefore reiterate my gratitude to ian duncan and fredrick federley, as well as to the chairs of the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, jerzy buzek, and adina-ioana vălean, for all the efforts they made to deliver this excellent and ambitious report.
i am confident that, in view of all the challenges facing us in climate policy, there will be in this house the same degree of responsibility and spirit of compromise that we found in paris in december 2015. that is what european citizens expect from all of us.
making the cost of reducing emissions more profitable by increasing investment is the aim of the amendment.
accelerated decommissioning of certificates can affect energy security in the eu.
the aim of amending the directive is to reduce emissions, not to set a higher price for emissions.
the commission's new proposal on the eu ets is necessary as this reform needs to provide some certainty to the industry and investors in eastern europe by setting the rules for the period after 2021. it is also an opportunity to increase energy efficiency and support climate action.
we do not want the european economy to face a relocation of energy-intensive industries to third countries.
the allocation of green certificates free of charge is essential for industries on the carbon leakage risk list.
flexibility in the number of free allowances compared to the auctioned allowances is very important for the long-term sustainability of the eu ets.
aviation, road transport, agricultural waste and buildings should continue to be non-ets sectors.
member states should have the necessary framework to set their own national climate targets, taking into account the specific energy production conditions of each member state.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, biodiversity, the result of billions of years of evolution increasingly shaped not by natural processes but by human actions, is the subject of many debates and conferences, legislation, speeches and written works.
the slow degradation of ecological systems that are threatened with extinction, economic, ethical, scientific, aesthetic motivations, approaches and possible solutions, combating droughts and floods, protecting species, recycling, stabilizing the climate, etc.
however, one of the concepts of biodiversity relates to the ethnocultural diversity of socioeconomic systems, which is currently facing increasing pressure from the impact of human action, making them function increasingly inefficiently, the main causes being the inability of the population to appreciate the long-term consequences of human activities, the inability of markets to recognize the value of human capital, decision-makers to use the skills of human capital and others, the effects being visible in the physical and virtual worlds but with profound consequences for the existence of the material world and the well-being of people.
the union is the best vehicle our continent has devised in order to be able to shape our economic, social and environmental, and security situation in the world, but it is not perfect: it can and it should be improved.
no, it is about a sustainable track record.
the s&d group has tabled its own consensual resolution which clarifies what we mean by progressive trade agreements by spelling out clearly what we like about ceta, and what we do not like about ceta and expect to be further corrected in ceta where agreed, or in future trade agreements more widely: better provisions on sustainable development and a sanctions-based approach; further improvements to the ics system and full european parliament involvement in the designation of judges; better forms to cover the protection of public services; and improved transparency for all trade agreements in future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety focused in the opinion on the importance of keeping the patient-doctor relationship as regards to diagnosis, treatment and follow-up.
we emphasised, too, the importance of minimising the possible environmental and ecological footprint of robotics and maximising the potential for making processes more resource efficient.
the provisions on the aspects mentioned above were adopted with a large majority in the environment committee and i was happy to see that ms delvaux took these ideas on board in the final committee on legal affairs report.
at the same time, i believe that we need a common legislative framework at european level, as well as an efficient taxation system that reflects the union's environmental ambition on the one hand, and takes into account the financial possibilities of the different member states on the other.
as the benefits of cloud computing are essential for sustainable growth, job creation and researchers, it is important to reduce the fragmentation of digital infrastructures, ensure appropriate governance and funding for the european cloud.
mr president, commissioner, the european structural and investment funds must be used to promote quality lifelong learning and skills systems that facilitate the adaptation of work to the changing realities of the working environment, and the creation and promotion of quality jobs, with a focus on rural areas where women and young people are the most affected by unemployment.
on the other hand, the european agricultural fund for rural development plays an important role, especially if we consider the degree of flexibility promoted at european level in order to respond as effectively as possible to specific territorial needs and to achieve the 3 cross-cutting objectives of innovation, environment and climate change mitigation.
in a challenging geopolitical environment, eu cooperation on external security and defence has to be strengthened.
as such, one of the core goals of the eu and who, namely sustainable development goal 3, is precisely to ensure access to medicines for individuals (patients).
the commission will now assess energy agreements concluded by member states with third countries for oil and gas, but electricity agreements will be assessed after they are signed, a system that is completely inefficient because it is very difficult to break an agreement after you have signed it or in the midst of political or economic conflict.
third states with abusive or expansionary policies should not be suppliers of energy to the union.
an energy-independent european union can take strong decisions and be less susceptible to the sensitivities of leaders who believe that there is a currency for all.
human rights are non-negotiable - member states should bear this in mind when signing energy or any other type of agreement with third countries.
i welcome the inclusion in this report of the mention that national plans on phasing out amalgam should be made publicly available and sent to the commission by 1 july 2019. moreover, new products and processes containing or needing mercury should only be authorised when an assessment of the risk and the benefits demonstrates a significant environmental and health benefit.
mr president, the positive effects and the opportunities brought by data analytics are already visible in areas where there is energy efficiency, fight against climate change, transport or health care.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of ms simone bonafé, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 2000/53/ec on end-of-life vehicles, directive 2006/66/ec on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators and directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment (com (((2015) 0593 - c8-0383/2015 - 2015/0272 ((cod)) (a8-0013/2017), the report of ms simone bonafé, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 1999/31/ec on end-of-life vehicles, directive 2006/66/ec on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators and directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment (com ((2015) 0593 - c8-0383/2015 - 2015/027 (cod)) (com (2015) 03425)), the report of the european parliament and of the council on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/31/ec on the environment, (com (com (2015) 03425) - c8-03585)) - c8-0958-0358 (cod)) and the report of the commission on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and the council amending directive of the european parliament and the council amending directive (eu) on packaging of the european parliament and the council amending directive (com (com (com (com (com (com (00) 0348-05-05/2015) - c8-05-05/2015) - c8-05 - c8-05
mr president, i would like to underline the complexity of the reports and the work of the rapporteurs.
waste management and recycling, as well as avoiding excessive waste generation, are important objectives.
i think we should take into account when setting targets for different waste groups and the capacity for investment in research, investment in education and investment in technology.
i think it would be very important to develop inspection and control tools to ensure that member states prevent hazardous waste from being declassified through mixing activities.
however, i cannot support in the report the exemption from registration of companies transporting less than 20 tonnes of non-hazardous waste and two tonnes per year of hazardous waste, because there is a risk of illegal shipments of waste.
it must be borne in mind that the protection of the environment and human health is directly proportional to improving waste management at european level and the recovery of primary resources, on the one hand, and increasing energy efficiency and reducing the union's dependence on raw materials, on the other.
the european union can reduce its raw material imports if it has a sustainable circular economy strategy backed by a clear legislative framework that can send viable signals to investors.
therefore, european legislation needs to include clear definitions for the area of waste and recycling and binding targets.
– today we vote on an important set of proposals to increase recycling and reduce waste in europe.
every day we throw away valuable raw materials and increase our environmental footprint, depleting our planet’s finite resources.
there are huge environmental and health impacts of using water, energy, fertilizers, pesticides, and packaging to produce and transport food which is ultimately thrown away.
i am pleased that the environment committee supported my proposals for a definition of food waste.
this is a basic requirement for monitoring and reducing such waste, but it is still lacking at european level.
mr president, the european economy has slowed down, it is resource dependent, and energy cooperation with the russian federation has disappointed us, because russia is not a reliable partner and, in fact, many of us have known this for decades.
we need to use as much as possible and waste as little as possible.
it's part of the circular economy package where it basically eliminates waste and also increases competitiveness.
we need products that are reusable, and we need to eliminate waste and loss in the long run, not just in the short run.
for example, the commission is aiming to reduce urban waste by up to 70%, and i hope it will succeed, and i hope we can all help it at home, where we talk to people, where we talk to the authorities and where we can make a difference.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of sustainable development, in order to protect and promote food security and the good nutritional status of the citizens of europe, it is necessary to regulate risks to the integrity of humans, animals and plants, through harmonised rules on the identity, health and quality of plant reproductive material, animal by-products, production regulation, veterinary and phytosanitary legislation, but also rules on consumer information and fair trading practices in trade in products in the agri-food chain.
of course, the correct and effective application of eu agri-food chain legislation can be established through official controls, carried out in member states and third countries, and a robust but simplified, transparent and sustainable legislative framework for their organisation contributes to the modernisation, integration and efficient functioning of the european union's reliable and coherent control system, thus giving competent authorities access to up-to-date technical data, research results, new techniques and the necessary expertise, as well as the most effective tools for the performance of official controls and other official activities.
on this basis we would like to ask the commission to put forward a legislative proposal to enable the interrail project in a transparent, predictable and sustainable way without, of course, affecting any other existing projects.
its use will support mobile broadband communications and encourage innovative digital services in rural or peripheral areas, such as electronic and mobile health services, based on mobile phones, patient monitoring devices and other radio-enabled devices, and smart energy networks.
we don't have to waste any more time.
educating the stakeholders and achieving long-term sustainable effects is only possible through an approach based on shared responsibility.
today, more than ever european well-being is interlinked with stability, peace and sustainable economic growth in all regions of the world including those regions which today are conflict areas or war zones.
there is one thing that i believe we can do immediately, distinguished colleagues, tomorrow we can show the determination of the european parliament to ensure a clean and sustainable mineral supply chain.
as regards political considerations, with the globally deteriorating security environment – including, at our doorsteps, at the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome – revisiting the ideas of the founding fathers on closer military integration in order to reinforce our security at home and act externally for peacekeeping and conflict prevention externally makes more sense than ever.
mr president, i supported this report which amends the draft regulation which essentially contains some form of self-certification or self-regulation for importers of minerals from countries in civil war or where there is significant environmental damage.
moreover, it is vital that clear, reliable and accurate data be collected on fleets and their fishing activities, environmental impact and discards, in line with proper standardised statistical principles.
yet this initiative could quickly turn into general frustration if the commission does not present a convincing and sustainable approach soon.
– the eu renewable energy policy is driving demand for biofuels within and beyond europe’s borders.
some biofuels can even emit more greenhouse gases than the fossil fuels they were supposed to replace.
and certification based on sustainability criteria will reduce demand for the most damaging biofuels.
over-exploitation requires huge amounts of land, water, fertilisers and pesticides, causing pollution, soil degradation, and damage to ecosystem services.
a bio-based economy must be developed in the right way, because using the wrong sources of bio-energy can do far more harm than good.
the 2030 agenda commits the european union to promote sustainable forest management by halting deforestation, restoring degraded forests and substantially increasing afforestation and reforestation.
this is possible by providing sustainable production and consumption patterns and practices to both businesses and consumers, in line with national policies and priorities.
at the same time, palm oil consumption, expected to double by 2050, is driving deforestation of tropical forests, which means the destruction of natural habitats, ecosystems and biodiversity, as well as climate change.
as such, there is a need to intensify research and awareness-raising campaigns on the impact of the use and consumption of palm oil on human health and safety and on the environment, as well as research into the social dimension of the production, use and consumption of palm oil.
oradea has the vocation and potential to become, among other things, a new it hub of romania, provided it manages to support an ecosystem conducive to innovation.
mr president, member states failed to monitor cars for illegal emissions and turned a blind eye to cheating by volkswagen and other manufacturers in tests.
i am also a member of the imco committee and i have thought through all the amendments from the point of view of consumer protection and environmental safety.
but it must lead to fair competition and respect for consumer rights and environmental standards.
(article 162) (b) the following paragraph is added:
madam president, while illegal logging in my country still represents an immense problem and an issue of national security, i am glad to see that the eu in general is becoming more and more self-aware of its ecological footprint.
as the second biggest palm oil importer in the world, we are largely contributing to massive deforestation of rainforests that leads to wildfires and biodiversity loss; and, moreover, we are endangering the lives of indigenous people.
i welcome the call in the report for the establishment of strong standards for sustainable palm oil production.
as chairwoman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i want to send a strong message both to the eu and uk.
we are bound to work together constructively in the best interest of our citizens, to ensure a clean and safe environment and a high level of public health and food security, and to pursue our common commitment to the climate change.
it makes no sense believing that environmental and health issues stop at the borders.
we will not allow a future relationship that damages the integrity of the single market or lowers european legal, social, environmental and health standards.
the commission also has to develop a sustainability mechanism, which has to be implemented by the end of the year for some exceptional derogations, and i am sure that it will do so.
national wholesale roaming markets should therefore be competitive and offer wholesale roaming charges that allow operators to offer retail roaming services in a sustainable manner without additional costs.
we need to praise ukraine for managing to undertake the necessary reforms in an extremely difficult environment – i would say wartime – imposed by russia, considering that it has to dedicate great efforts and resources to a conflict that is in fact a direct consequence of the european choice that the ukrainian citizens have made.
i agree that waste affects people's lives and affects them over the long term and for generations.
i was surprised to see that the commission, in the waste directive, left a loophole so that hazardous waste would not be registered.
shipments of less than two tonnes of hazardous waste and twenty tonnes of non-hazardous waste may pass without being registered.
we need accurate traceability, because there can be one carrier of two tons of hazardous waste, but there can be a thousand carrier of two tons a year, and then, think about moving outbreaks from one country to another.
commissioner, perhaps you would consider devoting some research to waste disposal technology, because i do not think we have a very clear record at the moment: what types of waste we have and what technology we have to destroy it without affecting people's lives.
mr president, the structure of our societies is changing before our eyes while trade patterns and technology cause enormous transformations in our work environment.
the creation of the structural reform support programme is a very welcome initiative, as all member states should be given the opportunity to apply for and receive support for reforms that contribute to a healthy economic environment, boost growth and employment and improve the living standards of citizens.
it is also why the union has identified a number of structural reforms as one of its priorities, with the aim of giving a sustainable upward trajectory to the process of economic recovery and growth.
as we all know, cohesion policy is very important for reducing the gaps between european regions, supporting job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development and improving the quality of life.
if you like, the whole european union strategy depends on investment, we want connectivity, we want energy efficiency, we want support for smes.
we are convinced that the eib's activities are a crucial component of the european union's efforts to restore sustainable growth and better employment in europe, in particular through the partnership between the commission and the eib in implementing the investment plan for europe.
there is one big issue that has been the focus of the discussions in washington last weekend, and that is climate change and sustainability, and i can tell you that the wind is not necessarily getting any more favourable to these issues.
we have insisted also in the discussions with the other multilateral development banks and international financial institutions that we must not lower our ambitions on climate change mitigation and the achievement of the sustainable development goals which we subscribed to so happily only three years ago.
but we are also the biggest multilateral borrower in the world because we refinance by going to the capital markets for eur 70-100 billion per year through the sale of eib bonds, so we have an accumulated debt also of more than eur half a trillion, and that means we have to be very serious when we talk about sustainability.
that is a principle that goes beyond economics, of course, but also when it comes to the principle of economic viability and the concentration of social and environmental standards which we observe closely.
the eib should invest in projects that achieve sustainable growth in all member states, and for the efsi - european fund for strategic investments, the additionality of the projects financed should be carefully considered, given the additional risk-taking capacity.
agreement on the completion of the second review, which should also provide certainty on the primary surplus and debt sustainability of greece, should be reached quickly between the partners.
last year we already gave that commitment to come back to the issue of sustainability of debt for greece, because that is the only way that they will come back onto a sustainable path and a sustainable economic future.
i also believe that it is necessary to strengthen its policy in the field of climate change action to achieve the eu commitments taken within cop 21. nevertheless, i would like to underline that there is also a need for increased parliamentary oversight of the eib’s activities, taking into consideration the lack of transparency, particularly in the selection of projects and the low number of projects in central and eastern europe.
there were many malfunctions and irregularities at acer, the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, and as i said, i did not vote for the discharge.
mr. president, the data we have on food waste is shocking.
the real cost is huge because it reflects the costs involved in producing food with energy, water, transportation, fertilizer and everything that holds the soil.
equally high are the associated costs: carbon emissions, water pollution, degradation of soil and ecosystems.
food waste only stimulates this overproduction, which over time diminishes the ability of agricultural land to provide food for a growing population in the future.
the resolution tabled by the environment committee makes some important and practical proposals, and work has already begun on common definitions and methodologies to combat this phenomenon.
i call on my colleagues to support these proposals, as well as the mandatory measures proposed to be applied at european union level that are necessary to combat food waste along the entire food chain.
the target of reducing food waste by 30% by 2025 and by 50% by 2030 (compared to 2014 levels) cannot be achieved without the involvement of all actors in the food supply chain and without relevant analyses of the causes of food waste and identification of the food sectors with the highest food waste, with a view to identifying solutions to prevent it.
in this context, i consider it useful to involve the eu platform on food loss and food waste in supporting the implementation of consumer food information and education programmes, facilitating cooperation of local stakeholders in food waste prevention and food donation initiatives, and evaluating good practices already implemented in different member states in order to better define effective tools to reduce food waste.
while some people (around 800 million people globally) barely have enough to eat, others can afford to throw away kilograms of food periodically, generating unprecedented, immoral and unethical food waste.
must contribute to combating food loss and reducing waste.
the united nations sustainable development goal of halving food waste by 2030 can be achieved by the combined efforts of all the actors involved in this major environmental impact phenomenon and by a holistic approach to all relevant policies at union and member state level.
reducing waste and improving food security can be the direct result of changing the consumption behaviour of the population, through a process of empowering each individual, and information and persuasion are absolutely necessary to this end.
a clear definition of food waste also leads to its recovery as a safe feed resource.
they see globalisation as synonymous with job losses, social injustice and low environmental health and privacy standards.
we cannot do e-government in the internal market if we don't connect the rural environment.
in the justice and energy sectors, in the fight against corruption, as well as the public administration reforms, some legislative and regulatory steps have been already taken.
smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is the eu's answer to the challenges it faces.
the political climate in this country has been marked by tensions following last summer's presidential election.
the member states must put every effort into the successful implementation of agenda 2020 and the sustainable development goals.
i would also like to congratulate the negotiators for including commitments to promote decent work, corporate social responsibility and the importance of social and environmental standards for european investment in developing countries.
unfortunately, the online environment facilitates communication and membership of extremist and anti-semitic groups and leads to the trivialization of deviant behaviour.
sustainable development goal 14 can be a very strong driver for reinforcing ocean governance.
this and other goals under agenda 2030 are being actively pursued through many of the eu's policies, as we established in our communication in november on the next steps for a sustainable european future.
for example, the marine strategy framework directive provides a comprehensive and integrated approach to the protection of the marine environment and natural resources.
this is based on an ecosystem approach aiming to achieve good environmental status of european marine waters.
our birds and habitats legislation provides for protection of the eu sea area through a network of marine protected areas - mpas - as a part of natura 2000. the european union is tackling marine litter and pollution at source through its rules on waste management and prevention and port reception facilities for ship-generated waste and cargo residues, as well as through the circular economy.
we have also set up a system for ecosystem-based maritime spatial planning in europe.
the day after world ocean day i will host an event on the contribution of this fight to ensuring the long-term sustainability of fisheries resources.
sustainable management and conservation of natural resources, such as biodiversity and fisheries, is also gaining importance in our trade and investment policy.
for example we are including dedicated sustainability provisions in the relevant trade and investment agreements and we are also committed to eliminating harmful fisheries subsidies in line with target 6 of sdg 14. and that is why the european union tabled a specific proposal at the wto last october.
madam president, commissioner, the 2030 agenda for sustainable development presented by the commission is an ambitious agenda.
the 14 actions the commission proposes are sustainable, responsible and reasonable, but we must bear in mind that over 30% of our marine resources are overexploited.
in the context of the negotiations on the future international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, which can only exist in the context of the un convention on the law of the sea, i would like to know how the european commission intends to achieve an effective agreement that will close the gaps in international law, when we know very well that there are states determined to deny the existence of climate change and the need for responsible management of fish stocks.
in terms of sustainable resource management, we are again talking about the need for a system of regional fisheries management organisations based on international agreements that have the necessary strength, support and respect from states, so that their decisions are implemented.
a lot of scientists who are women and who come before those panels tell me they feel better when they see that there is gender balance in the room: there is a different energy and it produces different results.
all of you give me the energy to keep doing my job, and that is really unique.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of dario tamburrano, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu (com ((2015) 0341 c80189/2015 2015/0149 ((cod)) (a80213/2016) and the question with request for an oral reply on compensation for mislabelling of energy products, addressed to the commission by martina werner, on behalf of the s&d group, dario tamburrano, on behalf of the efdd group, michèle rivasi, on behalf of the verts/ale group and syli neoklis, on behalf of the gng/oil group (49000077) (2047/2017/eu) (2083/2017) bp).
mr president, commissioner cañete, i would like to stress the importance of energy-efficiency labelling of products for consumers, for producers and for the achievement of the european union's energy efficiency objectives.
according to the commission's assessment, the result of labelling and standards is an energy saving of approximately 175 million tonnes of oil equivalent by 2020 and for consumers a saving of eur 465 per year on household energy bills.
in addition, energy efficiency measures will create additional revenues of eur 55 billion for european companies.
i would like to congratulate the european parliament's negotiating team, because we need clearer rules on energy labelling to support consumers.
among the main achievements i would highlight the return to clearer labelling and the introduction of a public database containing all energy efficiency labels, thus increasing transparency and providing consumers with a better tool to compare the energy efficiency of household appliances.
we therefore support, as a political group, compensation for improperly labelled energy-impact products and ask for further clarification from the commission on the compensation of consumers for non-compliance with the energy class indicated on the label, as well as the timing and possible measures envisaged by the commission in this regard.
as a member of the imco commission, i support the labelling of any product, and therefore energy labelling.
energy labelling indirectly leads to innovation, because there will be competition who can produce a device that has a lower energy consumption and one of the objectives of the european union is also energy efficiency.
in short, i believe that labelling stimulates research and innovation in the field of energy-intensive fixed appliances and media, and it is necessary to have this labelling system.
the next item is the debate on the report by gerben-jan gerbrandy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the mandatory annual greenhouse gas emission reductions by member states for the period 2021 to 2030 to achieve a resilient energy union and to comply with commitments under the paris agreement, and amending regulation (eu) no 525/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other information relevant to climate change (com (2016) 0482 c8-0331/2016 2016/01 cod231 (a820/2017).
we have chosen international cooperation over isolation and will continue to play a decisive role in tackling the grave threat posed by climate change.
the regulation we are voting on is an important component of the eu's climate change policy during the paris agreement period.
it will ensure significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in sectors that today account for more than half of eu-wide emissions.
mr president, commissioner, mandatory reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a european union objective and it is a goal of all member states.
every time we looked at reducing emissions, environmental issues, we felt that we had to look at the broader, global context, so as not to put europe and its citizens at a disadvantage.
it's natural to want to protect the environment.
what are we going to do about ttip if america doesn't meet the environmental requirements?
i think, commissioner, that you should consider including these environmental conditions in all trade agreements, because the planet must be saved and we can only do so by taking measures not only in conjunction with europe but also with the other continents.
mr. president, people are choosing low-energy electronics, giving up as much fossil fuel heating as they can, and limiting their household consumption.
but now we're talking about labeling electronic products with energy consumption.
every person buying an electronic product needs to know how much energy it consumes and from what source it is derived.
industry, in turn, needs to adapt, especially to renewable energy.
the future is renewable energy and the end of russian gas independence.
we will need to focus on sustainable job creation and improved livelihoods.
yemen has been plucked by years of instability, war, poor governance, lack of the rule of law, underdevelopment, environmental decline and widespread poverty.
now that the serbian presidential elections are behind us, i am confident that all energy in serbia will be devoted to the implementation of the reform agenda.
recognition is not only essential for the country to take the initial steps towards european integration, but would also create a favourable environment for rapprochement between serbia and kosovo.
the paris agreement, we need to say, makes economic sense, because it will create more jobs, more prosperity and sustainable growth in our economy.
madam president, commissioner, president trump's decision to withdraw the us from the climate change agreement has created a major problem for the european union and we have to acknowledge this.
one of the biggest polluters on the planet, the united states, does not want to participate in measures related to environmental protection.
we all think we want to help protect the environment.
will we continue to fill the market with products that come from a polluted environment and further deindustrialize europe?
protecting the climate is vital for the planet and this must be used in all negotiations.
at a time when, unfortunately, we are witnessing a retreat of identity in many parts of the world, i am confident that here, in this noble assembly, you will be able to draw from yourselves the necessary energy to pursue the spirit of solidarity, openness and peace that your predecessors spoke of.
the three challenges i would like to talk about are global warming, migration flows and population growth.
i'll start with global warming.
on december 12, 2015, world leaders gathered in paris to adopt a historic climate agreement.
this agreement, which has been ratified by the vast majority of states, including côte d'ivoire (which has already deposited the instruments of ratification at the un), represents a unique opportunity for our planet to contain global warming within reasonable limits.
now more than ever, it is urgent to implement this agreement so that the harmful effects of global warming on humans and the ecosystem can be contained.
in particular, europe must continue to mobilise the opinions, funding and technologies needed for the energy transition to make the paris agreement irreversible.
today, as i speak, torrential rains, which are the consequence of climate disturbances, are causing considerable damage in several parts of my country.
so, ladies and gentlemen, i would encourage you to continue to make climate a priority, so that the tragedies we see around the world will end.
they have also been made possible by the significant technical and financial contribution of our partners in the european union, notably in the fields of governance, agriculture and energy.
in the energy sector, côte d'ivoire is on its way to becoming an energy hub in west africa, with a capacity of 2,000 mw in 2016, which will increase to 4,000 mw in 2020. today, côte d'ivoire has one of the densest and most diverse infrastructure networks in africa, thanks to its roads, ports and airports.
reducing emissions is a necessity, but the targets proposed must be rational and in line with the possibilities of each country, because we have a job crisis, and we have problems with regional disparities and very different per capita incomes.
so i abstained, and i hope that this ratio will improve, because yes, we need to reduce emissions, but we also need more jobs and more income per capita.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
i am a strong supporter of all the opportunities that the collaborative economy brings to the european business environment, but also a supporter of a fair competitive environment.
in february, when president ilham aliyev came to brussels, we showed our openness to strengthening cooperation with azerbaijan in various fields, from energy to trade, but also to discussing more often the foundation on which this cooperation must be built: respect for fundamental freedoms.
the ambitious programme of reforms will cover financial sector governance, public sector governance, the fight against corruption, the fight against money laundering, energy sector reforms, and improvement of the business and investment climate.
– the position of the european union has been constant throughout recent years and we have always said that if the international monetary fund comes to the conclusion that the republic of moldova’s debt is sustainable, the economy is strong enough and the conditions of an agreement with the imf are met, then the european union stands ready also to help the republic of moldova.
at the same time, in the context of the union's long-term geostrategic objectives, support for moldova becomes essential to ensure a stable political climate at its borders.
this is why i would also find useful initiatives such as the creation of a voluntary eu label for durability and environmental design or the provision of security updates for operating systems within a minimum period of time.
increasing the life and repairability of products can bring a number of environmental, consumer and economic benefits.
increasing product life is a response to the need to conserve raw materials and limit waste, as consumers have information about product life and the option to repair is more attractive, and manufacturers bring products to market that can be easily repaired and upgraded.
in this context, we believe that a balance must be struck between product life cycle extension, waste to resource (secondary raw materials), industrial symbiosis, innovation and waste policy, innovation, consumer demand, environmental protection and economic growth in all phases of the product life cycle.
in recent years, many traditional fishing communities across the european union have come under increasing pressure from a number of negative factors, such as overfishing and declining fish stocks, climate change, pollution, population decline and, not least, the declining attractiveness of the fishing profession.
i would like in particular to warmly thank the presidency for the excellent cooperation on the report on the european fund for sustainable development, for which i was a co-rapporteur for the committee on development, to promote sustainable investment in africa and in the eu neighbourhood and tackle the root causes of migration, which is hopefully going to be adopted on thursday.
i do not therefore agree that after all this work we are doing for a healthy and transparent economic environment we should end up with legislation that applies to only 15% of these entities.
the report on the mandate for the 2018 draft budget trilogue is very important from the perspective of the future sustainable growth of quality jobs, especially in smes, research and for young people.
over the last few years we collectively have achieved some impressive results through the multilateral system, through the un system: the nuclear deal with iran, the sustainable development goals, the paris agreement on climate change, to mention just a few.
with our consensus on development, we are leading the way in the implementation of the sustainable development goals.
investing in global governance, sustainable development, climate action – and here again the list could continue – is for us an investment in our own security.
we will continue to work to implement the sustainable development goals via development cooperation on human rights – a key pillar of our work – and we will work with mr guterres and with all our partners towards a more effective multilateralism.
madam president, culture and education as soft-power resources in the eu external policy arsenal are still not adequately reflected in our efforts to counter radicalism, resolve conflicts and promote reconciliation and sustainable socio-economic and human development in the world.
it is important to say it, and i understand that the security environment has change in turkey as well as in the surroundings of the european union.
– mr president, as you know, on 14 september 2016, the commission tabled a proposal for establishing a new european fund for sustainable development (efsd) aimed at mobilising up to eur 44 billion of investment in africa and the eu neighbourhood.
the efsd is the first pillar of the external investment plan under which the commission also plans to enhance technical assistance in partner countries (pillar 2) and to work towards improving the investment climate and overall policy environment in those countries (pillar 3).
the main assumption is that supporting investment and private-sector involvement through innovative financing can foster sustainable and inclusive economic and social development and address the root causes of the migration crisis and promote the resilience of the partner countries in africa and the eu neighbourhood, including in the least developed countries, with a particular focus on growth, the creation of decent jobs, youth and women, socio-economic sectors and, of course, small and medium-sized enterprises.
the progressive points we managed to include in the efsd text are the following: reference to development effectiveness, resilience, decent job creation, the aim of poverty eradication and articles 21 of the treaty on european union and 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in the purpose of the instrument; and the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development as objectives.
we insisted on having a particular focus on climate-friendly investments, thus contributing to implementing the paris agreement, and setting a binding minimum target of 28 investments for climate action, renewable energy and resource efficiency.
we also managed to improve the focus on addressing the root causes of migration by placing it more clearly in the context of fostering sustainable and inclusive economic and social development.
mr president, the term 'sustainability' is used so often in so many contexts that i wonder if it has become a cliché used only to give weight to initiatives.
eradicating poverty, reducing inequalities, decent work, quality education, economic growth and respect for the environment - these are hallmarks of sustainable development, but instead of helping to achieve them, many voices use the concept of sustainability simply to justify individual or business interests, and people are beginning to lose faith in this concept.
i would, however, like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has done an extraordinary job in defining the environmental challenges and the seriousness of the problem.
we are, however, a long way from achieving the ambitious un sustainable development goals.
the outermost regions, part of the european area, need strong support to create jobs, develop still fragile economies and ensure adequate protection of the environment, as well as biodiversity and cultural values.
only an inclusive, socially sensitive, equitable and sustainable economic system, with a continuously rising standard of living and security, can be attractive to the rest of the world.
i think that no one in the european parliament, or outside it, is aware that environmental protection is one of the most important issues.
of course, every sector of activity is responsible for emissions, so the aviation sector cannot be exempted.
and that is why i believe that the report, as it is drafted and i hope it is voted on, will bring about important changes, but at the pace at which we can do the global negotiation, otherwise we will be in an inappropriate situation ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the land-use sector has a profound effect on greenhouse gas emissions and can play a huge role in removing them from the atmosphere.
accounting for the impact of this sector is therefore a key element in climate policy.
the proposed legislation should encourage member states to protect their carbon sinks, but flexibility is also important.
it should be allowed for emissions from one sector to be offset by carbon removals from other sectors or traded between member states, as long as the cumulative effect of these flexibilities is to reduce total emissions.
if we want agriculture to be sustainable across generations, it is vital that young farmers benefit from effective support in the form of both eu financial support and the provision of the internet.
madam president, commissioner, unfortunately in 2015, more than half of the eu-28's gross domestic energy consumption came from imported sources.
this is an important step towards strengthening the european union's energy security and, in the event of a serious crisis in the supply of natural gas, eu countries will have to help their neighbours, while not neglecting their protected consumers, to avoid european citizens running out of heating in cold weather.
i think it is an important step towards what we all want, that single european energy market.
therefore, i welcome the introduction of the solidarity principle and i strongly believe that the latter paves the way towards the achievement of a genuine energy union by making one of its cornerstones, which is energy security for all, more effective.
indeed, safeguarding the security of gas supply demands more cooperation, more coordination and more transparency in the common energy union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we should no longer question the importance of guaranteeing gas supplies and energy security.
i congratulate the team and committees that worked under the rapporteur's coordination and i think we should, commissioner, pay attention now to how the commission works with the national authorities, because i believe in coordination of work and i believe very much in the proposals in the report on energy efficiency.
energy efficiency is extremely important for energy saving, investment in technologies also measure that can help efficiency.
the report also contains other proposals which i support, such as diversification of energy sources, but all of them must be read in the same key: solidarity, solidarity read as it says in the contract.
with this regulation we have completed the energy security package tabled by the commission in february 2016. the agreement on this politically so important dossier was reached in only 14 months – a real record, mr buzek, and thank you for your support.
with this, we will significantly improve security of gas supply not only in the european union, but also beyond in close cooperation with energy community countries.
let us maintain this positive spirit in the negotiations on the ‘clean energy for all europeans’ package that is now on the table of this parliament and the council.
statement of the commission as regards article 15 of the proposal for a revised gas security of supply regulation the commission welcomes the co-cooperation mechanisms set out in article 15 of the proposed regulation as submitted to coreper as an important tool for ensuring consistency of preventive action and emergency plans with energy community contracting parties.
the commission stresses the importance of effectively ensuring that no measures are put in place by energy community contracting parties that may negatively affect the security of supply situation in the eu and its member state and vice versa.
218 tfeu for negotiations on amendments of the energy community treaty with a view to establishing an appropriate legal framework and mechanisms to allow applicability of selected provisions of the regulation and other relevant parts of the acquis communautaire in the field of energy between the eu and its member states on the one hand, and contracting parties of the energy community on the other, so as to ensure effective implementation of a reinforced security of gas supply framework.
unstable international cooperation encourages the eu to secure the energy system and protect consumers in case of the disruption of foreign gas supply.
we are not credible in saying that we want infrastructure in europe to be better: energy, digital, highways, railways and at the same time we cut eur 111 million from the connecting europe facility and eur 99 million from large infrastructure projects.
we can do this if we start from the consideration that there is no single measure that solves the problem in 24 hours but it is about putting in place a series of measures on all fronts - the external, the internal, the economic, the security, the social, the rights, the governance, the climate, and i could continue - a series of measures that over time build responses and solutions, where we make one thing clear to each other: i hope that this will reflect the unity and consistency that we are achieving in our external action on the management of migration flows.
so we also listen to the proposals that come from countries that are on the front line, because they are the ones who know the reality of the phenomenon and how we can manage it together in a sustainable way.
so, along with the word "management", i think there's the word "sustainability".
most recently at our high-level political dialogue on 25 july in brussels, the high representative and i made it clear to our turkish counterparts that there is an urgent need for the current trend to be reversed if we want our reciprocal engagement to be sustainable.
the challenges facing the two partners at international level are similar, whether they are regional tensions or global issues such as terrorism, disrespect for international law or climate change.
the eu needs to strengthen its plans to achieve an energy union, a security union, a capital markets union, a banking union and a digital single market.
41% of fire victims are killed by gas, smoke and toxic emissions.
the programme will also deliver more detailed and faster statistics for other important policy areas such as the energy union and will support the monitoring of the sustainable development goals at union level.
therefore, i believe it is essential to improve the quality of statistics, especially on sustainable development, and ensure that our policies are based on more than gdp or debt deficit indicators.
high-quality statistics should contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals of the united nations’ 2030 agenda for sustainable development and to the 2015 paris climate agreement.
it is absolutely essential to see what we can do with human resources and we, the imco commission, of course, who are in charge of the internal market, are confident and convinced that in order to ensure sustainable growth, social cohesion and the creation of new jobs, as well as to promote innovation and entrepreneurship, especially for smes and the craft sector, it is essential to close skills gaps, to address skills mismatches and to promote opportunities for social mobility.
the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have a national programme for the protection of the environment.
we are increasing our efforts in preserving civil space and ensuring an enabling environment for civil society organisations.
supporting a genuinely independent, diverse, pluralistic and vibrant civil society is essential to help achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
we are committed to investing more in existing good practices and highlighting the positive aspects of the sustainable development goals’ implementation through civil society organisations.
the commission and the high representative are committed to continue working closely with the european parliament and eu member states to ensure that together we can build a better environment for civil society organisations.
whereas clamping down on civil society organisations is getting more difficult to address, we need to step up efforts and provide guidance to beneficiary countries on strategies for creating adequate legal, administrative and political environment, which allows to these key actors to work efficiently.
turning now to reform for business, a healthy economy requires transparency in the financial and public sector; it requires a strong fight against corruption and money laundering; it requires a positive business climate.
last year, in 2016, we saw important reform in the energy sector, including on the use of renewable sources: it is now crucial to complete this reform process, with the swift adoption of the energy law.
this is why all political forces must overcome the polarised political climate ahead of the electoral period and engage in constructive dialogue, taking into account the real needs and expectations of the citizens.
if the world is to deal with the problems of overpopulation, global warming, and migration, it must end the practice of child marriage.
the european union’s position on this is very clear and we reiterate it constantly in our dialogue with our egyptian counterparts: sustainable security and stability can only be achieved when human rights – those guaranteed by the 2014 constitution and flowing from egypt’s international commitments – are fully implemented.
sustainable security is linked to sustainable development, which is linked to human rights and to regional stability.
– mr president, egypt is a key partner for the eu and we welcome the first eu-egypt association council after the revolution and the adoption of the partnership priorities for the period 2017-2020. egypt is undergoing a difficult period, but its path towards stability and sustainability is so important.
undoubtedly, climate change is one of the most important challenges for humankind.
those of us who believe in the science explaining climate change keep on stressing this fact and the associated disastrous consequences for both our present and our future.
we are one month away from the start of the 23rd climate conference in bonn, which will be a milestone in the technical work on the implementing rules for the agreement.
the regrettable decision by the president of the united states to withdraw his country from the paris agreement will have numerous implications but, most worryingly, it has an immediate impact on climate financing, which is one of the cornerstones for international climate action.
the suspension of us contributions to the green climate fund will open up substantially a hole which we have all been working hard to fill.
as every year, in line with our commitment to the international climate process, the european parliament will attend the bonn conference and follow the discussion and decisions made there, and through its privileged contacts with parliamentarians from around the world will support the eu position.
i am looking forward to a fruitful exchange with all of you this afternoon, as well as much cooperation between our institutions in the run-up to and during the climate negotiations in november.
i do not understand the goal of the objection because there is no benefit for health and environment in maintaining the interim criteria.
on the other hand, i come from a private environment and i know very clearly that prevention is better than detection, which you do, and it's not your fault, you do notice some mistakes.
i would also like to review the main provisions of the proposal, namely that the proposal will allow all fertilising products, including those derived from bio-waste and recycled nutrients, to benefit from the ce marking, which ensures free movement in the single market.
it will help to turn waste management challenges into economic opportunities for farmers, innovative european technology providers, and manufacturers.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation as regards information exchange, early warning systems and risk assessment, i confronted a harsh reality.
i have stated, in the environment committee opinion, that the rapid growth of the market in these novel products makes it necessary to enhance monitoring and early warning systems so as to assess health, safety and social risks, in order to develop responses.
it is not enough to mark an expenditure in a field without concretely assessing the impact of that expenditure and, in particular, the benefits and sustainability of the investments.
at the same time, we need to ensure the sustainability of these farms in the medium and long term by identifying new markets as we continue to face the russian embargo.
such an agreement is likely to create major difficulties for us, given that farmers in these countries are not obliged to respect any limit on cadmium, glyphosate or antibiotics, which allows them to obtain a cost price per unit of product well below that obtained by a european farmer, and this affects the long-term sustainability of european investment in agriculture.
we need to strengthen our fiscal sustainability, vital for our future cohesion.
structural economic reforms should increase eu sustainable growth potential, real economy convergence and social cohesion by reducing economic inequalities and strengthening labour markets through inclusion policies that favour investments.
by defining criteria for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation (sts), we can revitalise european capital markets’ securitisation in a sustainable way.
in recent years this house has dedicated considerable energy to better regulation and the commission very much welcomes that.
we also pay particular attention to the national authorities who have key tasks under eu law, such as national competent authorities, national data protection supervisory authorities and national rail, energy and telecoms regulators.
in addition, i am disappointed that, in terms of the transposition of legislative provisions, the three areas in which member states have been the most subject to infringement procedures have been the transport, energy and environment sectors.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, because on the one hand she has identified very well what needs to be changed in the directive, it is a balanced proposal, yes, everyone, from the citizen to the national and european institutions, must be concerned about protecting the environment.
of course, i would like to see more emphasis on prevention, because the polluter pays, but we are interested in protecting the environment, not the money that is collected from the polluter.
companies do not have how and where to store, for example, waste, and there are no technical and technological solutions in the member states.
it is important to clarify and harmonise the way in which the directive is applied and to specify that there is no standard administrative procedure for notifying the competent authorities of environmental damage.
in this context, i sense that there is common ground to counter vaccine hesitancy – i see that we are all like—minded – to strengthen evidence, transparency and sustainability of national vaccination programmes and to increase the effectiveness of eu vaccine research and development.
in many parts of the world, a sustainable future for christians and other religious groups depends on the work we are doing today for peace, for national reconciliation, for inclusive institutions.
thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, concerned about the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services, the european union adopted in 2011 the eu biodiversity strategy, which commits the community to halting the loss of diversity by 2020. it is known that, under the impact of anthropogenic pressures, many marine species are facing a decline in population and a decrease in range and habitat, which brings to the attention of the european union the need for further measures and actions in the field of marine environment protection.
this is because marine protected areas are the ecological foundation of the blue economy, as stated in the commission's report of 1 october 2015 on progress in the creation of marine protected areas.
this question concerns a species of grass, posidonia oceanica, which is not only one of the most sustainable and productive species in the biosphere, but also, according to researchers from the university of the algarve in portugal and the french institute for the exploration of the seas, the oldest living organism in the world, with more than two hundred thousand years, with a positive impact on the conservation of biodiversity.
it is clear that new measures for the protection and regeneration of posidonia oceanica must be the result of data and information on the evolution of coastal marine habitats, as well as the evaluation of programmes and actions already undertaken by the european union, directly or indirectly, in terms of investments and impact on the protection of coastal marine habitats and the conservation of biodiversity.
the commission should promote research at european level on the protection of coastal marine habitats, environmental education and governance structures favourable to the inclusion of marine protected areas.
the commission should also support member states through the european union's financial mechanisms for the conservation and sustainable use of coastal marine biodiversity.
specific measures are needed to encourage young people to stay in their region and thus ensure a sustainable renewal of generations.
– mr president, i would like to start by highlighting the importance of an efficient and strategic eastern partnership for the security and stability not only of our partners, but also of our union, and this is the right place to welcome and applaud the commitment, the energy and the vision of the estonian presidency in building such an opportunity for all of us.
i share the opinion that future cooperation, for which an intensified political dialogue acts as a precondition, should focus on key areas such as economic development, good governance, human development, migration, the environment, and security and the fight against terrorism.
finally, having in mind the very strong ties between the european union and the african countries, i would like to reiterate the need for a boosted commitment from the eu’s side in helping the african continent to be stabilised and attract major investment through, for example, the european fund for sustainable development – a very important eu instrument to boost development.
we want a flow of services without barriers, we want a business environment where they can grow and have access to the market.
madam president, the action plan for nature, people and the economy must be implemented to conserve the environment, which is essential for each of us, for our lives.
they should also ask governments to force the food, energy, chemical, automotive, building materials or environmental industries not to influence the policies of member states and to fund re-technologising so that it protects our lives and does not kill us.
in the long term, we need to reduce our dependence on other countries, and this can only happen if vehicles and their components are designed and produced in europe; carbon dioxide emission reduction standards: we will need to think carefully about the optimal level.
so i agree that transport needs to reduce the 4% that it currently contributes to pollution, but we need to think about the investment, the technology, we need to talk about the infrastructure that is missing, and maybe you, commissioners, are thinking not about how to switch to cars, but how to switch to electrified railways, how to switch from road transport to rail, and of course, how to think about national and local budgets as those means of transport that make public transport services the first to switch to fuel, whether it's electric or alternative fuel.
as rapporteur for the seventh general union environment action programme, i am aware of several cases where funds spent on environmental objectives have not brought the desired results.
the commission must act to ensure a more responsible use of the funds it distributes for environmental projects.
many ngos i consulted for the report told me that the evaluation of the implementation of environmental policies is limited because it involves only the member states and the commission.
thank you, madam president, commissioner, and i would like to congratulate the colleagues who have asked questions on the evaluation of the implementation of the eir environmental policies.
the problem is that the states are unequally developed, there are insufficient budgets, both local and national, and, if you think, this would be my question, if you think about giving support where not out of bad faith you can't apply environmental policy, but because of lack of financial resources and can find with the strategic investment fund, with other sources of funding to support the states that can't, not because they won't.
we also have very good development cooperation, especially in the pacific, which focuses mostly on clean energy and climate-change-related projects.
we also have shared interests in tackling key global challenges such as climate change, sustainable development and preserving the environment, in addition to humanitarian aid and the fight against terrorism, to name just these.
the partnership agreement will provide a forward-looking political framework within which eu-new zealand relations and cooperation on sustainable development and a comprehensive range of issues will be developed even further for years to come, in order to match new ambitions and aspirations.
i am confident that today’s vote will confirm with a large consensus a strong and substantive text and will reiterate and underline once again the energy and ambition of this longstanding relationship, of which the partnership agreement will now be the most eloquent pillar.
climate change, which concerns us all, is also a level of cooperation between the european union and australia.
who can not agree, who can oppose environmental protection, environmental protection measures?
there are many problems with the financial possibilities in some member states to create the conditions for environmental protection and that is why i asked the commissioners in the plenary debate to think about some new mechanisms for financing large environmental protection projects in all the member states and in those where local and national budgets do not reach.
so i'm glad that this project was voted but i hope at the same time that the members of the commission, the european commission, will find mechanisms to support the states that are not currently at the level of environmental protection, with mechanisms for environmental protection, at the appropriate level and for the trend that is up to 2030-2050.
madam president, i want to say at the outset that this report is a first step.
madam president, commissioner cañete, this debate is taking place at an opportune moment because, as you know, the itre committee voted yesterday on the energy efficiency and renewable energy reports and the result is an ambitious one, which shows a clear commitment as well as the direction in which investment is needed.
the european union's 35% target for renewables, 40% for energy efficiency, a very strong article 7, clear provisions on fighting energy poverty, clear provisions and a 3% target for the renovation of all public buildings, a 12% target for renewables in transport.
we are also ready to support the commission's efforts to amend the gas directive, as we need to ensure the integrity of european union legislation, respect for the principle of solidarity, as well as energy security and diversification of energy sources.
also, what is the state of a possible legislative proposal on the prevention of cyber incidents in the energy sector?
mr president, while welcoming the third report, i would like to emphasise the fact that, while much has been achieved, we have to continue pushing forward in order to attain the goal of energy union, that of delivering secure, affordable and climate-friendly energy to all eu citizens and businesses.
as the right way forward, the energy transition should be socially fair, would pave the way towards innovation and would rely on a future—proof infrastructure with enhanced security of supply.
i am particularly glad to see that tailor—made support and assistance was provided to regions facing economic and social challenges, which have been, or remain, reliant on coal and carbon-intensive industries.
indeed, the actions put in place in 2017 ensure that the eu is on the right track to implement the energy union project and boost jobs, growth and investment.
yemenis need a sustainable solution for development in agriculture, to fund and address their existential needs and give them a chance to live in peace.
they suffer from indirect or direct discrimination when they are excluded from society, from work, or even the environment around them.
the international atomic energy agency has reported nine times that iran is implementing all its nuclear-related commitments.
since the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) entered into force, the international atomic energy agency has – as you rightly mentioned, madam high representative – certified nine times that iran is in compliance with the commitments set out in the agreement.
this award gives us more energy to continue fighting for the values and principles of democracy that you share.
it would be a waste of time.
the report does not provide enough information to develop conclusions on whether the european union’s efforts will be successful in attaining the sdg targets by 2030, and fell short on measuring the eu’s impact on sustainable development from a global perspective.
unfortunately, climate change is leading to natural disasters, to fires, to floods, to landslides.
the report shows that the number of petitions increased from 2000 to 2016. i also think we need to look at the issues and it can be seen that compared to 2015, when petitions for the environment and justice were at the top, here in 2016, most of the petitions are for the internal market.
that is why i recommend that the commission and the member states monitor the way in which the directives governing the internal market are applied, because we all know that this affects the economic environment, but also the lives of citizens.
madam president, commissioner, i am a member of the tran commission and i believe that transport mobility needs to be improved, obviously, taking into account the reduction of emissions, because statistics show that 25% of the emissions in the european union are from transport and 70% from road transport.
i am glad that the report has focused on urban transport, where we can have a major contribution to reducing emissions, and i think it is important to switch to alternative fuels first at this level.
we know that according to the world health organization, traffic noise is the second most important environmental stressor.
the 2011 white paper on transport makes it very clear that we need a sustainable mobility policy and that we need to rely on a wide range of policy instruments to ensure an effective transition.
how can we expect to organize a free electoral process in july 2018 in such a climate of violation of human rights and the rule of law?
first of all, as a field of activity, in 2016 the petitions were related to how the internal market works and not to the environment and not to justice and not to human rights.