the report on logistics and multimodal transport in the ten-t corridors addresses the need for efficient and sustainable freight transport using not only roads but also rail and waterways.
the gradual shift of freight traffic to unused rail corridors and water transport will significantly improve the environment and make life easier for residents who live close to road infrastructure.
the aim must be to create sustainable jobs, but also to ensure decent and fair working conditions.
moreover consider the waste of money that is more and more europe.
at the same time, sustainable political dialogue is crucial for the country.
the energy union and the digital single market are examples.
the existing mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements with third countries in the field of energy has so far proved ineffective.
its objective is to check that such agreements comply with the european union's energy legislation and priorities.
the result is to strengthen the internal market and the energy security of the eu and its member states.
on paper, it looks good, practically in line with the energy union strategy.
the data collected can help ensure sustainable health systems and the development of innovative medicines.
i think we should focus on areas where we can achieve the best outcomes for our citizens, whether it is digitalisation, energy or the capital union.
it's mainly digitalization, energy and security.
for this, our partners in montenegro deserve our further backing in keeping up the momentum and continuing with the reforms, notably in the domain of the rule of law, judiciary reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and improving the media environment.
the emissions scandals were the result of insufficient control.
if the union is to protect consumers' rights and ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment, control mechanisms must be an obligatory part of every policy, legislation and act.
at the same time, we need to protect our environment better, but also think about the development of new technologies and about jobs in the european union.
we can see that this information stems from a weak institutional and democratic environment, and simultaneously feeds into preserving the same defined milieu.
we should invest more attention and resources in resilience of the media environment and information literacy in the eu, but also in our partner countries of the neighbourhood and our future members.
as regards specific actions, the commission shall support under this programme the implementation of (a) reforms in the context of economic governance, (b) reforms related to the implementation of macroeconomic adjustment programmes in the case of member states receiving union financial assistance and (c) reforms carried out by member states on their own initiative to promote sustainable investment, growth and job creation.
i consider it important that in future, eib assistance and support continue to focus on viable projects with high added value, which will have a positive impact on employment growth, support innovative projects and exploit domestic energy and raw materials resources.
food waste is not only highly unethical, with almost 800 million people worldwide suffering from malnutrition and over 88 million tonnes of food wasted in europe each year, but it is also a wasteful drain on our resources.
although food waste occurs at all stages of the production process, the fact remains that the largest proportion of food waste, up to 53%, is caused by households.
mr president, this is not the first time that we in the european parliament have dealt with food waste.
because only by asking this question can we reduce food waste in a way that does not endanger public health and, above all, preserves the human dignity of those who rely on this kind of food aid.
madam president, i think it is time we moved further on the issue of food waste prevention.
they should help to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and promote sustainable economic growth.
the eu is at the forefront of reducing energy demand, promoting the use of renewable energy sources, innovation and reducing co2 emissions.
the european structural funds have made considerable progress in transport infrastructure, social infrastructure, health infrastructure, education, urban renewal, the environment, and, above all, in promoting new jobs.
finally, a historic agreement was reached, committing the international community to tackling the causes and consequences of climate change.
the debate included the president of the marshall islands, hilda heine, so we heard firsthand about the threats posed by climate change and the daily fight against them.
however, i would like to stress that improving the investment environment cannot be just a matter of public investment, but above all of private resources.
only then can we make policy choices that lead to better family situations, a rejuvenated europe and sustainable prosperity.
it is also a crucial issue for ensuring sustainable environmental protection.
excessive consumption and short product life increases the cost of disposal and endangers the environment, air and ecosystems.
if we recycle just 1% of this waste, we can create over 200,000 jobs.
this is the right step towards the satisfaction of our citizens and towards a significant reduction in waste generated by the disposal of not only non-functioning appliances.
the longer durability and better possibility of repairability of the product is therefore not only an element of a fairer approach to customers, but also a partial key to mitigating the impact of climate change.
the g20, which accounts for up to 4/5 of the world's gross domestic product and 2/3 of the world's population, will meet this month to discuss important issues of trade, tax dumping, climate change, migration, security, terrorism and other important issues of general concern.
many good proposals, such as strengthening the industrial recovery strategy, but also instruments to implement the paris climate agreement, were not included in the resolution.
the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) is a milestone in our approach to development and migration.
therefore we need to look for long—term sustainable solutions, solutions which would bring growth, more stability, more jobs opportunities and solutions that would help societies to develop and adapt to the current world.
with this framework, we can promote sustainable investment and tackle some of the root causes of migration in africa and the neighbourhood.
the european fund for sustainable development is a vital part of this plan.
this opens new challenges to boost investments and improve the business climate in the most fragile countries.
we are facing an important financial and foreign policy instrument to help the sustainable development and growth of countries that are often the main sources of migration.
it has carbon impacts and is a major challenge for the sustainability of energy sources and the environment.
the new skills agenda for europe is therefore a long-awaited initiative that addresses the need to modernise european education and training systems in line with the rapidly changing economic and social environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
it is necessary to continue negotiations and find an acceptable solution in order to deal with issues that will move the european union forward, such as digitalisation or cooperation in the field of energy.
many of them need a barrier-free environment or even an assistant.
consumer protection legislation often unnecessarily complicates the lives of entrepreneurs, while improving the business environment is also one of the union's declared priorities.
first of all, it must protect itself, and it would therefore be very good if the union did not act in the area of consumer protection legislation for a number of years now and focused on improving the business environment.
more than 218 million people in africa live in extreme poverty, which shows that the eu-africa partnership is an essential tool for implementing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
while poverty is declining, the sustainable development goals, in particular poverty eradication, must be given priority.
as terrorism is a global threat to regional peace and stability, sustainable development and internal security, it must be addressed by national governments, regional and international organisations and european agencies through coordinated efforts.
the creation of sustainable jobs, which not only provide livelihoods but also improve people's overall social and societal status, is a key means of reducing inequalities.
so i have, in addition to the fact that we all want to reduce co2 emissions in the air and we all want a better environment, two questions that i consider to be fundamental to the subject, which is primarily about renewable sources.
my colleague has already mentioned before me how we are losing forest cover in europe because we have decided to finance a fairly large purchase of wood and to create, in fact, renewable or alternative resources, and something very similar applies to land where instead of cereals that we can put into the food or livestock industry, we grow crops for biomass that destroy our land.
another huge problem for our farmers is that they are threatened by supply chain policies more than climate change.
a particular problem then is the shell companies, which participate directly in money from the european union budget and in the various projects that the european union offers to improve the environment in its member states.
the objective of low-emission mobility must be to promote and deploy safe, affordable and efficient forms of transport that lead to zero emissions and thus to better protection of the environment and public health.
the fight against climate change requires that the union also cooperates with the rest of the world, in particular with the actors of the paris agreement, which are aware of the seriousness of the impacts of emissions on the quality and existence of life on earth, in order to achieve this objective.