a healthy economy will bring about a regulated market with fair working conditions, adequate and sustainable social protection, equal opportunities and access to the labour market.
digital products and services based on data can have a major impact on improving environmental protection and food security, energy efficiency and the development of smart transport systems and smart cities.
so the problems of water, food, the environment are going to be the key ones, and it is right that the policy is very much aligned with these objectives.
however, i would also like to draw attention to the environmental perspective as a green mep, especially as i am concerned about the european commission's data that 44 out of the 71 hydroelectric power stations planned for construction in albania are planned in environmentally protected areas, including, of course, the vjosa river, and i would like to draw particular attention to this.
changes in the environment cannot be an excuse to leave the market fragmented and to excuse violations.
today the european parliament has failed the europeans who have been protesting loudly, here in the european parliament, against agreements which also threaten the environment, which in fact affect the future of generations yet to come.
such an agreement will not bring economic growth, and even more so, from the experience that canada has with a similar agreement with america, it means job losses and risks in many areas, including environmental, labor and social rights.
therefore, mercury emissions are recognised as a global threat warranting action at local, regional, national and global levels, and this report we are adopting today should be seen as part of a global effort to reduce the risks of mercury exposure.
i would also mention the mercury programme of the united nations environment programme.
of course, there are also many environmental and social problems associated with the closure of mines and the release and leakage of this mercury into the environment.
i support the report on the table, particularly on the key instruments and also on the protection of dental amalgam, waste, use, export and, of course, the appropriate safeguards.
it's found in fact everywhere, it's found in water, it's found in fish, it's found in seafood, it's found in nature, and it's really one of the most important environmental concerns.
i think that the report we are talking about is a really good basis for respecting the commitments that have been made in the united nations and above all it is to welcome those key points from this report both in relation to dental amalgam and waste and the use of exports, export restrictions and of course the warnings that are important in order to protect ourselves against the harmful effects of this substance.
but it must be said that fisheries policy is a very complex process, which also has to take account of local specificities, environmental aspects and what my colleagues have said before me: the distinction between so-called small-scale fisheries, artisanal fisheries on the one hand and industrial fisheries on the other, because they have a completely different impact on many sectors.
this is why it is necessary to make a continuous effort to reduce vehicle emissions, to set standards and to control this area better, and above all to prevent manipulations within the automotive industry, as happened in the volkswagen affair.
following the adoption of the real driving emissions act, europe will be the only region in the world that will measure real driving emissions.
today’s plenary debate shows the political importance of this proposal as a key response to what has happened regarding exhaust emissions.
the european parliament is sending a strong and clear message to member states, and to the other players in the sector, that they will no longer get away with not taking safety, environmental protection and the wellbeing of our citizens seriously.
the commission’s proposal to strengthen type approval and market surveillance are part of a series of other measures, including the real driving emissions testing, which will mean that the volkswagen scandal can, and will, never happen again.
following dieselgate, it has become clear that the emissions of dirty emissions from most diesel vehicles on the road are much higher than eu standards allow, usually as much as five times the limits.
the authority would complement the existing system of market surveillance of motor vehicles with independent and transparent controls, thus ensuring that vehicles sold comply with safety and environmental standards.
it is true that this is a technical document, in fact a revision of the 1968 document, but above all the common fisheries policy is very important for all the countries involved in this area and it also has a very important social role; in particular, of course, environmental aspects must be taken into account, including local specificities, and of course the distinction between the so-called industrial fishing of large vessels and that of small fishermen, for whom this is a traditional way of fishing.
i supported the resolution on palm oil extraction and the burning and clearing of rainforests, as it focuses primarily on the environmental aspect.
because deforestation has a very big impact on biodiversity, the impact on greenhouse gases through burning, and we have to realize that in indonesia and malaysia, as many forests have already been cleared for these purposes as the forests in austria.
europe has its share of responsibility, as we are major importers of palm oil, and therefore we need to do something about transparency, control and certification of this production and, ultimately, to opt for imports of only palm oil that is produced in a sustainable way.
we are talking about the unfortunate venezuela, a country that was ruled for decades by the regime of hugo chavez, a leftist regime that at one point was even lucky enough to have very high energy prices, and also gave the impression that it was creating a modern state.
i believe that sustainable fishing using traditional tools is the foundation for thriving coastal communities and also contributes to food security in the most remote regions.
it is intolerable that the eu is always generating 88 million tonnes of food waste, while 55 million europeans cannot afford a quality meal every other day.
more than half of all food waste is generated by households, and of course, the whole process and the food chain also plays a role.
but there is also the public sector, which, with better planning, could consume and waste less food.
in the european union, we generate as much as 88 million tonnes of food waste a year, while as many as 55 million europeans cannot afford a quality meal every other day.
more than half of all food waste is generated by households and, of course, the public sector.
this waste is generated along the entire food chain, from farms to the food processing industry to the shops and, of course, the supermarkets.
the environmental burden of food waste is also important, accounting for 8% of greenhouse gas emissions, and these incentives are therefore necessary, also in the context of a circular economy, to use this waste as a resource without burdening the environment.
at this point, it seems important to me that the design of social systems is the domain of each individual country, but given the problem i see, i think that the union could also be more active, especially when it comes to the question of the sustainability of pension systems.
president juncker, you mentioned the hundreds of millions of climate refugees that could result from the failure to implement the climate agreement.
unfortunately, there is no hearing in this house to establish clear criteria that would allow international protection for climate refugees.
not only that, but the advisory environment is also important, especially from a technical point of view.
the impact on competitiveness, including so-called fair and unfair competition, the impact on the environment, the impact also on social and labour rights.
the business environment is, of course, very demanding, the competition is fierce, and only the best survive.
yes, we will only achieve sustainable development if we respond together to the challenges of climate change and globalisation, and yes, the union will be a leading global power if we speak with one voice.
i strongly support the establishment of a 44 billion european fund for sustainable development for africa, with which we want to improve the situation on this continent.
it is therefore right to direct these funds towards development projects that will create new jobs, while also taking care of the environment, since environmental problems are also increasing in africa as the population increases.
aviation is the sector where greenhouse gas emissions are growing the fastest.
it is therefore essential that the aviation sector also takes the approach of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and as has already been discussed today, as has been stated in the report and as the commission's position is very clear, europe, as the one leading this pioneering battle in the environmental field, cannot win this battle alone.
the lulucf regulation addresses the importance of agricultural land and forest use for climate change.
agriculture, or plantation through photosynthesis, firstly, does not use very much co2, and secondly, forests also accumulate stocks, which can eventually be a quality source for building material or even for energy use.
in this document, we support the guidance given by envi that great care should be taken in the sustainable use of forests, as an ageing forest, which is also not cut down enough, can play the opposite role.
i come from slovenia, where the cutting rate was only 37% of the increase between 2000 and 2009. therefore, such a solution, which also allows for an increase in the cutting rate, is sustainable, since the use as it has been so far would have the opposite effect.
ladies and gentlemen, poor access to educational opportunities can lead to a decrease in people's competitiveness on the labour market, problems in their private lives, but also to a permanent passivity, exclusion from the social environment and also, as can be seen in recent years, violent radicalisation, especially of young people who are vulnerable in risky situations.
this climate needs to be translated into a citizens' demand for politicians and institutions to respond or act accordingly.
not only in my country, but also in the eu as a whole, there is a gap between european education systems and the economic and social environment.
first, that we are the cause of the climate change that is causing the problems that we are seeing, whether in the caribbean or in europe.
secondly, europe was the first to recognise its obligation and its role in the field of green economies and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
we have already made a lot of progress in the field of energy, we are increasingly moving towards renewable energy sources in the field of energy efficiency, and we still need to make a big step forward in the field of transport.
i'm also glad that polluters like china are following the european example, which has stopped building new power plants altogether, and that china is already producing more wind energy than all of europe combined.
the budget must respond to the challenges arising from the complex geopolitical environment, the still weak economy in the european union as well as supporting the european union's readiness for the future.
on the one hand, as already mentioned, overpopulation, daily migration, air pollution, on the other hand, depopulation of the countryside, less economic activity and many environmental problems in the countryside.
let's join the project to clear the sahara and pay more attention to the effects of climate change in africa.
i welcome the initiative, in particular the proposals to reduce emissions, to encourage change in the automotive industry and among users, and to increase the use of rail in freight transport.
the shift of freight from roads is not only necessary because of emissions, but also because of congestion and destroyed roads and accidents.
the environment, of course, the energy, infrastructure, transport sectors, but also the social and many other sectors will be affected.
i think that all these efforts that are being made must ultimately have a significant impact on safety, in addition to, of course, emissions.
i also call, of course, on the ombudsman to continue her inquiry into the functioning of european union agencies, with a focus on the food safety authority and the european chemicals agency, concerning monsanto and the possible sustainability and conflict of interest implications.
the report draws attention to the problems faced by people with disabilities in society, the labour market and their local environment.
aviation is the fastest growing sector in transport and already today accounts for 1.3% of all c02 emissions, so it is essential to prevent this black scenario from happening, whereby by 2050 these emissions increase by a further 3 to 7 times the forecasts for transport growth.
today, on the threshold of a new year and new plans, it's time for positive energy and optimism.
we can only feel safe in an environment that respects democratic rules, is attentive to individuals and shows solidarity.
a healthy economy will bring about a regulated market with fair working conditions, adequate and sustainable social protection, equal opportunities and access to the labour market.