this is perhaps one of the most important things we are doing in this term of office as we work towards the future energy union.
as several colleagues have said, it is important for us to be competitive, to be able to keep good prices for both private consumers and industry, to be able to ensure that we are a progressive party also when it comes to renewables, and not least energy security.
so that in a world that is becoming increasingly anxious, we know that we can manage our energy supply to individuals and to industry.
i myself will have the privilege of working on the renewables part, and i have noted today that the commission's report on renewable energy has been released, which shows that we are already well on the way to reaching the 20% renewable energy target set for 2020. it's very gratifying.
it makes me believe in a common energy market where we have market-driven pricing.
for example, when our colleagues from estonia became full members of the nord pool energy market, costs for private individuals were reduced, safety was increased and costs for industry were reduced.
mr president, we are in the midst of an energy revolution.
if we do not act now, we will not only fail in meeting our climate obligations, we will also miss out in reaping the rewards of being leaders of green innovation.
we need to create a climate that attracts scientists from all over the world who want to come here and create breakthrough technologies, and we need to support the shift to new products and clean tech start-ups.
you mentioned, mr šefčovič, that for you, 2017 means implementation and it means real business, and you can certainly prove that very easily because, as you know, there is one project that is in conflict with the whole idea of the european energy union and in conflict with its aims, and that is nord stream 2. it is increasing dependence on russia and increasing dependence on gas.
it is distorting competition and it is changing the architecture of the european energy markets.
it will be a means for gazprom to assume an even more dominant market position and it is also in conflict with the rules in the third energy market package about unbundling.
so, if you want to make the project of energy union credible and stable, you need to act.
it is very easy to prove that you mean business with energy union.
– mr president, first i would like to thank everyone for the work they have done on this important report and the good cooperation and interesting discussions we have had on this topic, the sustainable management of the eu external fishing fleet.
we have added that fishing on the high seas must be based on a scientific evaluation, showing the sustainability of that fishing activity.
i therefore urge you, colleagues, to vote against amendment 30 and to support amendment 78. another fundamental principle is the exclusivity clause in the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
– mr president, i can reassure the house that the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, mr duncan, has been so focused on this report that when i texted him at about seven o’clock this morning and said ‘congratulations’, he replied ‘the report is not through the house yet.’ then i said ‘isn’t it your birthday?’ he had forgotten about that and was all focused on the emissions trading system (ets).
as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy in respect of its opinion and shared competences on a few of the sections relating to the eu ets, i must say that i am pleased by the team’s devotion to delivering a broad majority in committee, where the report was supported by more than 80% percent of the members, as one of the main tasks for us was to make sure we did not trigger the cross-sectoral correction factor and that we did deliver a strong voice for the forthcoming negotiations in the environment committee.
the vast majority of the proposals we had in the industry committee’s opinion were actually accepted and on board in the environment committee proposal, and we are grateful for that and also for the cooperation we had with the environment committee team.
we will not create stable conditions for industry, and we will not meet the climate targets.
we have a historic opportunity to show that we are serious about our work on climate change and global warming.
we have the chance now to show that europe is serious, that we want to take the lead in a sustainable climate-smart society, built with new fossil-free and world-class smart technologies, that we understand that good climate action and economic growth are not opposites, but rather interrelated and interdependent.
the ets is the eu's single most important climate policy tool for reducing carbon emissions.
for us social democrats, there have been three guiding principles: 1) to make sure that the ets is really aligned with the paris agreement and delivers for the climate, 2) that it is more fair and precise for industry, so we get rid of the imbalances we have seen in the historical ets, and 3) that we also make sure that workers get the chance to be part of the transition to a climate-smart society, so that it is fair.
to do this, we need to crack the emissions bubble, and then allowances must be reduced by at least 2.4% each year.
2) at the same time, it is important for us to give industry the right tools to switch to climate-smart production without losing competitiveness, but on the contrary strengthened.
that is why we are giving more money to innovation so that companies can invest in greener solutions.3) it is also important that climate change is solidarity-based and does not increase class gaps.
we cannot allow those who already have the least to be the ones left behind as society modernizes and becomes more climate-smart.
the vote on wednesday is a baptism of fire for the eu's climate action.
we're standing up for the climate and making sure that ets becomes the climate legislation that it should be and this is so important, so now i've got my last word... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur.
i think you have addressed a number of important points, and your remarks will certainly also carry weight in the discussions we will have within the council and the various areas you have referred to during this discussion: the importance of areas such as education, competitiveness, the environment and even social policy.
i am glad that we are going to approve the agreement, but i am sorry that it is so entrenched, that so many extremists here and elsewhere have spent so much time and energy trying to stop a cooperation and trade agreement with canada; that with lies or 'alternative facts', as they might be called these days, they have tried to hijack this agreement in order to pursue their own agenda on the right and left of nationalism and socialism.
it will open bidders for a public procurement on eu businesses, and it will also protect our environmental and social standards.
while it is positive to have increased mobility, we must also recognise that emissions from aviation are escalating climate change.
we need a policy that increases mobility but reduces emissions.
for us green people, it is of the utmost importance that aviation - like all other modes of transport - pays its climate costs and reduces its environmental impact.
neither current emissions trading, technological development, nor other initiatives, such as green flights, are sufficient to achieve this.
we want to create a level playing field that improves the competitiveness of environmentally friendly alternatives such as the development of high-speed lines, comfortable night trains or even support for the development of more sustainable aviation fuels.
finally, yesterday we voted on the reform of the eu emissions trading system.
it was also intended to put a clear price on the climate impact of aviation.
therefore, individual member states must be able to take the lead in showing green leadership and putting a fair price on the climate impact of aviation.
we therefore vote green against this aviation strategy, which unilaterally prioritises short-term growth and competitiveness and refuses to take responsibility for the climate.
isidro baldenegro lópez was a farmer, environmental activist and leader of the indigenous people of tarahumara.
a year ago, berta cáceres, another indigenous leader and environmental activist in honduras, was murdered.
latin america, says the economist, is the deadliest place in the world for those fighting to save nature and the environment.
we need to allocate more resources to hotlines, to help report disappearances and build trust with migrant children to prevent them from running away, to make sure children remain in the protection system and to provide them with a safe environment and decent living standards.
as a green member, i really see that well-being and balance in life are linked to a sustainable society.
tackling mental illness in the community is about a sustainable society - a society where everyone has a place to grow based on their particular circumstances.
eventually, this decision might also impact on our sustainable development goals, targets to reduce maternal mortality, and to empower women to take more informed decisions about their health.
i therefore urge you not to sign the rome declaration unless it contains sufficient texts that prioritise fair working conditions, sustainable climate and energy policies and respect for human rights.
where we greens see a coming climate catastrophe, unfortunately others see a business opportunity.
the greens therefore want to ban the exploitation of oil, gas and other natural resources, which risk damaging the climate and the fragile arctic environment.
only then can we protect the arctic and only then can we achieve the climate goals we have set ourselves.
if we are to meet our climate goals of a maximum of 1.5 degrees of warming, all extraction of oil and gas must be banned.
one of the things of particular importance to the greens is sustainable fishing, to keep stocks above levels that can reduce maximum sustainable yield (msy).
reliable stock assessment, including fmsy, is essential to establish fisheries conservation measures, and to ensure that fishing is environmentally sustainable and economically profitable.
it is essential that they are free to operate in an environment that protects fundamental human rights and freedoms, as set out in zimbabwe’s constitution.
continued political and economic reforms are essential to restore growth and achieve inclusive and sustainable development.
recently, environmental activist mia mascariñas-green was murdered in her car in front of her three children.
it's not sustainable -- it's not sustainable morally, and it's not sustainable politically.
the fact that the eu today clings on to countries like turkey and libya is not the result of an ambition to find a sustainable solution in this situation.
it is also clear that we cannot reach sustainable development goals without the active participation of women, and investing in women is the way forward.
if we're going to cope with climate change and the world's population growth, we need to be more resource efficient in all areas.
the fight against food waste must therefore be a high priority for the eu.
food waste must be reduced and this week we are voting that it is a first step to reduce waste by 30% in eight years, and then by 50% in thirteen years.
all countries of the world have signed up to sustainable development goal 12.3 to reduce global food waste.
back in 2011, when we did the report in this parliament, i started a campaign in sweden called basta to food waste, a grassroots movement to get people to change their lifestyle without reducing their living standards.
therefore i very much welcome our vote today in favour of substantially reducing food waste, continuing to keep the issue high on our agenda and raising awareness.
we have voted to have a common definition and common methodology to measure food waste, and that will also help us to exchange good practices.
they must be voluntary, dignified and sustainable.
for me it is quite important to be very focused on these three preconditions – voluntary, dignified and sustainable.
the extreme climate conditions exacerbate the effects of chronic conflict and instability.
we have to make sure that the entire union is able to benefit from the economic development, and a transition to a sustainable society and social equality, which the cohesion policy helps promote.
then there's the debate on food waste in europe, about 90 million tons of food waste.
in the pursuit of the climate target we agreed in paris, the road transport sector is one of europe's greatest challenges, accounting for over 20% of eu carbon emissions and requiring comprehensive solutions to make the transition to a sustainable transport system a reality.
the proposal for a revision of the eurovignette directive recognises that the road transport sector needs to consider the costs of climate change.
it is a good first step, but the bold proposals for reducing climate impact still shine with their absence.
in order to enable the transition to a sustainable transport system, it is crucial to create a level playing field to address the unfair competitive situation in the sector, while allowing member states to lead by taking the lead in the green transition.
today’s world is characterised by increasingly complex challenges – climate change, displacement, pandemics, extremism, population movements etc.
next week, many of the world's leaders will gather in new york to discuss how we can coordinate to manage our oceans responsibly within the framework of the un's sustainable development goals agenda.
it is just the first step in a partnership that could become a force for the oceans, like the work being done to slow climate change.
the earth's climate and our oceans are intimately linked.
the oceans are needed to regulate the climate, to provide us with vital food, water and, most importantly, oxygen.
moreover, illegal fishing is undermining all efforts to conserve and manage our common fisheries resources in a sustainable way.
i am delighted that the industry, research and energy committee (itre) adopted my proposal – in the context of the paris agreement – to prioritise funding for climate change research.
itre also supported my proposal concerning the need to ensure that 100% of the energy challenge funds are allocated to green energy research and innovation.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur on a very good job, and in particular a thought to our colleague gerben-jan gerbrandy, who unfortunately cannot be here this week for personal reasons, but who has put in a very hard work to ensure that we can deliver a broad compromise in this house that carries forward climate policy in a responsible way.
i also think it is extremely important that we do not allow the president of the united states to set the agenda for european climate policy.
now, when donald trump chooses to turn away from ambition and from climate responsibility, we actually have a huge opening for europe to do even more that will lead to us getting innovations, that we get new businesses, and that we can lead a technological development towards a better world, that creates the industry of tomorrow and the energy supply of tomorrow.
the part we're talking about now, effort sharing, is an important part of the climate package, along with the ets, where we do business, and which is more about industry.
but it is also important that the energy package we have on the table now becomes good and powerful legislation that builds on what we are now saying we are going to do through effort sharing.
there is also a lot to be done on the renewable energy directive, for example.
there is a risk that, in the interest of saving the environment, we will reject renewable fuels, which are the ones that will actually make us cope with the energy transition and create new jobs in rural areas and for european agriculture.
therefore, the country has allowed russia to take over an enormously large part of its energy infrastructure.
the problem is, of course, that if serbian foreign policy can be blackmailed by russia through energy, the eu would be blackmailed as well.
the same study i referred to shows that we should take a shared responsibility for migration, a shared responsibility for climate change and for the fight against terrorism.
the collaborative economy goes hand—in—hand with the circular economy, creating sustainable ways of using goods and services and allowing a better allocation of resources.
the european union must ensure that european arms exports are reduced, not increased, and must devote all its foreign policy energy to diplomacy, human rights, democratic development and sustainable development.
citizens say in the latest eurobarometer, more than 70 percent say, that when it comes to fighting terrorism, climate change and first and foremost all policies now need to focus on building an asylum and migration policy where everyone takes a shared responsibility.
it is very important for this union and for our future that we should actually be able to create a policy which is sustainable and in which each country has its proportionate share of the common responsibility.
i also thank the council, and in particular the maltese and slovak presidencies, for their efforts to reach the agreement on the european fund for sustainable development, which delivers on the request of the european council to do so in the first semester of 2017. our ambition must now be to quickly start the implementation of the external investment plan with a view to present tangible progress to the eu-africa summit in abidjan and to the eastern partnership summit, both of them in november.
let me underline that the external investment plan with its european fund for sustainable development will become an important instrument for attaining the objectives of the un 2030 agenda and will complete our toolbox for development cooperation.
it has three pillars: financing, technical support and enhanced investment climate.
these must work hand in hand, and we are serious when we say that via the guarantees of the fund and existing investment facilities we want to leverage more than eur 44 billion of investments in africa and the neighbourhood until 2020. our ambition for the european fund for sustainable development is to go beyond existing instruments by supporting innovative financing models developed by partner financial institutions and an enhanced engagement of the private sector, in particular through the innovative new guarantee and the european fund for sustainable development.
under the european fund for sustainable development, our partners must be able to prove that this is not the case by bringing in new products, new ideas, investments sustainably and where they otherwise would not go.
this will give the european parliament the opportunity to participate in the steering and monitoring of the overall implementation strategies and objectives of the european fund for sustainable development.
mr president, the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) is for development.
i call on civil society to use the complaint mechanism and to let us know when there are faults and how to improve the work of securing human rights for sustainable development.
strasbourg is – and should remain – a european capital, but we do not want a symbol of peace to become a symbol of waste.
the court confirmed that the eu has exclusive competence for most matters that were included in the singapore fta, such as: trade in goods; trade in services, including transport; government procurement; intellectual property; competition; trade and sustainable development; foreign direct investment (fdi) liberalisation, and the substantive standards of protection for fdi.
this discussion will need to take into account the legal and political implications deriving from the court’s opinion: in particular, we will need to respond to the questions as to whether we consider that the status quo, meaning a similar ratification process as in the case of the fta with canada (ceta) is sustainable, or not.
the few countries you are talking about are the few countries that have been managing their forests in a sustainable way for years.
however, the eu takes many decisions that affect forests, not least in climate policy.
when we design climate policy, we need to use the incredible potential of forests to combat climate change, but we're not doing that today.
anyone who follows this debate might think that there are a great many people in this chamber who are opposed to the idea of having a basis for calculating the climate impact of forests.
i would also like to remind my colleagues on the environment committee, who seem to have completely forgotten that the committee on industry and the committee on agriculture have also dealt with this report by issuing opinions.
the inclusion of land use and forestry in lulucf, the eu's climate and energy framework, is very positive, but it must be done in such a way that the ambition of the framework is not reduced.
we must also reduce energy consumption and paper consumption.
we're going to focus on energy efficiency and recycling.
some of the most active, and in my view the most successful, lobbyists are our environmental organizations.
perhaps most disturbing is the view of the built environment and how the requirement to make it accessible to people with disabilities has now been removed.
the most central question in the whole reform is how to make fishing sustainable.
we decided, together with the council of ministers, in the basic regulation that fish stocks should be restored and maintained above levels that ensure maximum sustainable yield.
it is the only way to ensure that we have sustainable stocks in the long term.
then it is not sustainable to fish at a level which allows a mortality rate far above the maximum sustainable.
we all have an interest in sustainable fish stocks.
it is important to support this point if we are to guarantee long-term sustainability.
now the noc is building another pipeline that risks going against all of our climate and energy work that we're doing in the first place.
the biggest package of legislation we have at the moment is the clean energy for all europeans package.
here we have a responsibility for the whole of europe's security, for the climate, for energy.
only then can we ensure sustainable development and living space for all.
mr president, the presence of the fossil lobby at the climate conferences is a huge conflict of interest that we need to address.
politicians, scientists and civil society will be there to seek solutions to the climate crisis.
we need strong rules on conflicts of interest if we are going to be able to limit emissions so that we can stay below 1.5°c.
we have no time to waste.
the fossil lobby should not be allowed to pollute climate policy.
the climate change we are seeing in large parts of the world will contribute to political instability and an escalation of refugee flows.
by 2050, the un estimates that the world could have 200 million people displaced by climate change.
notes with concern that some 21,5 million people were forced to leave their homes between 2008 and 2013 due to natural disasters; it is important that we take the displacement and migration of people as a result of climate disasters seriously.
the un green climate fund will play an important role in financing adaptation needs in the most affected countries.
at the bonn climate summit, it is hoped that an action plan for greater gender equality will be negotiated and adopted.
i therefore call on the commission and our member states to help bring about a decision in bonn on an ambitious action plan with specific objectives, because we can forget about the climate if we do not invest in gender equality.
and finally: air travel must start paying for its climate impact, and the fossil fuel subsidies on air travel must end.
the question we have to ask ourselves is: does this proposal live up to its purpose of protecting the environment and public health?
the commission's proposal is neither compatible with eu law nor adequately protects human health and the environment against endocrine disrupting substances in pesticides.
they also say that this sector contributes to smart and sustainable growth for all.
smart and sustainable growth with decent jobs, social cohesion, social innovation and environmental protection.
social economy activities are always profit reinvestment, driven primarily by social and environmental objectives and not primarily by profit distribution to passive owners.
it is abundantly clear from the eurobarometer of may this year that citizens expect the union to deliver in areas like migration, defence, the environment and foreign affairs – more than two—thirds of citizens have asked the european union to deliver on that.
cancer is the single most serious and widespread cause of death related to the working environment.
i would also like to thank the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm), which gave a lot of input, so i feel very comfortable not putting all my energy into all that, because i know they will do their work.
and, as you know, we are setting up a permanent advisory group for all our trade agreements where businesses, trade unions, environmental organisations and consumer organisations will be involved, because we do want to listen to their advice, and that is part of the new, more inclusive trade policy.
i also wanted to bring up the climate aspect of this issue.
the climate can also benefit from more information.
indeed, information on the climate impact of air travel is an important complement to economic policy instruments to enable the customer to make informed decisions about his or her travel.
stopping flights is one example of something that increases the climate effect, and the type of aircraft an airline uses also makes a difference.
the greens want to evaluate the regulatory framework to provide protection for europe's consumers and support for them to make wise and climate-smart decisions.
the most common concerns remain within the areas of the environment, justice, fundamental rights and the internal market.
we are dependent on our environment and on our human actions, so we must protect the environment much more.
the environmental liability directive arose from the need for precisely common rules at eu level to protect the environment.
the implementation of the directive has been inconsistent, which has also led to inconsistent and incomplete recording of environmental damage.
the report therefore proposes clearer guidance documents for operators, the authorities concerned, environmental organisations and insurance companies.
we have to protect the environment.
it is important that we remedy significantly more environmental damage than is covered today.
we must therefore have common rules at eu level also for environmental damage involving air.
many studies also show that there has been no guidance or practice at national level for when an injury should be considered as a serious environmental injury.
we therefore propose that the commission develop public databases to enable businesses and citizens to become aware of the environmental liability directive and its application.
this would lead to better remediation and prevention of environmental damage.
it has also been a priority for our group, and i am glad that it is, that the commission develops the possibilities for collective proceedings for infringements of eu environmental legislation.
if we are serious about achieving the eu's sustainable development goals, we need to do much more.
it is therefore high time that the european commission revised this directive so that more harm to health and the environment is covered by the directive.
as one of the largest donors to the region, the eu has a role to play, both in promoting political dialogue to enable a sustainable and peaceful future for christians in the middle east and in involving the people living there in the negotiations on their future.
our joint work should now focus in particular on creating long-term political, economic and social conditions in africa conducive to sustainable and stable growth and development in the areas of peace, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance.
if we're going to meet our climate goals, the transportation sector needs to be reorganized.
are we going to leave a sustainable, habitable planet to our children and grandchildren?
– madam president, the energy union strategy is one of the main political initiatives of this commission, as president juncker said from day one, and we see it not only as a key contribution to addressing our energy and climate-change challenges but also as an opportunity to boost investment, jobs and growth.
the report gives us an opportunity to take stock of what has been achieved at both european union and national level, and outlines what must still be done in the future to ensure a successful energy transition in which all of society can participate and engage with the european union.
a clear message stands out already: the energy transition is happening and europe is moving at a fast pace from an energy system based on the 20th century to a low-carbon, more digital and consumer-centric system that is fit for the future.
we can see that the share of renewables in the european union energy mix continues to rise and we are on track to reach our 2020 target of 20%.
already today, the european union has successfully decoupled its greenhouse gas emissions from economic growth.
between 1990 and 2016 our gross domestic product in europe grew by 53%, while total greenhouse gas emissions declined by 23% over the same period.
the commission has delivered its part in implementing an energy union and the main legislative proposals provided for in the energy union strategy are now on the table.
two weeks ago we reached a milestone agreement on the emissions trading system, which, thanks notably to european parliament efforts, will be considerably strengthened for the next trading period.
this reflects a major political success enhancing the security of energy supply to the european union.
the negotiations on the clean energy for all europeans package are advancing and it is now up to the co-legislators to finalise it.
the first trilogue has already taken place on the revised energy performance of buildings directive, which we hope can be finalised by the end of this year.
despite substantial progress further efforts will clearly be needed to meet the european union’s energy efficiency targets, notably to prevent further increases in energy consumption as the cost of higher economic growth.
the energy efficiency progress report accompanying the state of the union closely monitors the progress towards a 20% target by 2020. this is a further reason why we must ensure that the revision of the energy efficiency directive and the energy performance of buildings directive contains a high level of ambition.
let me underline, in this context, that it is essential to have a strong governance system and to have integrated national energy and climate plans for the post-2020 period.
the two clean mobility packages proposed by the commission aim to help the sector to stay competitive in a socially fair transition towards clean energy …
member of the commission.
– […] besides the two clean mobility packages proposed by the commission aimed at helping the sector to stay competitive in a socially fair transition towards clean energy and digitalisation in the transport sector because greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise, which we are aiming to address with the clean mobility proposals we presented in november.
regarding our tailor—made support and assistance to regions in transition, the commission has always underlined the importance of a socially fair transition to clean energy, and it thanks parliament for its support.
with regard to the islands initiative, in may the commission, together with 14 member states, signed a political declaration in malta to accelerate the clean energy transition on islands and the first forum took place in crete in september.
energy poverty affects close to 50 million of our citizens.
this is not acceptable and the clean energy for all europeans package includes a range of measures to address this through energy efficiency measures, safeguards against disconnection and better definition and monitoring.
let me turn now to some of the initiatives associated with the third state of the energy union report: a new communication on infrastructure, addressing in particular implementation of the 15% interconnection target and the third list of projects of common interest (pcis).
there will be no energy transition if the energy infrastructure is not adapted to the needs of the future energy system.
interconnectors are the physical component of our ongoing energy transition.
the communication on infrastructure draws a picture of the progress made in the field of trans—european energy networks.
therefore the third list of projects of common interest identifies 173 pcis, among which there are 106 electricity projects, 53 gas projects, six oil projects, four smart-grid deployment projects and, for the first time, four co2 infrastructure projects to address greenhouse gas emission challenges.
finally, turning towards what still needs to be done, let me stress that the energy union has reached a critical juncture in order to make it a full success.
second: delivering the enabling framework with a focus on promoting investments at local level closer to the citizen, intensifying support for the transitioning of coal and carbon intensive regions, and ensuring that the efforts of industry are consistent with those of policymakers.
the launch of the clean energy industrial competitiveness forum will help us drive the process on.
this is key for the success of the energy transition.
as members of the european parliament, you can encourage and stimulate your constituents and representatives of civil society in your regions to get involved and support the clean energy transition.
i count on your continued support as only together will we be able to make use of the full potential of energy transition in terms of job creation, economic growth and attracting investments, and ensure a clean energy future and climate change mitigation for europe.
if you mean that we are increasing carbon dioxide more than we believe because of the imports, then you should also count the exports.
madam president, the whole idea with the energy union is to strengthen the independence and security of supply for the european union at the same time as we can develop a policy that is consistent with the paris agreement and our climate policies.
this underlines the need for well-functioning energy markets, allowing for the emergence of new energy sources, renewable energies and competitive prices.
that is why i think it is so important to have a focus on the market structures, allowing for cross-border trade, but also allowing for the new energy sources to develop under business competitiveness structures.
we have seen in history that planned economies are never successful regarding the environment or efficient energy production.
that is a requirement and a pre-condition for a competitive european energy market but also for fair competition.
nord stream is a threat to the energy union but also to competition in the energy union.
if it is managed properly, it will lead to us creating a more secure energy supply within the european union, to us managing significantly more of the capital that is used today to procure energy within the union, to us creating new businesses, to us having a growing renewable energy sector that also ensures that we create jobs throughout the european union.
i myself come from sweden, which is climate ambitious.
i come from a party which was one of the first in the world to speak about environmental policy in parliament.
we also saw the total chaos that came out of the environment committee vote.
we must now make sure that we take a clear responsibility and ensure that we get the same broad majority for the plenary vote on the remaining parts of the renewable energy directive as we had in the committee on industry.
only then will we succeed in the trilogues and only then will we have a functioning and successful energy union.
in paris two years ago, we made a promise to each other and to the world to do what is necessary to slow down climate change.
that is why i am concerned about the state of the energy union.
the latest example is yesterday's vote in the committee on industry, which unfortunately decided that the renewable energy targets should not be binding on member states.
we greens propose binding targets for member states of 35% renewable energy for the eu by 2030. it creates the pressure for green transition and innovation that is needed.
we managed to introduce several new rules to improve the sustainability of fisheries, both on the high seas and in private contracts.
chartering is the most obvious way to circumvent rules on both social and environmental sustainability.
fishing in open water will now require a scientific assessment to demonstrate the sustainability of the planned activities.
we also have the work of the un, our sustainable development goal 14 that stipulates healthy oceans, stopping overfishing and pollution.
our oceans play a crucial role as a buffer against the effects of climate change, so they absorb large amounts of carbon dioxide.
but both ocean acidification and global warming are affecting fish stocks and marine ecosystems, which are changing rapidly before our eyes.
we are far from managing our common resources in a sustainable way.
only then can we build a peaceful and sustainable world.
as we speak, aviation emissions continue to rise, and it is time for the eu to act now to reverse the trend and drastically reduce aviation emissions.
air travel has to pay for its share of climate change just like everyone else.
it is good that the eu is now taking a step forward to actually do so in terms of aviation's share of the eu's emissions trading.
it's three to four times more damaging to the climate when you put greenhouse gases up in the air, but even so, we count the emissions as if they were on the ground.
if you fly from stockholm to new york or bangkok, you are currently paying nothing for your climate impact, and that is not the way it should continue.
we need to reduce emissions from all air travel to and from all airports in the world.
these can be refugee crises, climate crises, but of course also security crises.
and then it must be more profitable to move freight traffic from roads to trains, and then the trucks will pay for their climate costs.
two, the plane has to pay for its climate impact.
it's unreasonable for an airplane to be able to evade the climate bill.
while it is good that the eu is now taking steps to start including aviation in the eu emissions trading scheme, we are still far from having to pay the full climate bill for aviation.
the climate is affected more when airplanes emit climate-damaging gases in the air than on the ground, but even so, it is not included in the system at the moment.
three: major investments in sustainable infrastructure.
but if we are to meet our climate goals, from now on, all investments must be made in a sustainable direction.
if we do this, we will make it easier for people in the future to do what is simple, cheap and smart for the climate.