let us think of energy policy.
without solidarity between the individual countries in energy policy we shall not have a common energy policy.
the first is the question of environmental protection in the case of transboundary damage.
in general, environmental protection shows a fatal tendency to ignore the problems of one's neighbour, even if one has caused them, often by acting recklessly.
we have tried to find a rule that the victims of these environmental problems should enjoy maximum protection and that environmental dumping, as the commissioner has also mentioned, should not take place.
if you succeed in making the renunciation of rich countries sexy, then you could end up politically like the successor of this very environment minister i mentioned and that would not be a bad thing for you and then possibly for the world!
for a long time, the prevailing view was that environmental protection and sustainable development were luxuries that could only be discussed and achieved after a certain level of development of a society.
sustainable development has become one of the millennium development goals, because poor people suffer much more directly from the effects of poor environmental conditions.
developing countries are also more affected by the consequences of climate change than the developed nations, which are the main contributors.
in this context, the commission's proposal to reduce co2 emissions from new cars from 2012 onwards across europe is to be welcomed.
in this report we once again call on the united states, but also on india and china, to ratify the kyoto protocol and to take responsibility, together with the european union, for sustainable development worldwide.
the creation of infrastructure can be an important element for sustainable development, but it is important to take into account social and environmental aspects as well.
we therefore call on the commission to carry out an environmental impact assessment of every project receiving union financial support and then to make it publicly available.
i am in favour of the recommendation to approve retrofit systems for the protection of vehicle occupants against unsecured baggage, as this will facilitate trade in motor vehicles between different contracting parties and ensure a high level of safety and environmental protection.
we should also be open to new approaches, such as micro-credit, which will put the poor on their feet in a sustainable way.
the trends in waste are worrying and the potential for waste prevention and recycling is far from being exploited.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety therefore advocates binding targets for reducing and avoiding waste and also that the five-level waste hierarchy should be the basis of future european waste policy.
i hope that the reports adopted by the committee on the environment will also receive a large majority in the plenary.
it is of the utmost importance that the distinction between waste disposal and recycling be maintained.
the commission proposal classified the thermal treatment of domestic and similar waste as recovery instead of disposal, provided that the incineration plants meet certain energy efficiency criteria.
this approach would have fatal consequences, namely, environmental dumping throughout europe and a sharp increase in waste tourism.
in future, waste could be transported across europe without any problems and legally, and incinerated where it is cheapest and most harmful to the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is compatible with the environment.
firstly, it is catering waste which is sterilized by a certain treatment process.
this is a subject of enormous importance to us and also reflects the circular idea of waste management, because waste from the food chain, which is not used by humans, can be used after sterilization in a meaningful way for animal feed.
the second point is bio-waste.
i would ask the commission to take the example of a few member states which have very well developed and already functioning systems for bio-waste and to come forward with a european proposal which can certainly complement the present one.
we must finally succeed in separating economic growth, which is generally desirable, from the growth in the volume of waste, both in relative and absolute terms.
the next step will be a new proposal to regulate certain additional waste treatment activities under the ippc directive.
i also agree with the emphasis placed on preventing waste and notably on the role chemicals policy and eco-design could play in this respect.
finally, the resolution you have approved proposes a number of additional measures for increasing recycling and recovery of waste.
let me now turn to the waste framework directive.
the commission can accept the stricter and clearer reference to a five-step waste hierarchy.
however, it is important that we recognise that the hierarchy needs to be applied in order to take the best environmental option.
the commission can also accept a number of useful clarifications with regard to some important definitions including waste prevention and recycling.
it needs to be applied by the authorities in order to process waste shipment decisions, and the recovery definition in the directive must be sufficiently clear and robust to allow this to happen.
otherwise, there will be frequent and unnecessary referrals to the court of justice and this would adversely affect recycling activities and the environmental benefit they can deliver.
secondly, it is important to deal with the grey area in the energy recovery definition with regard to classifying municipal incinerators, where the amendments proposed do not tackle the issue and weaken the level of environmental protection.
notably, a number of the amendments relating to hazardous waste would penalise businesses handling such waste for no apparent environmental benefit and in some cases are technically impossible to implement.
for example, it is not good for the environment to have a total ban on the mixing of hazardous waste with other waste: it could lead to substandard treatment of some kinds of hazardous waste.
more generally, it is essential that the work on developing common standards for the recycling market, such as the end-of-waste criteria, should be allowed to reach its full potential.
these standards are necessarily technical and must adapt to improvements in environmental performance in order not to become a drag on eco-innovation.
finally, i wanted to comment on the amendments relating to waste prevention.
waste prevention, as i said before, is one of the key elements of this revision.
i welcome the support for the waste prevention programmes in the report.
i also understand the approach behind the inclusion of a waste prevention target.
many speakers have asked for specific legislation, for example in areas such as bio-waste.
many other speakers raised issues which are not to be dealt with in this directive, such as illegal cross-border shipments of waste, for which we have special legislation.
municipal waste cannot be transported across borders for incineration, even if the municipal incinerator across the border is classified as recovery.
we have a prohibition on the dumping of waste in the developing world both in european union law and international law: the basel ban.
a few days ago, a directive was proposed to punish environmental crimes.
soil pollution from illegal landfilling is covered by the landfill directive and the soil thematic strategy.
the conclusion must be that the role of the waste framework directive is not to deal with special dysfunctions.
we welcome some of the suggestions, such as maintaining the energy efficiency formula as a basis for distinguishing between recovery and disposal for municipal incinerators, but we cannot accept certain other amendments.
to sum up, i am pleased to say that the commission can accept 42 of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety – 15 in full and 27 in principle or in part.
the inspire data system is an essential achievement for us in europe, because we need spatial data that are comparable for all policies, especially in the environmental field.
only in this way can we ensure that citizens are informed about the environmental risks they face and can participate in the systems we are building in europe.
in the revision of this waste framework directive, two things were particularly important to us austrians: the first is the special regulation for bio-waste, since we and germany have very well functioning systems which must be maintained.
the second was catering and inn waste, which can be reused in pig farming after appropriate treatment.
slowly but surely, a social rethinking is taking place around the issue of waste.
but as more countries are working off their waste and operators are trying to use up their facilities, waste is being transported across europe.
even though attention is now being paid to the environment, there are still black sheep who illegally dump large and small quantities of waste or collect for the waste they accept without providing for costly recycling.
we must also not forget that the disposal of nuclear waste is still not resolved.
i do not think it is the purpose of eco-energy either that nuclear power should be used to produce it or that bio-gasoline should lead to food shortages, as in mexico.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
the constitution provides for europe to have greater powers in energy policy.
well, we don't have the constitution yet, so we have to try to get this stronger energy policy competence in other ways, particularly - and minister gloser has also mentioned this - on the foreign policy side.
if we do not present ourselves clearly and distinctly as europe on international markets, we will not be able to do what we have to do for our people, namely to ensure the security of energy supplies in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of a new energy policy, the introduction of new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new energy policy, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new technology, the new, the new, the new, the old, the new, the new, the new, the new, the new, the new we have enough goals, actions create credibility and trust.
the interparliamentary meeting in brussels last week showed that colleagues from the individual member states have taken all the criticisms and demands concerning education, employment, social security, climate protection, etc.
one of the real challenges is the energy picture for 2010. there are proposals for a 10% blend of bioethanol, biodiesel and renewable energy.
i would like to make it clear that the austrian ppp delegation has always been a clear advocate of committed climate action.
we have voted against this resolution because it is an attempt to introduce nuclear energy through the back door.
we have also always been clear about rejecting this form of energy because we believe it has no future.
i was very surprised that so few of the declared opponents of nuclear energy - especially the social democrats and the green group - had nevertheless voted in favour of this report.
let us make energy optimisation and the strengthening of innovation by small and medium-sized enterprises the model of the european economic area, and improve - we save to create the scope for the necessary investments - the structures of economic policy to make us more sustainable in global competition.
in recent weeks, the issue that is likely to concern the next generation or generations most has finally been at the top of the political agenda: climate change.
in this context, i would encourage you to review all your activities to see where you continue to promote things that we already know will eventually come back to haunt us because of climate change.
i refer, of course, to paragraph 6 of the report, the action plan for energy.
the subject of renewable energy is an infinitely large field, as is transport.
take care of this ecological framework.
i am voting for the action plan to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, because it is a major problem worldwide, which leads to a significant deterioration in the ecological state, contributes to overfishing of commercial and non-commercial fish stocks and other living creatures and causes difficulties for those social groups in developing and industrialized countries for whom fishing is the basis of their livelihood.
i would like to start with a positive example, energy policy, and in this context, of course, climate policy, a subject which is very close to your heart.
it was absolutely right to insist that there should be binding targets, especially for renewable energy.
it is also important to go further in our external energy policy and to say that we want to diversify and to support diversification.
it is absolutely essential that we also appoint the commission coordinators who will ensure that we make the various arrangements for energy supplies.
if the polish government thinks it should develop an energy policy together with ukraine and some of the countries of the south caucasus, i hope that the commission will support it in the sense of a pan-european energy policy.
secondly, also on external energy policy: i know that the commission is preparing a number of measures concerning cooperation with the black sea region and the mediterranean region.
it is important that the commission does not allow itself to be hindered by the council in its proposals on energy cooperation, migration policy and, in particular, visa policy.
you yourself say that in the last documents you have published - whether they concern the internal market for citizens or the establishment of the social reality in europe - you have clearly stated why this scepticism and this distance have arisen and that the internal market only makes sense if the environmental and social consequences are also considered and these elements are also strengthened.
there is real urgency in obtaining this proposal, especially as far as energy is concerned.
the question of air transport emissions has unfortunately been largely ignored, although we must be aware that, in the face of the climate problem, air transport will also have to contribute to reducing the atmospheric pollution.
the council decided this weekend to impose rules for a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020. do you think that our strength in europe, namely the production of diesel engines, could be enforced by a strategy of excellence in the field of efficiency, i.e.
another future challenge will be to reduce emissions from aviation to an acceptable level and to align them with the european union's climate target.
the commission is not we also regard the eu summit on climate change as a positive event, but more in terms of its intentions than its results.
on the one hand, it is good and important for our future that climate targets were agreed at the eu summit, but on the other hand, it is a sad fact that such commitments are often not even worth the paper they are written on.
what is the point of reaching an agreement to reduce co2 emissions by one fifth by 2020 if the eu's usual practice is to postpone the finalisation of problematic details?
i think that we have not made any progress in the field of nuclear energy.
the disposal of radioactive waste remains unsolved, as does the safety of nuclear power stations and the effects of nuclear radiation are far from being fully understood.
the european union has not yet succeeded in making a clear commitment to reduce nuclear energy.
instead, the danger of global warming should be tackled with nuclear risk - a risky thing in my view.
it is also good that the eu is taking a leading role in climate action.
but since it only accounts for 15% of global carbon dioxide emissions, these are just small fish.
alone, without the big climate sinners india, china, south korea, japan, australia and the united states, which are responsible for almost half of the world's greenhouse gas production, we will make little headway in the fight against climate change.
it has long been known that the developing countries, especially the energy-wasting united states, do not give a damn about the environment.
it is a shame that even us military bases in europe have not been environmentally friendly in any way and that abandoned us bases have almost become special waste dumps.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies.
in 1997, the industrialized countries committed themselves to reducing their greenhouse gas emissions.
the eu has gone from increasing its own share of renewable energy to 12% to just 8%.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of climate change is a very important one.
ladies and gentlemen, the first step in the right direction towards a common energy and climate policy has been taken, and we welcome the fact that no hot air has been produced.
the environment for political decision-making has improved, but we are far from there.
climate and energy policy must strengthen the lisbon strategy, not distract from it.
thirdly, when will we receive the research programme, the necessary funding concepts and the energy saving roadmap from the commission and the national governments?
i therefore consider the decision to obtain 20% of our energy from renewable sources and to achieve a 20% reduction in co2 emissions in the eu by 2020 to be essential.
i am aware, and i think my colleagues will agree, that these steps are only the beginning, and more efforts will have to follow to ensure a lasting and sustainable climate protection.
i am convinced, however, that new and strict environmental standards will not be an economic disadvantage for europe, but on the contrary will lead europe in new technologies.
in this way we will both help our environment and secure quality jobs in europe in the long term.
i also call for increased efforts to convince the big environmental offenders, such as the usa or china, of the importance of climate protection, because only together can sustainable success be achieved.
the fundamental rights test cannot be smuggled into the social, environmental and economic criteria.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the environmental aspects of the directive are not overlooked.
we have adopted a directive on energy efficiency for building permits.
do you know of any european union building where the energy efficiency of the building is indicated by a sign at the entrance?
what is your view of the development of water policy and waste water strategy, particularly in less-favoured areas?
of course, environmental protection also plays a major role.
this must be accompanied by an environmental initiative to reduce emissions and noise pollution, so that this growth in air traffic is not accompanied by an extreme increase in emissions.
but we can create the conditions for a common air traffic management system which will reduce emissions and make life easier for passengers and air traffic personnel.
one of these measures is the present proposal for a directive which is now being incorporated into the compromise package which we will be voting on tomorrow in order to reduce the risks to human health, the environment, infrastructure and the economy from flooding.
in particular, we couldn't understand why so little attention was paid to the phenomenon of climate change.
we have succeeded in including the aspect of climate change in the negotiations with the council, which is now running like a red thread through all the points.
in summary, we have made small changes to the timetables, we have increased floodplains and natural backing, we have promoted sustainable land use and we have helped to break the principle of solidarity in all corners.
so if we are to take seriously the goals of preserving natural habitats and taking climate change seriously, we will have to take new, innovative paths.
floods will increase as a result of climate change, poor river management and construction in flood-prone areas.
in addition to economic and social damage, flooding can have serious environmental effects, for example by flooding factories where large quantities of toxic chemicals are stored.
it is important for the european parliament that the impact of climate change is taken into account in the assessment of flood risk.
it would have been difficult to disseminate the idea of excluding climate change from the assessment and evaluation of flood risk.
the current state of affairs, with the different and unprofessional application of this regulation by airports, and therefore many travellers not knowing exactly what items they are allowed to take with them and which rules actually exist, is not sustainable and is causing understandable public discontent.
if we fail to secure sustainable jobs in rural areas, purchasing power will continue to decline.
i have to say, madam president, we are adopting tomorrow, at third and final reading, the regulation on the financial instrument for the environment (life+).
the implementation, updating and further development of the community's environmental policy and legislation are the general objectives of life+.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
it is also essential, as the rapporteur has pointed out, to tackle pollution at its source and to address diffuse sources of pollution through common methods.
as an austrian and a citizen of a country with very large water resources, i believe that we should no longer finance intensive agriculture, which brings with it problems such as over-fertilization, for a sustainable and environmentally conscious water policy.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i therefore call for the regulations on noise pollution from railway vehicles to be changed as soon as possible to lower maximum values and for noise-reduction measures to be promoted, as well as the development of transeuropean networks.
if you look at what's in the waste statement, there's a 60 percent increase in the contingency expenditure, an explosion in the redevelopment from 17 million to 27 million, especially for architectural and engineering costs.
but you don't want to, you waste.
i tell you, if the people really knew what was going on here, they would not call this parliament a democratic parliament but a den of arbitrariness and waste!
it is therefore our responsibility to secure the future of european fruit and vegetable growers by creating a safety net through targeted aid to link sustainable production with high quality and a healthy environment.
i would like to thank you in particular for the energy club in this house, but i also pay the utmost respect to the staff of this house.
this event was broadcast worldwide and had the positive effect of not only enabling parliament to legislate but also providing incentives to gather the best ideas from around the world, making a very useful contribution to the climate debate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
energy supplies are being used as a strategic and political weapon, as we should have been aware of since the russian-ukrainian conflict at the latest.
the censored passages, after a long debate on the waste of money and the control of the european commission, are in an addendum - perhaps mr president, you can rest assured - in an addendum which has been attached for those who are interested.
it is important that we have a european strategy on mercury, as it is one of the most serious environmental toxins, and europe certainly needs to be at the forefront of this.
what initiatives does the presidency intend to take in the field of economic policy, particularly in the field of energy policy?
could you imagine using the sme charter or the energy charter, for example, as a way of countering unemployment in the economic process and of implementing the lisbon agenda in an attractive way?
i would like to congratulate commissioner kuneva and the rapporteur, because the digital environment is becoming increasingly important to us and we must of course also make sure that it is affordable for the european public.
this scheme will now make it possible for the first time to achieve better prices through greater transparency and therefore to make the digital environment future-oriented in the mobile sector as well.
perhaps now i can shake up the world view of my colleague renate sommer: it is not just green members, but the majority in this house, who wanted a consumer- and environment-friendly solution to the authorization and labelling of genetically modified food and feed.
as you know, next week we are discussing in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety the question of how to deal with the individual authorization of genetically modified organisms in the context of the comitology and the regulatory procedure with control.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new energy policy, which is to be submitted to the council in the near future.
we need stronger national regulators working together on a european level; we need a harmonized framework so that a common energy policy can be pursued in this sector in europe.
the security of supply must be guaranteed, especially for the socially vulnerable, who cannot keep up with the increase in energy prices, however much they may want to.
this is the crucial factor: those who, despite social assistance and support, cannot pay, must still be supplied with energy.
we have the right to decide what we want to produce our energy from in the future.
the commission is not in the face of global challenges such as climate change, import dependence and increasing energy consumption, we should all take responsibility and pursue an integrated european energy policy.
the creation of a single european internal energy market is undoubtedly one of the top priorities for the near future.
the commission's efforts to increase the coherence of european energy policy through the third energy liberalisation package and a new energy policy strategy for europe are therefore most welcome.
however, it is important that the best pathway to a competitive integrated european internal energy market is chosen.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
the key point is that - and we were the first to agree on this in the committee on industry, research and energy - there is a universal service, that citizens, whether they live in a city or in a remote region, whether they are poor or rich, are guaranteed that the postal services or administrations provide the services they need.
competition has always been positive when it has taken place in a good environment.
the workers who provide the sustainable added value of economies are increasingly becoming the plaything of purely capitalist interests.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a manner which is compatible with the environment.
do you see any chance that, with the liberalisation of the energy market, the conditions for final storage and decommissioning will also be subject to common standards?
the commission's mid-term review rightly points to a number of successes of the common transport policy and, above all, to the increasingly better alignment of transport policy priorities with other policies, with the internal market on the one hand and environmental policy on the other.
the report on the implementation of the 1st railway package has shown that it has not led to a sustainable revival of rail transport nor to a noticeable shift of freight from road to rail.
however, rail transport must become the 'core' of eu transport policy because of the following aspects: increasing congestion, growing emissions, limited energy resources and increasing road casualties.
the environmental costs incurred, must be taken into account.
in view of the negative environmental impact of transport, i would point out that it has been shown that even a modest shift in transport would significantly reduce congestion on the road.
for this reason, i look forward to the commission's assessment of external environmental costs by 2008.
in writing.
if we want to make environmental protection a priority, as is the case for the giant lorries, we must make a greater effort to promote environmentally friendly drive systems.
the summer of 2007 was marked by particularly dramatic forest fires and severe flooding, with considerable material and environmental damage.
we are in favour of the removal of restrictions on the internal market in order to promote the positive effects associated with it, such as sustainable growth, while also paying due attention to the social protection of citizens.
i regret that paragraph 16 unnecessarily refers specifically to nuclear energy.
a major problem is the disposal of dead domestic and wild animals, which must be tackled as quickly as possible to stop the risk of disease and also reduce the environmental impact.
i believe that this includes in particular the special provisions for the protection of the environment and the possibility of prohibiting or restricting the transport of certain dangerous goods.
as a green person, i am naturally in favour of any improvement in logistics, because it can help to limit environmental damage.
as a result, millions of goods vehicles are on the road every day, from cars to heavy goods vehicles, and the negative effects of congestion, noise, pollution and particulate matter are exploding.
smarter solutions to increase efficiency, but also in the interests of environmental and health protection.
this is not in the interests of transport policy, and above all not in the interests of health and environmental policy.
i have to say, madam president, we all share a common concern in european transport policy: we want to increase the efficiency of all transport, especially air transport, without increasing the environmental impact.
we even want to improve the environmental footprint of flying if possible.
we in europe are doing a lot of thinking about this: emissions trading.
in conclusion, i would like to say that the increase in production prices for farmers is finally happening directly, but it is certainly not due to the fact that we are now producing bioenergy, but above all to the disasters we have had in the environment and the better markets in the eu and outside the eu, in other words in third countries.
it is important for us to focus on the bottom-up strategy, the lisbon agenda, and we should see that jobs and growth are achieved primarily through energy efficiency targets.
with insulation, with many other energy-enhancing measures, we can create a real economic boost and a win-win situation.
i believe that putting renewable energy at the centre of the agenda is also an important approach to security of supply.
energy that grows in our latitudes is always available to us.
we should ensure that the 20% share of renewable energy in final energy consumption is actually reached by 2020. what we need are eu-wide criteria for support measures, for incentives, for subsidies, for taxation, for the whole financial framework that needs to be designed here.
we need harmonised planning procedures with a one-stop mechanism where within a certain time - within three years at most - approval procedures can be carried out so that energy generation is available at the right time.
and we need the right of the consumer to order 100 percent renewable energy from their supplier and have a secure energy supply for decades to come.
nuclear energy is not renewable energy and therefore i would ask that it be dealt with in a separate report.
energy supply is a growing challenge, not just in the european union but worldwide.
the use of renewable energy sources is of key importance both for ensuring future security of supply and for making a decisive contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
there is also a need to increase investment in research and development of new technologies, whether in the transport sector, for example in research into new fuel sources or the construction of new engines, or in the thermal or energy use of resources, such as heating, electricity generation, insulation and many others.
the main point is the energy saving aspect.
the opportunity of decentralised production of energy and biofuels from renewable materials must be exploited, because this also allows for sustainable energy production and the use of raw materials that are available locally.
the use of agricultural products for energy production certainly does not come at the expense of an adequate food supply, since there is sufficient production area and it can be used in sufficient quantities.
in addition, the use of renewable raw materials can also make a significant contribution to the economic development of rural areas, having a positive impact not only on land use in a normal crop rotation but also, and above all, on employment and job creation in rural areas.
renewable energy must play a significant role in our future energy policy.
nuclear energy must not play a role in this scenario, as there are still unresolved safety issues.
renewable energy is our future.
the european council agreed in march to meet 20% of the eu's total energy needs from renewable sources by 2020. the heads of state or government have thus taken an important step and have made a clear commitment to increase the promotion of renewable energies.
i therefore call on the commission to come forward with a forward-looking proposal for a regulatory framework for renewable energy.
for too long, the focus on expensive nuclear power has prevented the development of other energy technologies.
the budget for nuclear research is still seven to eight times that for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
if the eu is really serious about its renewable energy roadmap, it must ensure that funding is distributed more equitably, but there is no mention of this in the report on which this vote is based.
they have stressed the need to strengthen public transport, improve road safety, and take environmental aspects into account in road safety training and satellite navigation.
one of these compromises has just been mentioned and concerns the commissioner for energy.
if this happens, it will of course involve not only the foreign policy-makers but also the energy policy-makers of the commission.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy situation in the community.
the last point i would like to mention is a very difficult chapter which is also included in the motion, namely the relationship between energy policy and human rights policy.
we cannot say that we will no longer be getting energy from these countries.
but it has to lead us to do both, if we want to remain credible, to do energy policy, but also human rights policy and to promote the human rights situation in these countries.
we cannot say that we are getting energy and are not interested in anything else.
the demand for food, feed and renewable raw materials is constantly increasing, and it is therefore imperative to have these areas in production.
this is also an opportunity for agriculture to contribute to the eu's major targets for reducing co2 emissions.
this operation represents both a risk and an opportunity: a risk because of the extremely difficult political environment in this conflict-ridden region and, on the other hand, an opportunity to show that the european union has developed foreign and military capabilities and can actually intervene in this region to protect refugees.
i would like to ask the presidency how it is dealing with the phenomenon of climate change in relation to fishing quotas.
we all know that climate change is currently being buffered by the ocean's strong heat absorption.
80% of the energy is still being stored here.
but it is also expected that the marine environment will also be massively warmed in the future.
how does the presidency ensure that this new scientific knowledge is taken into account and that the aquatic environment is taken into account when setting fishing quotas?
in the context of the negotiations on the association agreement with the countries of central america, a gender equality study shall be carried out as part of the sustainability review.
the issues of aviation safety, environmental protection and property rights are still on the table.
on the one hand, there was an unbridled euphoria of growth, which is really just about building more airports to relieve the old ones, and on the other hand, there was concern that there were also the issues of organisation and, of course, the responsibility for environmental protection and airport trainers.
importing organic products from the other side of the world not only goes against various environmental objectives, but is also a reason for increased transport burden and a long-standing expression of the union's failed promotion policy.
i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
building an efficient eco-car is a necessity in the face of climate change.
that is why i have campaigned in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for more transparent, easier to understand information on the emissions of vehicles.
i would like to make two points: first, the one thing we probably and hopefully share most: this is the view that conventional energy sources and forms and technologies will continue to play a major role in the future.
the idea that we can replace all of this with alternative energy is an illusion.
the security, not only of the energy production process, but also of course of the final storage, and - which is very important in today's world, where the global is becoming more important - the issue of non-proliferation of nuclear technologies, which can then be used for military purposes.
the proposal for a directive on a community framework for action on the sustainable use of pesticides is important because, despite the existing framework, there are still worrying levels of certain pesticides in soil, air and water.
at the same time, the climate change committee voted on the hassi report, which is the basis for the european parliament's position on the un climate conference.
the new european union policy on the use of pesticides is an important step towards better health and environmental protection.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very important one.
the proposed system is misleading and would be grossly contrary to the objective of sustainable use of pesticides.
as i said, i still believe that as a farmer, the first priority is the production of healthy food, the second priority is the production of animal feed and the third priority is the production of energy resources.
it has not happened, and it has not happened, because russia certainly has higher revenues and greater power for international political action as a result of rising energy prices.
to ensure future energy supply, eu member states have been working together on energy security since the 1990s.
the energy charter is a key instrument in this context.
the aim of this treaty is to develop the energy potential of the eastern european countries and to ensure the continued supply of energy to the eu member states.
the lack of ratification of the energy charter by russia is a cause for concern in the light of the increasing intermingling of foreign policy and foreign economic interests with energy supply issues.
i call on both the commission and the council to reject russian attempts to gain unilateral advantage in european energy markets.
the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides is an important complement to the proposal for a regulation and directive which was voted on today at first reading.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in a position to take account of the specific needs of the community.
if it really should be so - and there are studies and figures to prove it - that nuclear energy should have a massive impact on our co2 reductions, then we would have to have a multiplication of the current power plants.
that is why - and i will speak about this in my next report - good measures on energy efficiency, but also on reducing co2 emissions from cars, would be the better way to make europe fit and to convince other countries and continents.
in principle, we all agree that we need more energy efficiency and more rational energy transmission and that the expansion of renewable energy sources is important.
however, the promotion of renewable energy should not be used as a pretext to further restrict the sovereignty of the member states through the back door in the wake of the eu constitution.
despite the continued expansion of renewable energy sources, we will remain dependent on conventional energy production for decades to come and therefore also need to ensure that it is more environmentally friendly.
however, the eu still seems to be too fixated on nuclear power plants, reflected not only in their promotion as 'environmentally friendly energy suppliers' - a mockery in itself - but also in the high-funded nuclear research budget.
i have to say, madam president, we still have the law with which parliament can show that we take climate protection seriously in europe, and we must mobilise all our forces to make the law that we did not vote on today.
i am sorry that we have not made it clear that we want a maximum of 120 grams per kilometre from 2012. that is what the industry promised us more than ten years ago with the proposal to regulate itself, because that would be better and more efficient, and i would have liked to have seen a clear signal on climate policy from this house.
that is why i voted against the report and i hope that we will have more courage and more courage in the legislature to take climate change in europe seriously.
that means that all costs are included, and that includes the environmental costs of this very co2 emission from the aircraft.
we know that carbon emissions, especially at high altitudes, have a much worse effect than carbon emissions on the ground.
this too must be taken into account when we talk about the inclusion of these aviation emissions.
secondly, of course, we have the potential to introduce various management measures to prevent these co2 emissions.
we have seen it in the case of air quality regulations: there are and have been actions where heads of state and government, but also the environment ministers, have already gone too far in the first reading.
the environment, transport, the economy and industry are not yet part of a reasonable compromise, but i believe that they will be after the outcome of tomorrow's vote.
now we just have to get the rest of the world to come along and do something for the environment.
the focus on sustainable europe is partly due to our focus on climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environmental performance of the european union, such as the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, and the introduction of new environmental laws.
it also emerges from different estimates by the european commission that some of our decisions to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020 would already be met if existing laws were respected.
the commission has also been active in the field of the protection of the environment, and has recently launched a new programme for the protection of the environment.
that is why the bureaucracy, the waste of billions and - yes - the wrong political recruitment of elites in europe are now at the heart of the problem.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to join in the many congratulations to the rapporteur on this good, factual report, which also received a good majority in the committee on climate change.
the resolution also makes it clear that we expect results by 2009. and we as the european parliament must also send very clear political messages to the rest of the world, to the other continents, in the legislative acts we are going to adopt - it has already been mentioned today: the inclusion of air transport in the emissions trading scheme, but also in co2 emissions from motor vehicles.
my delegation cannot support sending the signal that nuclear power is an essential element in combating climate change.
in our union we can now be proud of important developments, not only in the traditional sense but also in terms of social policy: reconciliation of family and work, the prohibition of child labour, health protection for all and a high level of environmental and consumer protection.
to protect the environment effectively, eu policies must take greater account of the world's oceans, and in particular those of europe.
this marine strategy framework directive responds to the challenges posed by climate change and provides for action by both the eu and the member states.
the first step towards taking appropriate action at european level is to establish a common set of criteria for the environmental status of the seas.
the directive also requires member states to achieve good environmental status by 2017 and to adopt the necessary regulations.
in the spirit of the report, i call on the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that marine pollution can be detected and traced, so that the polluter pays principle can be applied.
the eu's existing efforts to store co2 on the seabed need to be strengthened as an innovative contribution to the fight against climate change.
to tackle climate change effectively, we must not close ourselves off to innovation, but integrate it into a broad eu environmental policy.
the first priority is therefore to replace very quickly the main sources of pollution emissions, such as commercial vehicles with aging diesel engines.
as regards transport - one of the main sources of air pollution in my own country - it must be said that here too the commission is not prepared to support actions taken by countries to comply with air quality limit values.
the eu must immediately devote itself to these important and urgent impact studies, prepare for an exit from nuclear energy and leave the decision on the use of genetic engineering to the member states themselves.
on the other hand, it is an energy product and therefore part of the market access for non-agricultural products (nama).
when my constituency discusses energy trade, energy policy, the european commission, the new treaty and, in particular, the wto, the fear always arises: we will then have to import nuclear energy - we cannot help it - and we may even have to build nuclear power stations if things continue like this!
it is the fact that in one country criminal law is established and then this garbage or this waste is taken to another country.
we all hope, of course, that we can now move forward just as quickly on the question of the airspace block, which is still very much failing the interests of individual member states, which is extremely unfortunate and ultimately also a great disservice to the reduction of emissions in air transport.
the recognition of this profession must continue, and the task of the future will also be to reduce emissions and make aviation a little less harmful to the climate than it is now.
we cannot wait until the environmental impact of the bicycle has been calculated, but we must act now.
the member states can no longer bear this burden alone and they should not have to bear the environmental damage alone for long.
the car industry is complaining about climate protection, it's complaining about the lack of design protection.
however, a treaty can only create the conditions, and it is important that the will and the energy to pursue a common foreign and security policy also exist.
apart from the intense technical discussion on changes in taste, there is also a climate policy aspect to be noted.
apart from the intense technical discussion on changes in taste, there is also a climate policy aspect to be noted.
we want to have a more environmentally oriented china, because the environment is an important global commons.
we know that in china many initiatives are being launched to protest massively against the violation of minimum ecological and environmental standards.
but also in the energy field, energy efficiency and renewable energy are a huge challenge and offer completely new opportunities, especially in montenegro.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
i think there is a way out of this dead end of bureaucracy and waste into which you have maneuvered yourself; that would be the referendums.