i would have liked, as planned, to see this report dealt with together with that of erik meijer, whereby good procedures can be agreed to allow member states and regions to allocate parts of the network to one specific company in the context of public service contracts: this means the possibility of granting one concession to one service provider for a given period, but with a clearly defined set of requirements for optimal service provision, safety and environmental care.
however, this was considered to be beyond the reach of some member states which were absolutely opposed to any harmonisation of spatial environmental information, which were also particularly concerned about fees and permits and saw this initiative as a threat to national monopolies.
but also the shadow rapporteurs and their staff, the legal service of parliament, the secretariat of the committee on the environment and the mediation secretariat, the council presidency and all its staff.
as you know, inspire is setting up an infrastructure for spatial information in europe to support environmental policy at all levels.
the sixth environmental programme also calls for attention to be paid to this reliable knowledge, but also to informed participation by citizens.
as regards intellectual property rights, parliament has chosen to apply strictly the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information on environmental matters and thus not to allow stricter restrictions on the basis of confidentiality, as requested by the council.
all in all, i would say that inspire is an important complement to the existing environmental legislation in the european union and we will be following its implementation in the member states with great interest.
i think that the interest of so many people and organisations in this first reading, both in the strategy and in the revision of the directive, shows that waste offers many opportunities.
waste is increasingly being seen as a valuable source of raw materials.
but waste is also a problem.
we 've heard it all before: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the waste is not reused or recycled.
i think that the revision presented here certainly contains positive steps towards reducing the harmful effects of waste treatment on the environment and health.
i am thinking of the five-step hierarchy, the waste prevention programmes for the member states, a better definition of a number of concepts, criteria for distinguishing products from waste, the introduction of the proximity principle, also the prohibition on mixing waste in order to dilute it and, of course, a procedure to clarify when waste ceases to be waste.
i think this is contrary to the policy of stopping the dumping of biodegradable waste.
amendment no 26, which deals with the definition of 'energy recovery', should also be deleted, otherwise many incinerators would be covered by recovery and a free market for waste incineration would be created.
finally, i think that the introduction of energy efficiency criteria is not the place to be here either, but in a review of the waste incineration directive.
this saying, which sounds like a desire to act at the source, is perfectly applicable to european waste policy.
between 1995 and 2003, the total waste generation increased by 19%, with an average of 3.5 tonnes per person per year.
if we add that less than 20% of waste is recycled, that half of the materials at the end of their life are not processed and end up scattered in nature and that, in addition, the proliferation of incinerators and landfills dangerous for the environment and health is not a sustainable policy, the whole philosophy of waste management must be rethought, and this, around 3 strong axes: eco-design as a priority of waste prevention policy since 80% of the environmental impact occurs at the time of manufacture and treatment of the product; the introduction of a dissuasive and unfavourable green tax on packaging and energy products; the closure of the 10 000 landfills on the territory of the european union or their compliance with the 2001 european landfill directive.
in the european union we are faced with global, sometimes aggressive competition, with an ageing population and a warming climate.
it is a competition which is becoming more intense not only on the supply side of our sales market but also on the demand side of the raw materials and energy market.
we also greatly appreciate the fact that the barroso commission is doing so much work, as does the german presidency, which wants to focus further on the weaknesses that need to be improved and on a serious energy plan.
completion of the internal market, including for consumers and smes, administrative simplification, an examination of the impact of the gold-plating practice, more research and innovation, a renewed approach to energy policy and action against climate change, focusing on energy supply, affordability, less dependence, more renewable energy sources, less greenhouse gas emissions.
the majority of our group also considers that nuclear energy should be included, although we fully respect the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, for the greens it is quite clear, as my colleague mr harms has said, that the european council in march will be mainly about energy, and we have demands in this respect.
in addition, the european parliament decided to ask member states to review inefficient social models in the light of their long-term financial viability, changing global dynamics and demographic trends, with the aim of making these social models more sustainable.
we also believe that the establishment of the joint committee will allow a permanent dialogue to be established to discuss a whole range of aspects relating to the social dimension, the environment, safety and security.
we note that technical cooperation is provided for in the field of the environment, for example, in order to use the most efficient air routes in the future.
companies that claim to be socially responsible have an obligation to society to minimise the negative social and environmental impact of their activities.
it also recommends that the social and environmental impact be given greater consideration in public procurement.
the report is very much in favour of sustainability and i therefore support it fully.
what good is it to europe's countries to invest a lot of money and energy in protective measures under the habitats and birds directives if the same birds are shot on their way across borders?
the spring meeting - you know it - focused on energy and climate policy.
both these issues are rightly high on the list of concerns of the people of europe, and it is precisely the last few years and months - most recently the oil dispute between belarus and russia - that have made us aware once again of how dependent we are on energy imports, how vulnerable the european economy is to issues like these.
just as obvious -- you just said that -- are the consequences of climate change.
environmental disasters, glacier melting, sea level rise, drought -- these are no longer abstract buzzwords, they have become very real threats.
with their decisions, the heads of state or government have opened the door to an ambitious and, in my view, responsible climate and energy policy in europe, a policy which no longer glosses over the scale of the problems we face but seeks effective strategies to tackle them.
we have taken a big step towards an integrated climate and energy policy integrated because one cannot exist without the other; because by far the biggest climate risk today is the production, the consumption of energy by humans.
this is of course particularly true of greenhouse gas emissions.
the eu remains a leader in international climate action with the decisions taken in brussels.
the eu unilaterally and independently commits to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990. this is an ambitious goal and it will require a great effort from all member states to achieve it.
we can only achieve these objectives if we also set ourselves on the road to the future in terms of energy policy.
this is why a comprehensive energy action plan was agreed in brussels, alongside the climate targets.
the action plan has two objectives at its heart: the aim is to reduce energy consumption within the european union by 20% by 2020 as a result of increased energy efficiency and, crucially, to increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption to at least 20%.
i am very glad that we were able to agree on the commitment at the end, because it is precisely in these three objectives that the link between climate and energy policy is clear.
without the efforts made in renewable energy and energy efficiency, the eu would clearly not be able to achieve its climate target.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
this is not the place to present the energy action plan in all its parts.
i think that an overall assessment here in this house is more important, and it is here that, in addition to the objectives i have just set out, we must also note, above all, the strategic guidelines adopted in the areas of the internal energy market, security of supply, international energy policy, energy research and new energy technologies.
i would like to draw attention to one aspect of these five examples: security of supply in the medium and long term will only be achieved if we succeed in diversifying energy sources and transport routes.
in concrete terms, this means: intensifying relations with the major producing countries, developing sustainable external energy relations, including with the countries of central asia and the countries bordering the black and caspian seas, and of course also maintaining our energy relations with the gulf states and north africa.
but it also means reliable and transparent energy relations, including with russia.
the results of climate change and energy policy are of particular importance.
the european union is on the way to a modern and future-oriented climate and energy policy.
the commission thanks the european council and the german presidency for the far-reaching and courageous objectives set by the european council last week, and we thank you for the unmistakable signal you have given to the rest of the world, which has been registered with great attention throughout the world: the signal that we in europe are serious about climate protection, about developing a common energy policy and about defending our competitiveness.
firstly, we will have to fully integrate climate and energy policy into european growth and employment policy.
in no case are consumer protection standards, quality standards, environmental standards, safety standards or social standards even touched upon.
it's not about changing the substance, it's about making it so that it doesn't put unnecessary strain on the companies, but releases energy.
(applause from the centre) when tony blair said a while ago that if the european union did not exist, it would have to be invented, he was probably referring to decisions such as those taken by the european council just a few weeks after the alarming facts of the latest un climate report became known.
with the support of the european parliament and on the basis of the commission's january proposals, it succeeded in making climate change and the energy transition a priority of european policy and in adopting an action plan for the next three years.
the strength of the decisions lies in the fact that they have succeeded in closely linking climate and energy policy.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions goes hand in hand with a competitive, secure and sustainable energy policy.
mandatory renewable energy targets, as well as the targeted promotion of energy savings and new carbon capture and storage technology, will set the european economy up for the global challenges of the 21st century in terms of climate policy.
we will continue to reduce the existing barriers to renewable energy and energy efficiency in all industrial sectors, with a view to achieving a 20% share of renewable energy in general and a biofuel share of at least 10% by 2020. i think i have heard what foreign minister steinmeier has just said as president of the council in relation to the commission's mandate to submit a proposal by the end of the year.
the energy bill of every citizen and every business will be relieved.
we are paying too much for energy in europe today, not only because of the global situation but because of the mismanagement of our own energy supply.
therefore, the consistent implementation of the new eu climate policy is also part of the fulfilment of the lisbon agenda.
we propose that the advanced countries agree to reduce co2 emissions by 30% by 2020 compared to 1990. in addition, the eu is already committing itself to reducing co2 emissions by at least 20% by 2020. this puts us in a very good position for the upcoming climate negotiations.
i believe that this climate double-cross will lead to a new dynamic globally that we also urgently need.
the european partnership for growth and jobs is the european answer to the two great questions of our time: the great social question of how to provide good and sufficient jobs in the age of globalisation, and the great ecological question of how to keep our planet habitable.
the ppe-de group would first of all like to pay tribute to the president of the council, chancellor angela merkel, and her team, and also to president barroso and his commission, especially commissioners dimas and piebalgs, who have launched the energy and climate package and have done everything to achieve good results.
research and development in the field of renewable energy and the fight against climate change go hand in hand with the lisbon objectives of growth and jobs.
nuclear energy has its place in the energy mix for most of our group, but like the european council we want to make the subsidiarity principle play its part here.
since the european parliament cannot remain on the sidelines of the climate change narrative, we would like to give our full support to the establishment of a well-functioning temporary parliamentary committee on climate change.
ladies and gentlemen, the emphasis at this spring summit was on energy and climate, but he was obviously talking about much more.
it is therefore essential that the european union promotes organic farming which meets an increasing consumer demand and which also corresponds to a move towards a drastic reform of the cap in the direction of truly sustainable development!
the european union and the european parliament are in the forefront of the fight against climate change.
in my resolution, in my report, i therefore put forward a whole series of concrete proposals to reduce the environmental impact of our house, of our european parliament, in a much more ambitious way than has been the case so far.
i am glad that the commission has taken up some of the points in the report which we drew up here in parliament in the temporary committee on the environment and the environment after the prestige disaster.
we have explained in amendments nos 31 and 32 exactly what we expect from such an independent competent body, namely that it saves lives, protects the coast, protects the environment, ensures safety and protects the economy.
in this way, our common rules on safety, security, air traffic management, competition, social and environmental aspects can be adopted by third countries and thus become a kind of level playing field at a high level.
it is also important that we keep all the possibilities open in these agreements to take future necessary measures, for example, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, to limit the negative effects on the climate as much as possible.
in washington in april we will be discussing our trade relations with the united states, energy and climate change, but i think it will also be an opportunity to reflect further on the common fight we must wage against international terrorism and, in particular, the advance of islamic fundamentalism.
even if the frontex rapid intervention teams do a good and efficient job, all this will be a waste of time if some member states refuse to take up their political responsibility.
while housing is not a competence of the union in the strict sense, it is nevertheless an essential element to be taken into account in pursuing our objective of social, economic and environmental cohesion.
the simplification brought about by this framework directive, ladies and gentlemen, is a good thing for the consumer and the producer, because it guarantees a more internal market, ensures greater safety and has a positive effect on the environment.
if we want to make the quality of life in europe truly sustainable, housing is an important lever in this.
the andria report on housing policy and regional policy rightly places the subject in the context of the european social model, energy policy, employment, urban development and the internal market.
the report explicitly refers to the social component of housing, the energy poverty that often accompanies it, the employment that can be generated by decent, environmentally friendly housing.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the environmental group in the european parliament has supported the work of mrs vergnaud, whom i thank for her availability.
madam president, my first words of thanks today are of course to our rapporteur, marie anne isler béguin, and also to my fictitious colleagues, mrs lienemann and mrs gutiérrez, for the pse and ppe groups, with whom, for the last two years, as they have pointed out, we have been trying to convince the commission, and above all the member states, of the relevance of this environmental policy, which is initiated and controlled from brussels.
secondly, i find that the european commission has nothing to gain by limiting itself to a role of notary, i would say, where the treaties give it clear powers, such as in environmental policy.
i would like to emphasize what i consider to be our most symbolic joint success: i am speaking, of course, of the creation of a nature and biodiversity component, which should cover at least 50% of the budgetary revenue, of the operational budgetary resources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is not restricted to the areas of the brussels region, which i know well, and that no less than 2 333 hectares, or 14% of the regional territory, including the famous soignes forest and the woluwe valley, to name but a few, are included in these protected areas.
secondly, as mr adamou and other colleagues have pointed out in the previous debate, the european union committed itself in 2001 in gothenburg to halting the depletion of this biodiversity by 2010: three years from that deadline, we are far from being on the right track, and i am using a euphemism.
the budget for life+ may seem indecent, it is indecent: 1.51% of the union's annual budget, or 1 894 billion over seven years, but i hope that convergences will be created between the european union, the member states, the regions and localities in order to ensure the sustainability of natura 2000 funding, and that we will not be told that with 308 billion euros, the combined budget of the structural and cohesion funds, the budgetary resources are insufficient to protect nature.
is it necessary to point out, commissioner, that the ecological footprint of our present european way of life is three times the capacity of the earth?
it is therefore unsustainable if it is to be generalized, which is the simple reason why there is an urgent need for international environmental and social standards to be made binding, and not just encouraged, in these trade negotiations, which unfortunately is not the view of either the commission or a majority of this parliament, blinded by short-term interests.
so, contrary to what mr simpson has said, it is not for theoretical reasons that we are advocating the retention of the reserved area; it is for the sake of the environment that we are advocating it.
is sustainable financing of universal service possible in a fully liberalised market?
i would like to stress the harmful, disastrous effects of the many liberalizations voted in this parliament in the fields of, for example, energy, transport and, today, postal services.
it guarantees the right to a fair wage, good working conditions and protection against dismissal, and it provides a stable social climate that we need for economic growth and productivity.
i recently visited the company dingens in the belgian municipality of leopoldsburg, and that company has been proving for decades that mercury barometers can be produced in a sustainable, environmentally responsible way.
moreover, such a traditional barometer has an unlimited life span, unlike its successor, the digital barometer, which runs on batteries and thus consumes energy.
the manufacturers of traditional barometers have also become adept at the sustainable maintenance of these instruments.
no mercury from barometers is leaking into the waste stream.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply, but i think that the commissioner has already said that he is not prepared to accept amendments nos 1 and 2 because he is not satisfied with the way in which the commission has dealt with the problem of the problem of the environment.
mr president, it is true that europe is facing all kinds of economic, social and environmental challenges in the maritime sector which require a common approach, but that is not the point here.
in addition, logistics contributes to environmental performance.
freight transport and logistics must also meet the challenges of reducing road accidents and emissions of pollutants and noise.
efforts in the logistics sector are not aimed at regulating this growing sector, but at securing a sustainable future for it by enabling it to mobilise the potential for efficiency that still exists in the transport sector.
in this respect, logistics offers us the opportunity to reconcile economic and environmental objectives.
it is by working on this that we will achieve the modal shift we are calling for in the fight against global warming.
i believe that it is through good logistics and good transport infrastructure that we will make european mobility sustainable, that is to say compatible with our environmental requirements for the good of the economy and for the good of the european citizens.
mrs ayala sender, let me sincerely thank you for your contribution to these advances in logistics, which is a key to the development of sustainable transport.
it is moving in the field of tension between economy and growth on the one hand and, among other things, environment and security on the other.
the aviation sector is a sector which must be tackled in all its aspects at european level, in the interests of industry, consumers, safety and the environment.
at a time, commissioner, when the climate is so high on the political agenda, we cannot afford to have planes making useless detours, wasting a lot of kerosene, etc.
we must absolutely push this dossier forward, together with other instruments, sesar, the emissions trading system, etc.
we cannot continue to waste tens of millions of euros on inefficient airspace management with numerous redundant air traffic control centres.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
first, they intend to restrict human rights to civil and political rights and to remove social, environmental, economic and cultural rights from the text.
research efforts for new technology, for renewable fuels for transport; these efforts must be drastically increased.
then there's the other sector that's crying out for new environmental technology: the construction sector.
the construction of new energy-efficient houses, the so-called passive houses, is still in its infancy and these houses are also relatively expensive.
we can perfectly well reduce the vat on energy-efficient materials and renewable energy in construction further, possibly even to zero.
the european commission - and you know this better than i do, commissioner - is in any case planning to put forward new proposals by 2009 on the reduced vat rate, and these proposals for energy-efficient measures in the building sector can of course be a perfect fit for that.
the report on the road map for renewable energy is a good one.
it clearly indicates that the coming years are crucial and that a legislative framework under the co-decision procedure is necessary to increase the current 7% share of renewable energy in the energy mix to 20% by 2020. the report rightly highlights the enormous potential of offshore wind energy: a potential share of 15% of total eu energy demand by 2020, with the potential to create 368 000 jobs.
the development of biofuels is rightly called into question, particularly as regards the need for sustainable production methods and the fair balance between food and energy production.
the greens would like to see it put more forcefully and therefore call for a serious analysis of the impact of biofuels on the climate, the environment, the social fabric and food security.
another shortcoming of the report is recital e, where the nuclear lobby proposes nuclear energy as a 'bridge technology'.
to create sustainable mobility, to achieve our commitments on climate management.
in meetings with the political authorities of kazakhstan, the european union, the council and the commission have stressed that it is up to kazakhstan to demonstrate that it is ready and able to commit itself to fully complying with the obligations and standards of organisation in its three dimensions, namely the human dimension, the political-military dimension and the economic and environmental dimension.
in reality, this is yet another attempt to introduce muzzle-loading regulations to further stifle free speech, to create a climate of genuine progressive opinion terror, whereby in the end indigenous people are actually obliged to give priority to immigrants.
the problem of immigration affects our citizens personally and in their private environment, and to shift decision-making on this to a european level where virtually no one has a say is not only undemocratic, but also downright dangerous.
you stress the importance of the environmental dimension and, in particular, of co2 emissions trading.
as you know, the european union and its european neighbours, 42 states, had to make a reservation on the co2 emissions trading resolution because we found ourselves in opposition to the united states and the rest of the world.
thirdly, the establishment of the joint committee - to which you also referred, commissioner - with representatives of both sides creates an institution which will discuss issues relating to the agreement, but also matters relating to regulations in the social field, in the field of the environment, in the field of safety, etc.
madam president, i said that this debate was of major importance because what is at stake here and today is our vision for european agriculture tomorrow and the need to move from intensive agriculture, which is obviously too polluting, to sustainable agriculture, which respects biodiversity.
it is therefore essential that the ambitious vote by the committee on the environment on the three reports by mrs breyer, mrs klass and mrs belohorská be confirmed tomorrow.
we must confirm the priority given to the health and environment aspect, such as specific measures targeting the most vulnerable populations, the application of the precautionary principle also to the most dangerous substances, confirm that the use of non-chemical alternatives will be encouraged, that the ban on aerial spraying will now be the rule, in short, translate into concrete actions the concerns of the europeans who have been numerous - and mrs isler-béguin also reminded us of this - to write to us to demand a non-doped agriculture for tomorrow.
the commission has already announced that it will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides.
given the major impact on the quality of food, public health, the environment and the viability of our agriculture - all of which are areas of concern - not only our rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, but also our whole group, have devoted a great deal of time to this package.
firstly, a further reduction in pesticide use is desirable; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the environment.
thirdly, i wonder why this parliament, which is in favour of an internal market with a high level of protection for consumers, health and the environment, would oppose a first step towards harmonization in this area.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, passenger cars are responsible for 12% of all co2 emissions.
a second appeal to you, commissioner, to the commission, to europe and a call to launch an evaluation of the 2009 multiannual budget to invest even more research money in new research technologies for low-carbon cars.
this afternoon, the european parliament delivered a broad message that responds to citizens' concerns about less dependence on pesticides, sustainable agriculture and the health of farmers and other users.
while gdf suez is allowed to remain a shareholder of fluxys, specific arrangements will guarantee that the latter is managed in an independent way, and this outcome is entirely consistent with the policy objectives pursued by the commission regarding the liberalisation of the energy markets in europe, in particular the package of proposals of september 2007. the commission decision on the merger provides that the parties must proceed with the divesture of their ownership, including a partial divesture of participation in fluxys, and with the other commitments, including those relating to fluxys governance, within a certain divesture period.
i shall say that parliament’s contribution to the tobacco directive was of vital importance and i would like to interpret today’s report as support for smoke-free environment policies.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
so we have every interest in investing more time and more energy in school sports facilities.
first, the energy policy.
we were disappointed with the results on car emissions.
we believe that your approach to biofuels ignores the negative environmental impacts of this type of technology.
we also think, and this is the message that needs to be conveyed throughout this whole energy policy area, that you have to resist the idea, to please different lobbies or to meet different governmental demands, of using too many soft instruments.
in the field of renewable energy, we do not think it is a good idea to allow flexibility between member states either.
between economic efficiency, the impact on the environment and, last but not least, the rights and safety of the users, we must also set priorities for 2008, which we can only briefly discuss here.
it is clear from the text that europe is the world leader in the fight against poverty, the promotion of sustainable development, human rights and governance and so on and so forth.
as president maumoon abdul gayoom pointed out at the recent un summit, the maldives, which is only 1.5 metres above sea level, is in danger of disappearing due to the constant rise in sea levels as a result of global warming.
this commitment was confirmed when the maldives participated in the third united nations conference on the least developed countries convened by the european parliament in 2001, and even more so when the maldives assumed the important role of chairing the panel of experts at the united nations framework convention on climate change.
i do not see any specific political initiative on these very serious issues, either in the written documents or in the speech by the president of the commission, and i link this to climate change and the debate we are going to have in bali, which includes an extremely important financial dimension, in particular to help the so-called most fragile countries to enter the kyoto protocol.
the second point i would like to make is that of the global battle over standards, and in particular environmental standards and social standards, but more particularly environmental standards.
i would like to know, mr vice-president, what this means for the preservation of european environmental standards.
it would be particularly counterproductive for europe, which is more dependent than any other on the rest of the world for raw materials, energy, markets and even, as a result of ageing populations, on the labour force.
europe will not be able to tackle the growing poverty and global warming - the great challenges of globalisation - if it continues to prioritise liberalisation.
liberalisation is also the cause of the great environmental disaster we are heading for if we do not take decisive and enforceable measures against global warming soon.
investing in an energy-efficient economy and creating jobs in that direction is a promising story, however.
if europe is to be a single market where people, goods, services and capital move freely, then europe must also set high social and environmental standards which protect and set an example for the rest of the world.
he's got a lot of sense, and we can't let that go to waste.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
after lisbon, it is clear that the challenge is not to replace trade with cooperation but to ensure that these two policies pursue the same objective of sustainable development.