we also believe that it is necessary to demonstrate the solidarity of the european institutions with the medical staff, while taking great care not to jeopardize the progress of the negotiations and not to affect the climate of the discussions with libya by improvised measures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of this parliament and all the european institutions to the looming energy crisis in the balkans.
albania has a very serious electricity regime, macedonia barely covers its energy needs.
my dear mrs. president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, we are discussing a problem which has a major impact on the development of the world economy, particularly affecting the less developed countries, including the new member states of the european union, whose economies are more energy intensive.
as socialists, we cannot fail to stress that rising energy prices are exacerbating social hardship and social insecurity among the citizens of the union.
although somewhat delayed, the european union needs to take a number of measures in the long and short term to overcome its energy dependence, both in terms of the quantities and the price of imported energy and energy carriers.
increasing the share of renewable energy and the use of biofuels should be supported, but the process will be slow and our approach must be very pragmatic.
i would like to give an example of the energy crisis facing the western balkans.
i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted an important report on the balanced sustainable development of society.
bilateral partnership agreements with assisted countries, where support is woven into a system of socio-economic and political measures, contribute to the sustainable democratic development of those countries and lead to poverty reduction and respect for human and minority rights.
the commission considers that the increase in the excise duty is in the interest of the environment.
we should govern the process and create an empowering environment for it.
the important energy section should also be considered as supporting individual agreements of eu member states with russia, such as the burgas-alexandropolis oil pipeline, which will transport energy raw materials.
it is very important, however, to stress that both russia and the european union must seriously assess the environmental impact of the project and invest in technologies to protect it, as the pipeline passes through the sensitive black sea area.
the european union's support will be a guarantee of its perspective with a view to the sustainable development of the region.
geopolitical interests and balances, the level of technological development and its impact on the economy, thus create the necessary conditions for a second chance for nuclear energy as an important component in the energy mix.
this topic is very important and relevant in the context of heated debates on climate change, security of energy supply and alternative solutions for generating energy capacity.
in my country, bulgaria, in 2006, the kozloduy nuclear power plant contributed 43% to the country's total electricity production and to the sustainable development of the economy.
this dynamic process shows that solutions are actively sought to address the challenges of modern economies, the provision of cheap and clean energy, climate change and compliance with the kyoto protocol greenhouse gas quotas, security of supply and less dependence on gas and oil imports.
among the report's key strengths are the clear role of conventional energy sources, the need to use them more rationally through new technologies to achieve energy security in the european union while fully respecting the objectives of sustainable development and the fight against climate change.
i would like to support the conclusion that increasing investment in energy technologies at european and national level will not only help achieve the union's energy objectives, but also strengthen its export capabilities of facilities that meet the highest standards of efficiency and safety.
i would like to draw particular attention to the section of the report on nuclear energy, not only because of its leading role in the production of electricity from conventional sources, but also because of the vital need for nuclear energy to meet the highest standards of nuclear safety.
the work of the european union, including the high level group on nuclear safety and waste management and the european nuclear energy forum, will contribute to making nuclear energy an increasingly objective part of european union policy.
these amendments damage not only the report: in the end, they damage the environment that some of the proposals claim to represent.
i use the word ‘honest’ most deliberately, because mr reul has used real words like ‘coal’ and ‘nuclear’, rather than hiding behind the generalities of what might or might not be sustainable or renewable, and it is clear that we will continue to rely on burning fossil fuels for generations to come.
we do so because they provide necessary, clean energy.
however, in most member states, renewable energy can meet neither our environmental targets, nor our accelerated energy demands, nor our need to remain competitive in global markets.
the 2008 draft budget, in its section on sustainable growth, also enables the newest member states of the european union to achieve the objectives set for them in connection with membership.
the operational programmes of the structural funds ensure the quality and qualification of human resources, competitiveness, improvement of infrastructure, administrative capacity, transport, the environment and others.
the region needs infrastructure improvements, increased investment, adequate environmental protection measures, due to its strong industrialisation and its conversion into a transfer area for energy raw materials.
the european union, through its policy and its financing, must guarantee both environmental security and the stability of europe's energy supply.
i would like, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the socialists, to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs cizelj, on the thorough work and good cooperation in the committee on industry, research and energy in preparing the report.
i am convinced that the council's adoption of the european parliament's proposals will enhance the authority of the agency and, in a broader international context, it could be one of the leading initiators of the implementation of the european parliament's appeal to the international community in paragraph 9 of its resolution of 14 march this year on non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament, calling for support for initiatives for multilateral international centers for enrichment of uranium under the control of the international atomic energy agency.
as javier solana noted in lisbon on 6 november at the euromed meeting, this issue is becoming particularly relevant now that countries such as morocco, egypt and jordan have announced ambitious nuclear energy development programmes.
i would like to thank in particular the vice-president of the commission, mr frattini, for his support for the proposals made by the committee on industry, research and energy and for his statement that the agency should become a viable body of the european union in the light of the revival of the role of nuclear energy and a new, more balanced attitude towards it.
the successful implementation of the measures provided for in the package, combined with the increased level of regional cooperation, such as the black sea economic cooperation and the dablas initiative for environmental protection, would not only make an important contribution to the security of our seas, but at the same time would ensure a higher competitiveness of our maritime industry.
i believe this disaster proves once again the importance of the issue of our watersheds and the need for appropriate policies to prevent such accidents and protect the environment.