waste, as we all know, is a major problem of modern day living, and it is greatly worsened by the exaggerated consumerism-based global society we live in.
hence, the most important task is not to find out how best to cope with the waste we generate, but to try to reduce the waste we produce in the first place.
however, things being as they are, we have to deal with an effective waste framework directive.
we must make sure that the application of this waste directive is effectively monitored and properly implemented in practice.
we are still lacking the answers from the african environment, which will be very important in deciding how to respond to this.
thus, for an island like cyprus, for example, the difficulties faced are: higher prices due to the interaction of captive markets and additional transport costs, low wages due to levels of demand and opportunities, shortage of raw materials, increased energy costs, infrastructure deficiencies, limited range of activities and greater sensitivity to environmental risks that can impact tourism.
mr president, i would like to condemn the arrest of a member of the european parliament, mr machakis, by the authorities of the british bases in cyprus during an official visit of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in the bus, which is a serious insult to the institution of the european parliament.
there is also mention of the concern that in some regions the targeting of community aid is unsuccessful, with the result that no improvement is achieved in these regions despite long-term financial support, resulting in the waste of community resources.
that is not sustainable and we certainly cannot support it.
on the particular issue of designated places of refuge, my comment is that it is correct to have this issue properly regulated all over the union, as it is easy – and unfortunately it has happened in the past – for member states to have the tendency to turn away vessels in distress, particularly tankers, out of a fear of the likelihood of disastrous pollution, and yet it has been proven that a major ecological catastrophe can be avoided if a vessel in distress and with limited damage can find refuge in designated places.
in the general context of the debate on maritime transport, our union is well motivated in terms of introducing regulations enhancing the safety of navigation, the protection of the environment – both maritime and of our shores – the protection of consumers and so on, as are dealt with in today’s reports and in some in the past.
madam president, the report we are about to vote on concerns the halting of biodiversity loss by 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
that is why so few amendments have been tabled by my colleagues and why the report was unanimously adopted by the committee on the environment.
however, at this point i must express my deep concern about the continued loss of biodiversity and the consequent degradation of ecosystem services.
i believe we all recognise the urgent need to make efforts to meet the commitments made to halt the loss of biodiversity in the european union by 2010. the action programme is an important instrument and a last chance to bring actors at community and member state level closer together on key actions to meet the 2010 commitments.
i recognize, however, that the action programme is not sufficient to preserve biodiversity and support ecosystem services on a longer term basis.
i would also stress the importance of the timely and effective implementation of the water framework directive in order to achieve good ecological status of freshwater.
i urge member states to ensure that projects funded by the cohesion fund and the structural funds do not harm biodiversity and ecosystem services but optimise the benefits for biodiversity.
on another matter, we need to recognise and address the fact that invasive alien species are a major threat to biodiversity and that the spread of invasive alien species is exacerbated by the increasing movement of people and goods.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
climate change is a very important chapter and a separate policy objective in the commission document.
it is of the utmost importance to develop an ecosystem approach to climate change adaptation, in particular with regard to policies that affect the use of the land, water and marine environment.
as regards funding, i cannot hide my disappointment and deep concern at the financial constraints on the financing of all biodiversity actions resulting from decisions on the budgetary perspective.
greater attention should be paid to financial needs in the 2008-2009 budget review, which should assess the adequacy and availability of european funds for biodiversity, and in particular for natura 2000. i would like to thank the two colleagues, mrs avril doyle and mrs marie anne isler béguin, for their amendments, and in particular mrs béguin for adding hydroelectricity to paragraph 67 which i had omitted to do.
finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the conclusions of the study we requested on biodiversity from the committee on the environment: the commission has also been active in the field of biodiversity conservation, and has been involved in the development of the european union's biodiversity strategy.
therefore, why waste our time debating palestine when we know that nothing significant will come of it?
they also impede the sustainable economic development of entire regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
these criteria include, inter alia, compliance with arms embargoes, respect for human rights in the country of destination, the preservation of regional stability, the prevention of internal or regional conflicts, the promotion of sustainable development and the prevention of undesirable diversion of goods.
the compromise amendments strengthen the text in many areas of particular importance to parliament, such as the follow-up to the community initiatives on cancer and more precise wording in relation to actions on the environment and health.
i am aware of the strong interest of parliament in this area and the resolution on cardiovascular diseases which the committee on the environment is putting before the house.
it is an important element in our strategy to banish mercury from our environment forever - a strategy that has long been supported by the european parliament.
mercury and its compounds are highly toxic to human health and the environment.
the directive will therefore be a major step forward, restricting the placing on the market of certain new mercury-containing measuring instruments and preventing some 30 tonnes of mercury per year from entering the environment through waste streams.
this directive not only protects human health and the environment but will also help to preserve the internal market by introducing harmonised rules for the placing on the market of measuring instruments containing mercury throughout the community.
the commission fully shares this view, since the common position incorporates some of parliament's amendments at first reading and represents a balanced compromise between the objective of eliminating as far as possible the use of mercury to protect human health and the environment and the objective of ensuring the safety of patients in health care.
we welcome the fact that parliament points out that in the area of maritime affairs, speedy progress must be made on the legislative proposals which are now before the council and which relate both to the safety of maritime transport and to the protection and preservation of the marine environment.
the commission welcomes the call by parliament to ensure that the environmental dimension is clearly reflected in the proposals we will be making in october and is committed to paying particular attention to climate change.
in this regard the commission is analysing the contributions of all stakeholders which deal with emissions trading and shipping, renewable forms of energy such as wind and solar power for ships, land-based power supply for ships in ports, offshore wind energy, ship dismantling and others.
all these will have a positive contribution to make with respect to climate change and broader environmental considerations.
as has been said on many occasions, the marine environmental protection strategy remains at the core of the maritime policy and constitutes its environmental pillar.
maritime transport is also important beyond reasons of sustainability as it contributes to further the integration of our common internal market and is crucial for europe’s external trade in this era of globalisation.
with respect to the points raised in the report on research and innovation, the commission believes that excellence in maritime research and technology is essential to develop the vast potential of sea resources in a sustainable manner.
we recognise the importance of tourism as a driver for sustainable growth in coastal and maritime areas.
at the same time, coastal and maritime tourism can be used as a tool to foster the preservation of cultural, historical and environmental features of our maritime space.
a communication is planned for 2007 and it will set out an agenda for a sustainable and competitive european tourism.
the commission welcomes the positive attitude of the report towards the need to ensure sustainability in the field of fisheries.
turning now to social aspects, let me say that we fully share the concerns of parliament regarding the scarcity of experts and well-trained professionals facing the maritime industry and will look with great interest at the suggestions made in the report for specialised training courses aimed at providing a broad understanding of the ecosystem-based approach to sea and oceans management.
it will aim to promote and develop the sustainable use of the oceans and seas, delivering a high quality of life across the regions, providing transparency and raising the visibility of maritime europe, strengthening europe’s maritime international leadership role and, last but not least, reaching for europe’s full knowledge and innovation potential in maritime affairs.
but no proposal - and i emphasize this in the presence of the commissioner - can succeed without protecting the environment, which man is maniacally destroying with tragic proofs the fires of recent years and days in the mediterranean countries.
all the plans are based on the assumption that we will succeed in saving the environment and reversing the greenhouse effect within this policy of action, starting with the creation of a european firefighting force, which will operate with joint contributions of means and funds, mainly from the member states concerned, and will be ready in the summer months.
environmental damage includes destruction of habitats, fauna and flora in the soil, watershed, landscape and microclimate of the area and cannot be estimated in economic terms but is perhaps more significant than other damage.
for almost 10 days we watched in horror as the fires destroyed life, property and the environment in greece, and our minds returned to similar catastrophes in portugal, italy, spain and elsewhere in europe in previous years.
but beyond the economic side of this disaster, there is the human and environmental side.
we must also ask ourselves what will happen from an environmental point of view.
the ecological disaster that has struck greece with the forest fires and the fires in other mediterranean countries convinces me that this prediction is a visible reality if global warming and extreme weather continue.
finally, i believe that in these studies which will be carried out at pan-european level, the issue of reforestation and environmental restoration after such ecological disasters should be given even more serious consideration.
mr president, we could invoke the irony of fate that this debate is taking place after the tragic events that took place this summer in southern europe and which will unfortunately contribute the most to the changing landscape and to future environmental problems.
thus, for example, desertification may intensify an existing general climatic trend toward greater drought or it may initiate a change in local climate in the first place.
often, little data is available to show the previous state of the ecosystem or the rate of degradation.
we must therefore be particularly careful about what happens to the burnt areas in southern europe, since we risk experiencing climate change and, by extension, possible desertification of the affected areas in the near future.
so if we're going to stop and reverse the degradation of dry and semi-arid lands, we need to understand how and why the rates of climate change, population growth and food production are impacting these environments.
are there perhaps expensive extravagances and gross inefficiencies resulting in large amounts of financial waste?
even to the most difficult-to-convince-people, and that probably includes mr chichester, who has now left, it is now clear that our planet is warming up dangerously and that climate change is a real threat to life on earth as we know it.
where there is no dispute is that the accumulation of gases such as co2 is certainly making climatic change worse, much worse, and even at this late stage, when the catastrophic effects of climate change have commenced, the world is awakening slowly, perhaps too slowly, to the urgent need to do something about it.
the road map for renewable energy in europe is certainly an important step in the right direction and i am sure it will have the full support of most meps, but once a proper legislative framework is achieved, member states must be compelled to implement it and effective monitoring systems must be put in place.
in order to have a real effect in halting gas-induced climate change, two further goals must be achieved.
firstly, a road map for renewable energy must extend further than the eu to cover as much of the world as possible.
secondly, we must understand that we must make our citizens themselves understand that, along with action and renewable energies, we need to reduce energy spending in general.
if we go on increasing our energy needs indiscriminately and seemingly in a limitless fashion, then, irrespective of how many road maps on renewable energy we draw up, all will be ineffective in the end.
this radical departure has its origins in the compelling argument that there is a maritime dimension to virtually every major issue facing europe today – energy, climate change, innovation, international competitiveness, job creation, environmental protection, trade, transport and so on.
at a time when the discussions about global warming, globalisation and eu competitiveness have acquired new urgency, one can hardly ignore the undeniable need for a maritime strategy that directly treats these issues.
it is not just a question of fisheries or shipping, or of trade or regional development, or of research or employment, or of the environment or relations with third countries.
allow me to just mention the following: deploying europe’s strengths to combat climate change through research and innovation, through more sophisticated planning for vulnerable coastlines and by taking the lead in international discussions; a european strategy for marine research and a commitment to excellence in marine research technology and innovation to help meet the lisbon goals for growth and jobs and to fully exploit the opportunities that lie in new technologies; better regulation of maritime transport to help create a true, barrier-free european maritime transport space in the internal market and to support europe’s external trade in this era of globalisation; respect for the crucial role in driving economic growth and an examination of how eu funding can best reinforce sustainable growth and boost prosperity in remote and disadvantaged regions; ensuring that all forms of development take account of the environmental impact by fostering environmentally friendly shipping, reducing pollution risks and promoting ecosystem-based fisheries; better use of planning tools, data networks and horizontal coordination to support decision-making for marine spaces and coastal areas and to ensure international compliance with rules; backing maritime clusters and regional centres of maritime excellence to raise europe’s competitiveness.
a background document on the important links between the european union energy policy and maritime policy has also been published today.
there are a number of other supporting actions which are already well advanced and which include a communication of 17 october on port policy, another on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and a third on sustainable tourism.
complementing all of this will be a discussion on 22 october in lisbon with the 27 member state ministers responsible for maritime affairs, which will include ministers of transport, fisheries, the environment and defence, amongst others.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
so through the support extended also under the european development fund for the recovery and rehabilitation of southern sudan and for the long-term equitable and sustainable development of the whole of the country, we are standing firmly behind the comprehensive peace agreement.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we also welcome the commission's actions and efforts, the legislative programme and the work programme, which emphasize the adoption of more environmentally friendly measures in the transport sector, the review of european energy policy, the reinforcement of biodiversity, and the marine environment strategy.
we recognise the leading role that the european commission has so far played in the fight against climate change.
several of my colleagues have spoken before about climate change.
i would just like to say that in accepting the inevitable period of climate change that we have to accept, i disagree on this point and i think that we should not accept it, but instead we should push our partners to comply with the kyoto protocol, to follow the subsequent kyoto commitments to reduce emissions, but that we as europeans should also do what we have always been saying.
let me make two points: first, the commission stresses that the increase in adaptability to globalisation needs to be intensified in order to ensure sustainability of the living standards of citizens.
to transform economic competition into genuine competition for the promotion of freedom, democracy, the rule of law, social justice, respect for human rights, protection of the environment and peaceful coexistence between peoples and individuals.
the whole directive will sufficiently emphasize the measures necessary to comply with and achieve a good environmental status, the deterioration of which will be avoided.
member states will provide an initial assessment by 2012, identifying good environmental status and stating consistent environmental objectives.
the european parliament was able to obtain clear commitments from the council on integrated policies and approaches which would encourage member states to cooperate in order to achieve a good common environmental status.
this directive also takes into account the common fisheries policy, by exploiting fisheries resources in a sustainable manner, while allowing the integrity of ecosystems to be maintained or restored and, where necessary, to protect spawning, farming and feeding.
to this end, we were united in our determination not to give in to the unreasonable demands of the council, which did not accept any changes to the provisions regarding the existing daily and yearly limit values of pm10 and rejected outright parliament’s proposal to link any derogation with the adoption of additional eu measures on sources of pollution.
this is the new legislative environment, agreed by the budgetary authority, in which we must operate.
the ec’s overall approach, however, remains unchanged: landmines and other explosive remnants of war must be considered within a broad context of humanitarian assistance, long-term and sustainable socioeconomic development programmes.
the first is an anti-productive and anti-environmental process, involving the forced withdrawal from the profession of thousands of small and mediumsized farmers who, instead of being supported to stay in the profession, are being sent off to become cheap labour.
the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.