mr president, a number of experts argue that, apart from speculation based on short-term observations, there is no conclusive scientific evidence that industrial increases in greenhouse gases are behind climate change.
climate change has been happening for millions of years, and it will continue to happen, so i don't share the belief that humanity can change the course of the planet through our normal activities.
cultivating the planet is not about emissions trading, about stricter standards and new regulations, it's not about investing massively in reducing emissions from existing energy sources.
it is much more prudent to invest in the development of new energy sources and in nuclear power.
i believe that the current one-way, anti-nuclear, global warming highway, under the guise of fighting greenhouse gases, leads to a dead end of bureaucratic encirclement not only of our incomes, but of our freedoms, but it is definitely not a growing globe for our children.
i believe that the military bases of the united states, whether in the czech republic or anywhere in europe, do not serve security, but on the contrary threaten the security of the czech republic and other european states, deepen tensions, increase the need for armaments and significantly worsen political and energy relations with russia.
ladies and gentlemen, i fear that the trade war, codenamed "global warming", will soon take its toll.
the european council is obviously going to accept their fashionable pseudo-scientific claims that we will save this planet by drastically reducing co2 emissions.
if we are persuaded that we can influence the natural climate cycles of the planet by sacrificing the competitiveness of european industry, we are not doing our planet any favors.
their co2 production will replace the pollution we'll spare by our sacrifice.
that is why i am concerned that the starting point of the european council's energy negotiations is the fight against climate change.
i believe that citizens and businesses are more interested in energy prices and, above all, in the secure and continuous supply of energy.
the council should therefore address the liberalisation of the energy market in such a way as to prevent massive price increases.
finally, investment should be made in the development of new forms of energy, particularly nuclear energy.
if we do not, the high cost of energy will put european companies' competitiveness on ice.
for example, i see the promotion of wine distillation as an inefficient waste of limited resources.
i believe, however, that we must have real legal instruments to make it possible for companies to fulfil their obligations, not only in the social field but also in the field of the protection of working conditions and health at work, and also in the field of environmental protection and protection.
in the context of intra-union air transport, the debate on the environmental impact of transport is very topical today.
these are the taxation of fuels, the emissions balance, in particular carbon dioxide, noise and other parameters under discussion.
if union carriers are to be involved in emissions trading following the kyoto protocol, then it is necessary to apply the same scheme to competitors, especially the largest one from the united states.
one considered the unhealthy consequences of high oil production for middle eastern stability to be the world's greatest threat, the other the environmental impacts and climate change.
9/11 and hurricane katrina have shown that the source of danger is the same, energy overload, excessive energy consumption.
twenty percent renewable deployment is not going to be the total solution, the only solution to be able to address both threats, to reduce emissions and dependence on the instability of the middle east at the same time, is nuclear energy.
we cannot allow them to use the situation in iran and elsewhere as a hostage to the threat of misuse of nuclear energy.
ladies and gentlemen, the solution to global warming is inextricably linked not only to the use of renewable energy, but also to the way we treat traditional energy.
i am personally pleased that the eu summit has finally moved the static waters around the union's views on nuclear energy.
the german presidency, which is turning around the nuclear power plant like a hot potato, is characterised by a contradictory approach to nuclear energy, and which knows that it will probably have to wet the energy-hungry tongue of its economy in the end, but does not want to burn itself out over the green spices.
i see that shift in the fact that the summit participants finally admitted that member states can count on the use of nuclear energy in the interests of energy security and also emission reduction.
i believe that the energy mix should not only be balanced but also democratically open to all available resources, with the utmost care, of course, to maintain the highest level of security.
mr president, it is a good sign for europe that the european council has adopted an action plan for energy for the period 2007-09. it has thus taken the first concrete step towards establishing a common european energy policy - albeit half-hearted.
while recognising that europe is a long way from a competitive and interconnected internal energy market, the summit did not support the full ownership unbundling of energy companies as a necessary tool to achieve it.
the unrestricted integration of energy leads to the emergence of large-scale economic complexes which have not only a great economic weight but also extraordinary political power in each country.
the energy sector is thus much less competitive and therefore much less efficient than it could be.
the unbundling of energy companies' assets and transparent pan-european market rules for all, accompanied by a common approach by european countries to external energy policy, would improve the functioning of the energy market, make internal policies in individual eu member states more transparent and significantly reduce foreign policy and security risks not only for individual member states but also for the union as a whole.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, football is probably the most popular sport in europe and the football environment and those around it have a considerable influence on the younger generation.
it is therefore important that football is not seen as an environment where huge amounts of money are made, where laws are broken and violence is committed, and where the professional top of the pyramid is detached from the amateur base.
and yet, i would venture to say, the amateur base is more socially beneficial than the exclusive environment of professional sports, where business has largely eclipsed the original joy of the game.
we must overcome our differences on how to deal with the situation in iraq and work together to secure energy sources that do not pollute the planet and that ensure sustainable development.
these great powers are based on different environmental and social values than we honor.
we face the difficult task of re-engineering them in a way that is sustainable in the long term, without reducing the competitiveness of our common cultural model and the living standards of our citizens.
experience shows that taxpayers' money is not always spent effectively, national development strategies do not always have synergistic effects, operational programmes of individual countries are not always well thought out, and do not always succeed in strengthening competitiveness, increasing employment and thus contributing to sustainable development.
i respect the fact that some austrian citizens are against nuclear energy, but that does not in any way entitle them to promote their views by restricting the freedom of others.
the european union should, in my view, promote the development of nuclear energy.
we have globalization, international terrorism, arms control and disarmament, nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction, uncontrolled migration, energy dependence and security of energy supply, climate change, the prevention of global poverty and many more.
in particular, we have repeatedly discussed in the legal committee the regulatory and legislative aspects of the european innovation environment.
we have to repeatedly and regrettably acknowledge that the patent environment of the european union is heterogeneous and confusing.
and to make it sound less crude, we're going to mix in a little bit of climate alarmism and offer some very resistant people a candy-price energy solidarity so they can wave some sort of victory charge back home.
the union needs instruments to enable it to function effectively and democratically, it needs the means to address citizens' demands on issues such as globalisation, illegal migration, security of energy supply and so on.
i have already said in my speeches to the committee on the environment that we should not be subject to the pressure that has undoubtedly been exerted and is being exerted by the so-called traditional producers.
mr. schnellhardt knows that a technical error has caused the environmental committee... (the president withdrew)
ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss the report on the labelling of spirit drinks, we should not only take account of the technical aspects and the need to ensure the transparency of the european market, but we should also bear in mind that the production and consumption of spirit drinks are often linked to local traditions and customs.
the preservation of traditional production methods is guaranteed in the accession treaties of the czech republic to the eu and should therefore not be unduly questioned, even by the environment committee of the european parliament.
this plum tree was endangered when the environment committee very unfortunately interfered with its definition, which was even enshrined in the accession treaty of the czech republic.
the eu should in principle return to a substantive discussion not only on energy but also on other issues of economic relations with russia, without the biases and psychological burdens that prevail, especially in a number of new member countries.
and if both sides understand a number of other circumstances, like the growing economic power and energy needs of china or india, then there's hope that we can really work together.
a developed society needs educated men and women, but also a functioning family, which is indispensable in the upbringing of children and creates an environment of security and solidarity for all its members.
of course, with the highest environmental standards.
there's a potentially significant source of environmental pollution.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present, after a year of work, the plenary report on consumer confidence in the digital environment together with the shadow rapporteurs.
the european parliament will thus send a strong political appeal to the european commission and the member states to modernise the conditions for online business and to align the consumer protection agenda with the latest trends in the digital environment.
but paradoxically, despite the limitless possibilities of the internet, it's as if that doesn't apply to the electronic environment.
i believe that the report will inspire a higher culture in the digital environment.
the high quality of european medicine, together with improvements in the environment and, in particular, in the economic wealth of people, are leading to longer life expectancy for europeans.
i think it's essential to know the answers before we start fundamentally changing the current energy market structure.
madam president, as the shadow rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, i would like to thank my colleague, mr vidal-quadras, for his great work, as well as for this excellent opportunity to discuss some of the very important issues, such as ownership unbundling or the role of national regulation authorities.
with regard to ownership unbundling, i would like to support amendments and proposals that soften the assertion that unbundling is the only and most efficient way to liberalise the internal energy market and which, therefore, consider other means as well.
with regard to the section entitled ‘regulators’, i would like to emphasise the role of the national regulation authorities, which should be independent of governments and bear part of the responsibility in the process of the liberalisation of the energy market.
commissioner, i have supported more flexible authorisation of food additives, so that the commission can directly monitor their environmental and health impact.
these are measures which, although they do not concern the essential elements of the directive, nevertheless allow me to say that the disposal of old vehicles should be speeded up, not only in terms of their safety but also in terms of the amount of air pollution they produce.
on the one hand, we are overpricing the production of new cars because of the ever-increasing emissions parameters, and thus making them less accessible to poorer citizens, so on the other hand, more and more old cars are driving on the roads emitting dangerous fumes.
we are liberalising postal services so that competition can bring consumers a wider range of services, higher quality and lower prices, but at the same time we are afraid that these universal services will fail in a market environment, so liberalisation will be regulated.
it has not only strong historical, cultural and economic links with the member states, but also plays a key role in ensuring the energy security of the area.
i am also committed to increasing financial assistance to ukraine and to continuing to call for the vigorous implementation of reforms, the fight against corruption and the creation of a stable, reliable and predictable investment environment.
and a second concrete economic priority should also be the swift integration of ukraine into the european energy community.
we should focus on making sure that structural money significantly boosts gdp growth, increases employment and contributes to sustainable development, and this is where i ask the following questions: what structural measures have contributed to the growth of successful regions such as ireland?
i fully agree that a strategy of simplifying the legal environment should be a political priority.
i am thinking in particular of the fact that parliament, like the commission, has the legislative initiative, which would undoubtedly also have a positive impact on the process of simplifying and improving the quality of the european legal environment.
in the 1990s, this created a competitive environment for businesses, which brought consumers a wide range of products and lower prices.
the report under consideration is of great importance in the context of improving and simplifying the community legal environment.
it was intended to integrate airspace into the internal market for services and to provide the basis for an effective management system for safety, the environment and the increase of the capacity of the skies.
minimum rules on police cooperation, the approximation of criminal and civil codes, mutual recognition of criminal and civil judgments, as well as eu protection of evidence, victims of crimes and criminals themselves, are measures which state that with a lot of energy, money and political pain we can cope with terrorism and that we can be of some help to the european citizens of london, glasgow and other threatened locations.
you know that this parliament and the european union as a whole have taken climate change as one of the main challenges for the coming period, and we know that water scarcity and the increasing desertification are directly linked to this climate change.
i personally am one of those people who thinks that maybe we should be more prepared for the coming impacts of climate change than we are for desperately trying to stop it, because our efforts are unlikely to be successful.
it's clear to me from the climate debate that there's a vicious circle going on, that water loss in the atmosphere is causing further desertification, and that's causing further warming, so it's going to be very difficult to break that vicious circle.
ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that europe needs to do more to develop renewable energy, either because it is being depleted by others or because it is an important means of reducing emissions in the energy mix.
i've intentionally brought up the whole energy mix, because i consider it the foundation.
i am convinced that we must also be deliberate in the development of renewable energy sources, and especially in the development of the rules for it.
our goal is not to achieve a certain percentage of renewable energy, but to reduce emissions and dependence on other sources.
we must also not forget that some renewable energy sources, such as solar or wind, need to be backed up.
so, renewable energy support, yes, but not militant struggle without substantive discussion and argument.
still, renewable energy is not cheap, and many countries or even end-users simply cannot afford it.
the report begins by stating that: a) conventional energy sources will soon be exhausted, b) we are increasingly dependent on imported energy resources, and c) climate change will have terrible effects on the population.
i consider only the eu countries' growing dependence on imported energy resources to be a clear and undeniable fact.
but the solution is not a unilateral preference for renewable energy sources.
on the one hand, it is the responsibility of individual member states to set their own energy policy and, in this connection, their right to their own energy mix.
i also believe that the european union should cooperate with the united states, including the coordination of its approach to energy exporting countries.
and lastly, i am missing the importance of nuclear energy in the report.
i consider the theses of the rapid depletion of conventional energy sources and the terrible impact of climate change on the population on which the report is based to be debatable.
the fact that transport of raw materials, their processing and distribution of products require a high level of energy is a basic truth proven by practice in this area.
i suppose it's clear from these notes that these sources cannot be the energy supply solution.
similar weight is given to rapidly expanding collectors for preheating domestic hot water and some other renewable energy sources.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union is increasingly dependent on traditional energy supplies, particularly oil and natural gas.
for example, significant energy savings and increased research in this area are needed.
the same is true of the common european external energy policy.
i think that this aspect should also be borne in mind when discussing the formulation of a common foreign policy on energy.
let us create a european fund for alternative energy resources.
these are all cases of a lack of energy security.
why do we have this lack of energy security?
therefore, using energy tariffs to create a european fund for alternative energy can help us, not to create another lisbon strategy for 2020, but to really reach such people as topolánek and give us the ability to have new resources, so as not to be dependent.
education and training policies can have a significant positive impact on economic and social outcomes, sustainable development and social cohesion, while poor effectiveness and equity have huge costs tax losses, unemployment, increased need for healthcare and support from public sources, as well as costs associated with higher rates of socially pathological behaviour.
otherwise, the chances of a future sustainable palestinian state are being undermined.
ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate our colleague, ms bělohorská, on her report on the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides.
i think it has succeeded in producing a document which takes account of and balances the need for sustainable and competitive agricultural production in europe, while at the same time promoting the use of pesticides which has the least negative impact on human health and the environment.
i very much welcome the inclusion in the report of an amendment i co-initiated, namely the 'precautionary principle with regard to human health and the protection of the soil and water ecosystem'.
i also very much welcome this initiative of parliament, as it is one of the few reports that specifically addresses conventional energy sources.
i am convinced that fossil fuels will continue to have their indispensable place in the energy mix for decades to come and therefore should be given significant attention.
renewable energy sources are important, but they cannot replace conventional energy sources.
our efforts should, as mentioned in this report, be directed towards developing new technologies, such as green coal technologies, which will enable energy production with less negative environmental impact.
however, at a time when energy consumption is increasing rapidly and we do not have the technologies to replace these energy sources, too much unilateral focus on renewable sources could paradoxically accelerate the growth of the union's member states' dependence on energy imports from other countries.
as energy becomes the most strategic commodity, the debate about the complete replacement of conventional sources may be popular, but it is also very irresponsible.
i consider it a victory for common sense that this proposal pays sufficient attention to nuclear energy.
i am convinced that if we are to have a real strategy for reducing co2 emissions, we must not reject nuclear energy, which is undoubtedly one of the cleanest sources of energy.
but seriously, i think the whole energy sector is affected.
that is, on the one hand, people have tried to reduce the energy demand of technologies and on the other hand, to produce more energy.
of course there are environmental risks, mr reul mentions resources such as the arctic shelves, which represent, according to some estimates, up to 25% of new gas and oil resources, but there is a real need to consider the environmental risks.
we will certainly ask the european commission to take measures to reduce the energy consumption per unit of gross domestic product.
(the president withdrew)
ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that when looking at conventional energy sources, the report makes room for all sectors of the energy mix.
however, i am convinced that in the interests of sustainable development, of maintaining competitiveness in the broadest sense, and in particular of genuinely protecting the environment and reducing emissions, nuclear energy is indispensable.
i am therefore pleased to hear realistic voices from the commission and other union institutions on the need to continue to count on nuclear energy.
in many countries, it is a key resource for the energy independence and security that so many claim.
so it seems that we're not going to end up chasing quotas and lower emissions percentages, as they say in our country.
now the reality is that if you take out the energy from the trade relationship, russian exports to the union are about as big as those to morocco or argentina.
we should push for a more stable business and political climate in russia, which would include fewer import barriers and create more space for investors from the european union itself.
whether it's global warming, the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the conflict in the middle east, kosovo, or whatever.
however, russian markets should also be fully open to european firms, including energy markets and firms.
at the same time, we need more and more energy despite energy conservation programs.
so we're investing in the development of renewable energy and we're addressing the safety of nuclear power plants, and in particular the storage of spent fuel.
i agree with him that we should re-evaluate investments and also modernize technologies that can increase the efficiency of energy production from fossil fuels and, most importantly, reduce emissions in principle.
today, we've mandated the automotive industry to develop engines that reduce co2 emissions below 120 g/km.
today it is 157 g. some applauded today, but i warn that the reduction of emissions is being held back by the fact that people are driving more and more, and mainly in old cars.
prices, but also emissions are rising because we've ordered more safety measures for cars.
colleagues, until safer, greener cars and cheaper driving are available, the share of car transport in emissions will not be reduced substantially.
i voted against the report on the community strategy for reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars, although for different reasons than those mentioned here a moment ago.
i voted against because we are moving away from the strategy of an integrated approach contained in previous strategy papers and are shifting the whole burden of reducing co2 emissions onto the european automotive industry.
all this is becoming a carbon reduction dogma and the incorporation of this dogma into future binding legislation will mean a reduction in our competitiveness.
in addition to disease, hunger and water scarcity, there are also security, trade, migration, brain drain and climate change.
some tourist routes from bavaria end at the border of the no-fly zone and strict environmental laws do not allow them to continue on czech territory.
therefore, despite the positive changes that have been made, the legislation presented continues to be a breach of the principle of subsidiarity and, from the point of view of proportionality, we can also speak of a waste of resources to secure such legislation.
mr president, the european parliament has decided, in addition to the kyoto protocol, to include aviation in co2 emissions trading.
aviation, with only 3 percent of its emissions, has doubled in 15 years.
europe is once again confirming its leadership in the fight against climate change, and the challenge is to make it balanced.
the proceeds of the auctions should be used for the development of technologies to reduce emissions in aviation and not for other purposes.
the big reserve for reducing emissions, as we all know, is also in integrated flight control.
to reduce global warming by two degrees by 2020 is to convince the rest of the world to do so.
although some open issues remain, such as data protection, or securing space in the new member states against the importation of toxic waste, as in the case of shipments of toxic waste from germany to the czech republic, i believe that all these problems will be overcome and that europe will not be turned into a closed fortress, but will remain open to cooperation with other nations from central, eastern and south-eastern europe.
but this is not what the proposal contains, nor does it even offer a model of global sustainable development.
our political group's proposal focused in particular on the following: fighting poverty, as statistics show that 80 million people in the european union have a net income of less than 60% of the national average; stressing the need for more effective means to guarantee citizens' rights, such as access to quality and well-paid work, minimum social standards; on the lisbon strategy, stressing the need to develop a new integrated strategy for sustainability and solidarity to replace the current document and to provide effective tools for implementation.
that is, the creation of global rules and standards, not just technical, but also environmental, social and safety.
our new energy concept is well suited to the challenge of globalisation, it is a good example.
energy security, immigration and counter-terrorism are all core issues.
how will our new action plan or enhanced action plan reflect our concerns – counter-terrorism, the fight against extremism, xenophobia, energy security and of course human rights issues, as well as international issues, the geneva conventions?
ladies and gentlemen, monitoring air pollution and trying to improve its quality is a very necessary and commendable activity.
in my country, we often have to finish the wine because of the colder climate.
a paperless environment for customs and trade is already a necessary condition for the performance of the european market, even before the modernised customs code was introduced.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
they do not want to defend the idea that migration, energy and transport will be decided not by individual countries but by brussels.
in such an environment, smuggling, arms, white meat, drugs, tobacco, and alcohol flourish.
it's hard to plan transportation, energy, economic development in an environment like this.
in such an environment, it is difficult to protect the environment.
here too, its sustainability must be ensured, inter alia, by adopting a single legislative framework for the environment and coastal protection.
i would therefore like to conclude by calling on the european commission to help montenegro and the other western balkan countries effectively in developing regional cooperation, particularly in the fields of energy, transport and the environment.