some people think that trying to define the nature of europe is a waste of time.
the european union must be united in its efforts to achieve peace, stability and sustainable development in the middle east.
the question of cooperation on energy will also be central.
(applause from the centre) we want to lay the foundation for a global climate agreement from 2012 at the european council in march and, since germany also holds the g8 presidency, at the g8 summit.
it is therefore important to encourage the us to cooperate more closely with the european union on energy and climate policy.
because it's not too much to say that access to energy and climate protection are the two challenges facing humanity in the 21st century.
the lisbon strategy is based on the vision of a europe that is strong in growth and social, but also responsible for its environment.
it is quite certain that a slow, bureaucratic and fragmented europe will not solve any of the above problems, either in foreign and security policy or in the field of climate and energy policy, in the field of european research policy, in cutting red tape or in enlargement and neighbourhood policy.
only when all three factors come together can we achieve sustainable growth in areas of future.
therefore, i will not go into detail, but will just concentrate on two immediate priorities, bearing in mind our work leading up to the march european council: energy and climate change, and the declaration that we hope to adopt in march.
the commission's proposals from last week on energy and climate change form a central part of the lisbon agenda for growth and jobs.
you cannot tackle global warming, you cannot deliver sustainable, secure and competitive energy, without europe.
first, we in the commission believe that we should agree on the strategic goal of an agreement by developed countries to cut their emissions by 30% by 2020, which is essential to ensuring that global temperatures exceed pre-industrial levels by no more than 2°c.
the leadership comes with the european union commitment now to at least a 20% cut in emissions by 2020; the incentive by making clear that we will go further if others join us.
it is, after all, global warming, not just european warming.
second, three pillars to deliver our objectives of sustainable, secure and competitive energy.
a single market in practice as well as on paper, to give real choice to european union energy users and to trigger investment.
this will require a clearer separation of energy production from energy distribution, and stronger independent regulatory control with a european dimension.
the commission also makes proposals on improved interconnections, on transparency and on a new customers' energy charter.
a 20% target for energy efficiency by 2020, with detailed proposals for how to get there.
a new drive for clean energy, through a binding commitment to triple renewable energy use by 2020. a 50% annual increase in the energy research budget and commitments to advance clean hydrocarbon technology.
the european union could not have found a better way to launch its anniversary than by showing its ambitions for the future and making it clear that today climate change is one of the most important challenges if not the most important challenge we face in this 21st century.
second, sustainability: the fight against climate change, through energy and other policies, should be a defining mission for europe's future.
sustainability, accountability, solidarity and security cannot indeed, must not stop at europe's borders.
europe needs energy security and a fair partnership, above all with the countries on whose cooperation we depend.
but what we also need is the realization that we can't tackle climate change if we don't say goodbye to the waste economy!
we need energy reduction and energy efficiency.
you are leading a government that has abandoned nuclear energy.
(applause and cheers) but if you want to use the presidency of the council to change the course of domestic policy, to do what you wanted to do as leader of the cdu, namely to reverse the withdrawal from nuclear energy, then i have to tell you: coalition agreements are treated like gas supply contracts.
i also ask that we do not have any internal political disputes here, neither about nuclear energy, nor about school policy all that does not matter here!
we are pleased that you, madam chancellor, have set yourself the objective of making the problems of energy policy the main focus of your presidency of the council, especially the problems of european foreign policy.
we agree that climate protection and energy are the central issues.
the council's attitude is that of a cooperative body, and anyone who has ever dealt with energy matters knows that the cooperative attitude which the council is now adopting is in fact a preamble to the constitution.
the question of power is the first time that energy is mentioned in the draft constitutional treaty.
in our modern society, energy efficiency, energy security, solidarity between member states and external energy policy have the same importance as coal and steel had in the past.
of course, that includes climate action, and of course, that includes promoting renewable energy, improving energy efficiency, incorporating biofuels.
mr cohn-bendit, there will of course be further disagreement on the question of nuclear energy.
i want to say here, as a supporter, personally, that i believe that the paths to saving and to renewable energy must be followed with great vigour.
mr president, i would just like to refer to some of the points that were highlighted during our very fruitful debate, especially now that chancellor merkel has also referred to energy.
many speakers referred to energy and to the importance of energy in relation to third countries, namely russia.
we need a common market, an integrated market, for energy.
we also need a clear energy policy internally.
i emphasise the issue of energy very strongly because, apart from its value in itself, it is one of the most powerful drivers for the european project.
since the very beginning, energy has been at the core of the european project.
today, if there is a matter where the idea of solidarity applies, it is precisely this issue of energy.
but we are linking energy with climate change because climate change is one of the most important challenges – if not the most important challenge – of the 21st century.
the committee on transport and tourism has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we agree with this, because regional and local transport is of central importance to our citizens, also for environmental reasons.
we greens want to take account of social and environmental considerations.
the liberalization of rail transport could be neglected if other transport sectors - as has been pointed out repeatedly in recent years - had not been liberalized without regard to social and environmental costs, with dramatic consequences.
if i also take into account that a person emits a tonne of co2 into the atmosphere when travelling 17 000 km by rail, whereas in the case of air travel this pollution is already reached at 3 000 km, then one can very well come to different conclusions as regards the opening up of the railway market.
we are not talking today about the meijer report, because the meijer report is coming soon, nor about the port package, but we are talking about opening up the market for energy and environmental reasons.
however, adequate traffic controls can also contribute to a significant and sustainable reduction in the number of serious accidents.
this is also important from the point of view of environmental protection.
the vice-presidents on the committees have also - as we heard from the committee on the environment - done some very good work, but sometimes that work has been laughed at.
you have touched on other points which are crucial: the abolition of other special rules concerning competition and the environment.
as far as the environment is concerned, the special rule is aimed at preventing environmental dumping, and in the current political context the commission is the guarantor of a very high level of environmental protection.
our integration must come, first of all, from the capacity to generate economic growth, from effective institutions, a credible, independent judiciary capable of delivering justice to the people, non-corrupt officials, infrastructure of european standards, a clean environment.
this will enable us to respond to today's broader security challenges, whether it is energy security, illegal migration, or hotbeds of conflict and instability in neighbouring areas.
i think we are all convinced that the vast black sea area offers many of the possible answers to the big questions of european and global energy security.
i am thinking of: ensuring the area of freedom and security, energy security, combating illegal immigration.
dear members of the european parliament,as our accession coincided with the start of the german presidency, let me conclude by mentioning just three of the priorities announced: the constitutional treaty, the security of energy routes and the neighbourhood policy.
i was among the first to advocate that the energy sector should be given greater attention, which means, in addition to relations with producing countries, diversification, liberalization, cooperation between political and economic actors, and investment in research and development.
we continue to see the european solution as a common eu energy policy to support energy efficiency, diversification of resources and transport routes and liberalisation of the sector along the supply chain.
as you know, from our point of view, there is a key region in the energy policy of the european union: the black sea.
i think we are all convinced that the vast black sea area offers many of the possible answers to the big questions of european and global energy security.
mr president, never before has climate change been so prominent on the political agenda.
the message from science is clear: climate change is happening.
the risks of climate change far outweigh the costs of doing something about it.
following several natural events, notably the warm winter we are experiencing this year, there is a lively public debate about the threat of climate change.
now is the time for decisions on how to put europe and the world on the path to a more energy-secure, low-carbon future.
the urgency and scale of the climate change challenge requires europe to further reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and convince its partners around the globe to do the same.
the european union has the objective of limiting global warming to two degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels.
the climate change and energy package that the commission put on the table on 10 january provides a blueprint for a european union strategy to meet this objective.
it outlines the basic elements of a global climate agreement post-2012 and gives a clear signal on the necessary level of ambition.
the strength of this fully integrated package is that it demonstrates that further reducing the european union's greenhouse gas emissions goes hand in hand with strengthening our competitiveness and the security of our energy supply.
on top of that we have a unilateral commitment, irrespective of the agreement and until such an agreement is reached, to reduce by 20%, which will enable us to achieve the other targets which we have set in terms of energy efficiency, carbon dioxide emissions and energy security.
as regards the decisions we are taking on the national allocation plans, i would point out that if we had accepted the proposed national allocation plans, the emissions trading system - which is the most important instrument to combat climate change - would have collapsed by now.
we also have reductions from specific sectors: aviation has been included in the european union emissions trading scheme and will contribute its fair share in reducing emissions; cars should also make a fair contribution towards reducing the emissions which are increasing; the transport sector, as you know, is increasing carbon dioxide emissions in the european union tremendously, so it has to make reductions too.
this is the way to upgrade fuel requirements so they will be cleaner, emit less carbon dioxide and be better for the environment, better for health, better for fighting climate change.
by 2020 we are going to save 500 million tons of carbon dioxide.
we need to be determined to fight climate change.
in order to do this it is not just the commission, it is not just the council - and i would like to thank you very much for all the support you have given us so far - it is also the national authorities, not just the ministers, the governments, but all the authorities who are responsible for dealing with climate change cases.
in addition, the commission has put forward a number of options for engaging developing countries with the aim of limiting the growth of their emissions and eventually reducing their emissions after 2020. the new targets for developed countries and tools to engage developing countries should form part of a new agreement to follow up from the kyoto protocol's first commitment period in 2013. obtaining such a new agreement will not be easy and will require firm european union leadership.
the commission has proposed that the european union demonstrate this leadership through a clear, independent commitment to achieve at least a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared to 1990 levels, as i said previously.
this independent commitment will help us break the deadlock in international climate negotiations.
independent unilateral commitment is also essential to meet out competitiveness and energy efficiency and energy security objectives.
it ensures continuity of the carbon market and provides incentives to make investments in low-carbon technology for beyond 2012. under european union leadership, discussions in the united nations framework are now increasingly shifting to issues of importance for an agreement on action post-2012.
the nairobi climate conference in november, while not making major headline-grabbing decisions, was in fact a step forward in terms of preparing the ground for a future agreement.
these will support developing countries in adapting to climate change and encourage more clean technology projects in africa and other poorer regions.
i expect the spring council to send a strong signal on the need for determined action on climate change and the crucial link between energy policy and climate change climate policy.
so in this way we shall show that we practice what we preach and we shall persuade them to follow in a global agreement, because climate change is a global threat and needs a global response.
i would like to thank you for giving the new presidency the opportunity to make a few comments on the subject of climate change.
i should like to begin by saying that in the council, in preparation for the last climate conference, we have developed common positions between the commission, parliament and the council on the main issues, strategies and responses to the global challenge of climate change.
i believe that the only way we can achieve success in the difficult negotiations of the coming years is if the european union continues to speak with one voice and to maintain its leadership in the international climate change negotiations.
commissioner dimas has rightly pointed out that the european union, in addition to the general formulation of important climate change objectives, is faced with the question of how far it is prepared to translate these objectives into concrete initiatives and political practice in the european union and the member states.
the first great challenge facing humanity is the question: how do we provide the world - a growing world population - with enough energy?
if we want to consume energy and resources in the next 50 years in the same way as we have done in the last 50 years, then we would need two planets to provide people with enough energy and resources.
the first question we must answer, therefore, if we are to make progress in the international climate negotiations, is how to secure energy supplies not only for ourselves but also for developing and emerging countries, which are seeking economic growth to improve the living conditions of their people.
if the europeans and other industrialized nations cannot provide these countries with technological answers to the question of how to achieve economic growth, social security and prosperity for their people without destroying the climate at the same time, then these countries will not follow us on the path to climate protection!
so the first challenge is to answer the question, for example, that is always put to us first by the developing countries in the international climate negotiations, which is: how do we provide for the two billion or so people who today have no access to the electricity grid, who live in abject poverty, and who need energy to improve their living conditions?
how do we provide energy for this part of the world's population -- for two billion people -- without destroying the climate?
the challenge for technology regions like europe is: what are the technologies of the future that will enable economic growth and decouple it from climate change and ever-increasing co2 emissions?
the second, related challenge for humanity is to limit climate change, global warming.
we're going to get the latest data from the intergovernmental panel on climate change this week.
we will learn - so much is already known - that all the threatening scenarios for global warming will be confirmed or worsened rather than improved.
this means that we will not be able to keep global warming below 2 degrees unless we can make a greater contribution to reducing co2 and other greenhouse gases than we have done so far.
these are the first signs of climate change in a country that is relatively unaffected by it.
and it gets even more dramatic when we look at africa, with the global warming that's already happening.
there are already more climate refugees on the african continent today than there are from war and civil strife.
what we are seeing in the refugee movements off the coast of north africa, off europe, is a gentle breeze of what is threatening us if we fail to stop global warming and the destruction of the living conditions on a continent like africa.
it is a blatant injustice that the continent of africa, which bears no responsibility for the current climate change, is the one that suffers most from the consequences of climate change.
imagine, we're getting to a world population of four billion people living in industrial societies -- two-thirds of them in asia, by the way -- and global warming is starting to affect the himalayan glaciers.
in future it will not be enough to bring together 189 united nations environment ministers and 5 000 scientists once a year in an international climate conference, but we will have to bring these issues to the attention of the heads of state and government, the united nations general assembly and the security council.
to put it bluntly, the number of members present at debates on climate change is lower in the german bundestag than in the european parliament.
i am convinced that the commission has not only recognised this task with its proposals on energy and climate change, but that it is also given a historic opportunity.
for the first time in the debate on energy and climate change, the commission has put forward a proposal which presents a historic opportunity.
it brings together the issues of energy security and climate protection.
we no longer have separate debates on how to ensure access to energy and how to safeguard the climate, but we have a package of proposals and policy instruments on the table that brings the two together.
for the first time, we have the chance to decide energy policy and climate change issues together in a coherent approach at european level.
i believe that the key point in the coming weeks and months is not to miss this historic opportunity to bring together energy and climate policy in europe and to make it a leading policy in the international debate, in addition to all the necessary detailed discussions.
firstly, we need ambitious climate targets for the international negotiations.
it is absolutely right that the commission should set itself the objective of achieving a 30% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 in the international negotiations.
it's not measured by what we trust each other to do or what's economically feasible, but it's measured by the question: what reductions do we need to achieve by 2020 to keep global warming below 2 degrees?
i think this is something that we need to bring more into the political debate, because often in the climate debate, you have a big problem.
back in the 70s and 80s, when we had problems with waste and landfills in my country, we saw toxic substances coming out of the landfill.
that's why the politicians have come together in everyday life and said: we have to clean up the landfills and we can't accumulate so much waste.
what it's about is making it clear that climate change is already happening today, and that it's about our children and grandchildren at its core.
but my 18-year-old daughter will pay the price if we don't use the next 10 to 15 years to make a real difference in global warming or stop global warming.
climate change has a long way to go.
that's why it's important that we firmly anchor the 2 degree target at the spring summit of heads of state and government, and that leads to the international climate change target of minus 30 percent by 2020. the commission has said that if there is no multilateral agreement or a follow-up agreement to kyoto with the united states, china and india, then the european union's unilateral target should be at least 20%.
there are politicians who have considered this a step backwards in climate protection.
the message is that even in the unlikely event that we fail to reach an international agreement on climate change beyond the european union, even then no one in the european union should believe that climate change will end, but even in this case of the failure of international climate change negotiations, which we did not expect and did not want, the point is to anchor more climate change in the european union and not to stop at 8%, but to reach at least 20%.
if a voluntary commitment to 120 grams of co2 per km on average for the european car industry is not met, then the political debate will not be about whether or not we need legislation at european level, but according to everything i have heard in the last few days, we are in agreement, that is the commission and my government, but also the overwhelming majority of the council and parliament: we need european legislation to ensure that the european automobile industry makes this contribution to climate protection.
we also need a significant increase in renewable energy.
i also strongly urge on behalf of the council that we stick to the common objective of 20% of renewable energy in the primary energy needs of the european union and prove that we can achieve technological leadership in this way.
these ambitious climate targets also offer enormous growth prospects for the european union, for employment and for training.
i believe that europe is the engineers and technicians of the world who are taking up the technological challenges and offering solutions to how we can tackle both the energy issue and climate change.
these technological answers are awaited by many in international climate change negotiations as well as in international energy policy.
i believe that what the commission has put forward in the areas of efficiency, climate objectives and energy action plan provides all the conditions for us to take up this challenge.
access to energy and climate protection are the two challenges facing humanity in the 21st century.
i am not saying that, the president of the european council, angela merkel, said that in our parliament two weeks ago, and it is therefore only logical that the commission and the council presidency should put the fight against climate change at the centre of their work.
the stern report has made it clear that the economic damage of unchecked climate change is comparable in economic terms only to the damage of world war ii.
while not every single storm can be attributed to climate change, researchers say with great confidence that the accumulation of extreme weather events is becoming more noticeable.
that is why we must pursue the target of reducing emissions by 30% by 2020. we should do everything we can.
we have a resolution from the environment committee which makes a lot of sense.
i think, for example, that the resolution by the committee on the environment treats nuclear energy very badly and very unfairly.
but we also need to send a clear signal for more climate action.
not all of you have heard the council presidency's impressive speech on climate change.
but you, like me, have heard many such speeches, and because my former colleague in the national assembly, sigmar gabriel, is a friend of the clear word, let me just say this: if words could stop climate change, we probably wouldn't have a problem!
what the commission has put forward in connection with the energy package is not only problematic because of the 20% target and the juggling with 20% first at unilateral level and then perhaps later 30% at international level.
it is also problematic because the instruments which are to be incorporated in this energy package are all too weak.
for example, there is too little energy efficiency and saving in this package, there is too little renewable energy in it.
the correct attempt by environment commissioner dimas to establish binding co2 reduction targets for the automobile industry, at the level voluntarily announced by the industry, this correct approach is being torpedoed by germany, and not with the consciousness, this is about climate protection, not with the consciousness of how we make the automobile industry sustainable, but only in terms of how we protect the small segment of the large luxury cars produced in germany.
so all of a sudden it's not about climate change anymore, it's all about porsche!
a colleague has just said that we should not discuss political problems such as climate protection for too long if there is no solution to them.
i am also concerned that some of the debate these days is not being conducted in a factual manner when it comes to storms that have their roots in climate change.
why is it that we have no explanation for the fact that even if all the industrialized nations reduced their greenhouse gas emissions by 30%, we would only achieve a six-year delay in warming by 2100. i do not question the urgency of this problem, i only wonder whether we are doing enough, whether we are not sometimes acting hastily and asking the right questions.
we are discussing climate change, security of supply and competitiveness.
why is there no serious consideration of the alternative of obtaining 70% of co2-free electricity from nuclear energy?
if the issue of climate change is so important, then all options must be weighed against each other without any ideology or ruthlessness.
this includes the question of nuclear energy in the future.
the issue of climate change will certainly be with us for a long time, and the gap between action and effect, that is, the actual reversal of climate change, is very large.
this includes in addition to the continuation of the kyoto protocol beyond 2012 of course also strategies to reduce co2 emissions in individual sectors, such as passenger cars.
the reduction in co2 emissions from passenger cars and the associated fuel savings will have a positive effect on energy security, considering that road transport alone accounts for 26.5% of the total energy consumption in the european union.
in climate policy, the saying 'time is money' is taking on new meaning, as the recent report by mr stern has shown.
of course we welcome this report which is so focused on mainstreaming sustainability in development cooperation policies.
the commission is fully committed to improving the mainstreaming of sustainability in our development cooperation.
the overarching objective of this cooperation is the eradication of poverty in the context of sustainable development.
firstly, we are improving the mainstreaming of environmental concerns in development policies in a variety of ways, for example by staff training, by setting up an environmental helpdesk, by systematic preparation of country and regional environmental profiles and, whenever relevant, strategic environmental assessments and environmental impact assessments.
secondly, we are stepping up assistance to developing countries to adapt to climate change.
we are working to enhance our alliance-building with the developing countries in the area of climate change adaptation and mitigation.
because the most immediate effect of climate change on developing countries is the incidence of extreme weather phenomena, we are also preparing a new disaster risk reduction strategy.
thirdly, we are promoting clean and renewable energy through specific projects.
another new initiative that has been well received by the international community is the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund.
lastly, we are programming resources for building capacity in developing countries to prevent illegal dumping of toxic waste and to clean stocks of solid pesticides.
the european parliament’s support in relation to the development cooperation instrument and the environment and natural resources climatic strategy will be critical, and from this point of view i want to express gratitude for your engagement and support.
the key statements that the development committee wanted to make in this report are contained here, namely, firstly, the challenges of climate change, secondly, the protection of biodiversity, thirdly, debt relief for the least developed countries, fourthly, the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises for better social, environmental and economic cooperation in the countries of the south and, fifthly, more foreign direct investment and greater export diversification.
the report calls on the commission to base all community development programmes on transparency and accountability, as corruption in developing countries is detrimental to sustainability.
we are happy to have china as part of the global environment, but it puts a lot of pressure on some companies.
but given the pressing environmental challenges, environmental sustainability must be given high priority in the public sector.
it is therefore very important that we quickly formulate and implement a strategy and policy of accelerated development with a view to successfully adapting our country to the european socio-economic environment.
bulgaria enters with the ambition to defend, ladies and gentlemen, its national interest, from culture to energy security.
it is time to understand that there is a particularly important investment in peace and security in the region, and that is the development of infrastructure of modern transport, communication and energy infrastructure.
however, bulgaria has already demonstrated its ability to act actively in implementing some of the main focuses of this policy - energy security, infrastructure, prevention of terrorism, illegal migration and the environment.
ladies and gentlemen, bulgaria is ready to participate in the debate on europe's common energy security.
we will have our active position, not only because in the energy sector we pay the highest price for joining the european union.
we are entering with the confidence of a country that is a factor of energy security in the region, not only because we have covered a not insignificant part - 45% - of the energy deficit of our neighbours.
i certainly think that the european commission's document of january this year on europe's energy policy provides a solid basis for the development of a common energy policy.
we highly appreciate the contribution of the german presidency with its clearly formulated emphasis on environmentally friendly energy supply within the european union.
bulgaria, for its part, will have its contribution, its european contribution, as a hub for the transit of oil and gas from east to west, in the search for and development of renewable energy sources, with its achievements and capabilities in the field of energy research.
i consider particularly important, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions and intentions on the development of nuclear energy which are substantiated in the new european documents.
firstly, because the european parliament is the institution that has shown a particularly keen understanding of energy problems in south-east europe, particularly in bulgaria.
the region is facing a serious energy crisis.
secondly, i must admit that i was provoked by the energy policy commissioner's statement that units 3 and 4 had been shut down due to safety concerns.
numerous projects by the world association of nuclear operators, the association of western european nuclear regulators, the atomic affairs group of the council of the european union, the international atomic energy agency have demonstrated that there are no technical reasons preventing normal operation and have demonstrated a high level of safety in accordance with international standards.
moreover, i want to make it clear that if our partners in the european union deem it necessary, bulgaria would accept a new peer review of units 3 and 4 of our nuclear power plant, to be carried out with the cooperation of all the above-mentioned bodies concerned with nuclear energy.
if there is a will now to assess the complex situation in the region, the threats to individual countries, including bulgaria, a solution can be found within the framework of the accession treaty, by referring to article 36. because as we make joint decisions on the future of our european energy security, let us also think about its present.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, a strong europe is only possible if there are strong leaders - statesmen and politicians who are able to impose a vision and take concrete decisions - in order to overcome the delay in the draft constitution, to keep the prospect of enlargement of the european union alive, to take the necessary steps to shape the common energy policy.
all our efforts in the field of environment and health are aimed at protecting health.
good information means comprehensive analyses of the environmental problems we face, the causes of these problems and the possible effects of the various solutions.
however, in the course of the first reading so far, i have had the impression that the european parliament is doing the opposite of what we originally wanted to achieve with the amendment to this legislation, namely a simplification and de-bureaucratisation of european waste legislation.
we need flexibility in the application of the waste hierarchy.
life cycle analysis is at odds with our goal of waste prevention: it produces useless paper.
i know that the reservations about a flexible waste hierarchy are very strong.
to reduce these, a look at the practice of modern waste management will help.
there is no longer any reason not to treat material and energy recovery equally.
a few words about self-sufficiency: market regulation should in principle have no place in environmental legislation.
it is regrettable that in environmental legislation we are turning the internal market on or off at will.
it is not a question of preventing tourism to waste, but of finding the best economic and ecological solutions in european competition.
i think the commission has put forward a good report which aims to make it clear that waste policy must be a resource policy in the future.
it is therefore right that the commission has focused very much on defining vague legal concepts in the old directive and that it is finally defining clearly what is waste.
i am glad that it has been shown that energy recovery is intended to achieve high energy efficiency.
we know the best thing to do is avoid waste.
only when all these options have been exhausted can waste be disposed of!
i am afraid that we are taking a step backwards in waste policy, that the hierarchy of waste recycling is no longer the issue, but that incineration is the one to be given a back wind.
it would be a fatal sign if we fail to make it clear that we want to become a prevention and recycling society, but if we make the incineration of waste acceptable and help it to become accepted.
it would also be a disservice to climate action, because we know that would be bad for our climate.
i also hope that we will be able to set clear targets for prevention and recycling, because only then can we make it clear that we are pursuing a new direction in waste policy.
we therefore believe that it is in line with the recycling idea of this directive and ask the commission to take a positive view of this change and that we can carry out the recycling of food waste in germany and other countries, if a system is set up there, for the benefit of animals and the environment.
i would like to consider the proposed waste hierarchy in particular from the point of view of conserving resources.
this is why this directive is also linked to the current hot topic in europe, namely the security of energy supply.
europe's dependence on energy supplies from various third countries puts the question of resource scarcity and resource conservation at the centre of almost every political debate.
the recycling of waste should therefore also be a high priority in order to stabilise energy supplies.
according to common estimates, the world's oil reserves will be exhausted by 2050. that is why i consider it irresponsible that waste oil continues to be burned in large quantities in europe.
a third of all lubricants in europe are now made from waste oil, a good technology that should be encouraged in the future.
however, in order to maintain legal certainty, particularly in the field of recycling, it is very important to clearly define when a substance is waste and when it is a product when implementing the directive.
but to argue that methane is escaping and damaging the environment is misleading: there are technologies in place, and already today this gas is being captured and processed into biogas.
with over 1.3 billion tonnes of waste produced in the eu-27 each year, it is not a marginal issue but a central one.
the first priority is waste prevention.
the amount of waste is expected to remain stable until 2012 and to decline significantly thereafter.
recycling comes before waste management, just as in medicine rehabilitation comes before retirement.
i welcome open competition in the interests of consumers and the environment.
the portability of waste must be regulated in terms of substance and risk, not the question of transporters.
i see here the opportunities for europe's future in technology and environmental protection.
i am in favour of an open internal market, as we voted in the committee on the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
this means not just talking about the dramatic climate change, but together with our partners around the world taking the necessary action and enforcing it decisively before it is too late.
security includes a common energy supply and a common immigration policy which respects human rights as well as the need to integrate into our society.
we cannot find our security in a world that is on fire, in a world where people live in poverty and social oppression, where disorder reigns and where natural environmental conditions are further destroyed.
it is our collective responsibility to prepare the future in a sustainable way that is safe for our children and grandchildren, in human terms.
the better regulation work programme can help to achieve this by ensuring greater democratic control, transparency in the council, reliable transposition into national law, social, environmental, economic and administrative impact assessment and simplification of the legal texts themselves.
we should always ask ourselves, when we consider european legislation: does it serve the people and the environment?
(applause from the centre) turning to the problems of substance, the subject of energy will of course play a very important role in the council meeting on 8 and 9 march 2007. i would like to tell you today about our efforts to shape this council.
it has put on our agenda ambitious packages of directives and statements on energy and climate change.
we now have to create the crucial conditions for a substantive debate in the council in the run-up to the spring council in the forthcoming councils on competition and the environment.
i share the commission's objective of reducing co2 emissions by 30% by 2020, provided we find international partners.
i think we are all encouraged to point out when we travel internationally that europe is responsible for 15% of co2 emissions, but 85% are caused outside the european union.
we will face these discussions, because a functioning internal market within the energy market is essential.
we will put energy efficiency on the agenda, we will talk about renewable energy, and the german presidency of the council is pleading for the adoption of real figures and reduction approaches that are not left untouched.
to think that climate change is working because no one is noticing it, that would be a mistake, and that's why we have to end that mistake.
(applause from the centre) the issue of energy will be a matter of concern to us, particularly in the negotiations on a cooperation agreement with russia.
i am convinced that if europeans see the european union addressing globalisation, promoting economic growth and jobs, showing social solidarity, tackling climate change, increasing democratic legitimacy, bringing security to its citizens, defending our values and interests worldwide, then they will trust the european union to reform itself to meet tomorrow’s challenges and to deliver practical results.
the energy and commitment of chancellor merkel gives us real hope that we can find a consensus and make a compelling case for reform and progress to european citizens.
(laughter)we also see many politicians in europe that profess their love for europe in general, but then resist european solutions to energy, climate change, immigration and, of course, the institutional settlement.
(applause)and we face decisive tests in the near future, starting with the energy and climate change package in the european council in march.
we are not credible when we say that we want to speak with one voice to the outside world on energy and we keep speaking among ourselves with 27 voices and 27 markets.
we are not credible when we set the fight against climate change as one of the most important priorities for europe and afterwards we are not able to agree on specific goals for our policies.
it says a great line from you: 'my goal is also to make progress towards more climate protection in 2007.
[...] against this background, i will give special importance to environmental issues in the international context.
you are determined to prevent the introduction of a single limit on co2 emissions from new cars from 2012. so, here we are, back to the bitter routine.
we want to make further joint efforts to safeguard and build on the successes of recent times in a sustainable way, because it is important to make europe in the best possible shape for global competition.
i would like to remind you of the dates on which the various committees adopt their opinions: the energy council will meet the day after tomorrow to consider one of the most important issues for the european council, namely the energy action plan; the education and youth council will take place on 16 february, followed by the competitiveness council on 19 february and the environment council on 20 february.
finally, as decided last year, the european council will adopt the comprehensive eu energy action plan, which commits to the three fundamental objectives of the union in this area, namely security of supply, competitiveness and to reiterate environmental sustainability.
the strategic energy report presented by the commission in january shows that only an energy policy that takes account of all three pillars of this triangle will meet the challenges facing the union.
this package includes measures to strengthen competition in the internal energy market, to give greater prominence to renewable energy sources and to develop better energy technologies and energy efficiency.
the strengthening of the external component of energy policy is of the utmost importance in this respect.
i would like to emphasize that europe must speak with one voice more strongly on energy issues.
climate protection is inseparably linked to the energy issue.
in the face of the century-old challenge of climate change, we are determined to take ambitious and forward-looking decisions, including quantified targets, in this area as well.
the commission's proposals, which are fully consistent with those on energy, provide a good basis for this.
the european council must work to send a strong signal on the further development of the international climate regime after 2012. only if the developed countries, led by the european union, come forward with ambitious commitments and measures will it be possible to expect the emerging countries to be willing to make adequate commitments of their own to limit their rapidly growing emissions.
growth and jobs, climate change, energy: these are subjects on the minds of europeans every day.
i should like to focus on climate change, energy and the growth and jobs agenda.
two weeks ago the un panel on climate change set out clearly, calmly and irrefutably the facts on climate change.
at the same time, nobody questions the need to bring developing countries into the global efforts to cut emissions, and they can realistically be put on track to limit the growth in their emissions, to start with, and to start cutting by 2020. i expect the spring european council to send a convincing and strong signal on the need for determined action on climate change.
the resolution on climate change, which this house will adopt tomorrow and which is both encouraging and stunning, contains an important and urgent message, which the commission will pass on to the heads of state and government when climate issues are being discussed at the spring council.
that is why the spring council should agree a firm, independent eu commitment to achieving at least a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. this will be a real demonstration of our commitment.
energy is key to cutting emissions.
last month, the commission set out its vision of how to put european energy policy on track and i very much welcome the supportive stance of this parliament.
whenever we face a long-term challenge, it is essential that europeans can look to their democratically-elected representatives to explain why reform is essential, to put short-term change in the context of long-term purpose, to convince us that every one of us can play a part, for example through doing what we can on energy efficiency.
europe needs to send the clearest of messages that it is committed to transforming the shape of european energy over the next few decades.
it means a precise, ambitious and, in particular, binding target of bringing renewable energy into the mainstream by 2020. with a clear green light from the european council, the commission is ready to bring forward a wide range of precise legislative measures this year.
climate change and energy are integral parts of the broader issue on which the spring council will focus, the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs.
time is running out if we are to avoid the worst effects of climate change, tackle the global imbalance between energy supply and demand, and secure real modernisation.
i would like to point out that in the co2 deals that are now being negotiated between the member states, the commission and the council, one thing is being ignored: the targets we have set for ourselves are not man-made, but the goal of stopping global warming at 2 degrees is a natural one.
if we keep ignoring this objective, which was agreed in kyoto, in these agreements between various national interests and industrial interests, then i think we will not be able to claim for some time to come that we are pursuing an ambitious climate policy.
for us greens, the energy package and the 20% co2 reduction target for europe may sound ambitious, but they no longer correspond to the global objective of doing something about global warming.
if we really stick to that 20%, we can say goodbye to the idea of being able to influence global warming in a positive way, in other words, to reduce it.
we heard the other day that if you stay at 20%, global warming would be 4 or 5 degrees, which means that the negative climate forecasts would be much worse.
i can only appeal once more, before the energy summit in brussels, to stop these deals on the percentage reduction figures and finally implement at least what the commission has put on the table.
in my view, the most important part of this energy package is energy efficiency and saving, and i would ask the commission to go back to what was presented in the energy action plan last autumn - that is not so long ago - here.
at that time, it was assumed that reducing energy consumption was the right goal for europe.
today, the idea that europe too will continue to consume ever more energy is embedded in the energy package.
i think it is too late for a europe-wide check to be made as to whether the scandalous safety culture which we are now hearing repeatedly from the forsmark nuclear power station in sweden is a swedish problem or whether, over the decades of nuclear energy use, this deterioration of the safety culture, for example through staff reductions, is not a problem everywhere?
we can pretend that there is a renaissance of nuclear energy.
what does this mean in particular for an employment-intensive and sustainable energy and transport transition?
and what would have to happen to finally introduce a truly sustainable solution to employment, social, environmental and global problems?
it is about better regulation, about energy and climate change, but not in the sense of starting a long overdue social-ecological transformation that will really tackle the social divide and the climate catastrophe that everyone is talking about now.
in my view, this is in no way compatible with the objectives of a summit which should ask what can be done to create sustainable jobs, to combat climate change in a sustainable way and to create equally high quality working and living conditions for all citizens in the eu in a sustainable way.
secondly, we have succeeded in making it clear that, although there are three pillars of the lisbon strategy, growth and employment are essential if we are to pursue a sound environmental and social policy.
the summit and the activities of the commission, but also of parliament, will focus on energy policy.
at that time, the heads of state or government were not yet convinced that energy policy was truly a european issue and that we needed a european approach to this issue.
we have made it clear in this motion for a resolution that we must of course call for renewable energy sources as far as possible.
we have also dealt with the whole problem of co2 emissions in this resolution.
it will of course also be discussed in the parallel climate resolution, and in a much more intensive way.
we have set ourselves very ambitious targets for energy efficiency.
in fact, i think the figures have already shown that at 30% of global gdp, but only 15% of emissions, that's a sign that europe is leading the way in energy efficiency.
we also have to - and this has been mentioned - complete the internal energy market.
i shall therefore confine myself to the european parliament's expectations in the field of energy policy.
we want a strong, common energy policy for europe.
a functioning internal energy market is not an end in itself.
firstly, the internal energy market is part of the europe of projects.
recent studies of the european energy market have again shown that we are miles away from a functioning internal energy market.
so first of all we need the internal energy market for our citizens.
the second reason why a functioning internal energy market is important is the competitiveness of our companies, especially in manufacturing.
no company should pay more for the amount of energy it consumes than is fair and reasonable.
so we need the internal energy market secondly for europe and its competitiveness.
the third reason is that in a market with functioning price signals, energy is used efficiently, alternatives are developed, savings are made.
we are doing this with our report in order to achieve the objectives of climate protection with a european energy policy, as we hope, and there is a consensus in this house on this.
thirdly, we need a common energy policy for a europe which is aware of its global responsibilities.
first, the electricity and gas distribution networks should be operated and managed economically independently of energy production in order to end the decades-long market failure in the electricity and gas markets.
secondly, renewable energy contributes to a greater security of energy supply.
we therefore call for the share of renewable energy sources to be increased to 50% by 2040. the european parliament is committed to ambitious targets in the field of energy research, covering all areas: conventional, renewable and nuclear.
the european parliament is following the commission's proposals on energy efficiency and the 20% savings target by 2020. we want a roadmap to reduce co2 emissions by 30% by 2020. we also call for a reform of the emissions trading system and the european parliament calls for greater solidarity between member states in energy crises.
there is agreement across all political groups on the need for a common external energy policy.
energy issues must become an integral part of the european union's external relations.
i do not agree with mr lehne when he says that we must first do something for the economy before we can do something for the environment.
i would like to make one final comment on energy policy, because i have heard a lot of interesting things about it today.
i find it very shameful, mrs harms, that the red-green energy policy will lead to an increase in co2 emissions in germany.
the new challenges require rules that allow for sustainability and future competitiveness.
here too, the regions should be assured that these funds will continue to be made available to them according to certain criteria in the socio-ecological offer and in the market orientation in order to continue to design these regions as wine regions.
competitive agriculture and forestry, environmental performance, creation of jobs and a lively social fabric in rural areas.
it is certainly important to develop and outline the lines of new common policies: the commission has recently done the same for environmental and energy problems, which have now exploded in all their acuteness with climate change and the tensions over the supply of oil and gas.
this applies to financial services, to the energy question and to the free movement of workers in europe, which is a fundamental right of workers that we must implement everywhere.
we also find the call for further liberalisation of the energy sector unacceptable.
the commission is not in the age of globalisation, structural changes or dislocations affect the third world countries in the political sphere, in the social sphere and they are affected by changes in the climate.
often these are countries which have not yet or only insufficiently participated in sustainable development.
now the big energy issue.
the future depends on you, because we cannot achieve our energy strategy unless the bank remains active and a leader in this area.
it is a very comprehensive report and particularly timely, as the european council of 8 march is discussing a comprehensive energy package which the commission adopted last january.
the package proposes a comprehensive european strategy to meet the challenge of securing energy supplies while at the same time combating climate change.
it is significant that, at a time when the european council is going to be debating both this energy and climate change strategy package and the lisbon strategy, our economies in europe have been through a period of sharp increases in oil prices and at the same time have seen economic growth accelerate without experiencing particularly worrying price tensions.
however, this improvement in the economy, i repeat, does not detract from the relevance of the report and the conclusions and recommendations of mr dos santos' report, particularly as regards the functioning of the energy market and the impact of energy consumption on climate change.
we cannot ignore a number of facts, for example, that the energy supply in europe is conditioned by geopolitical factors, which are not entirely in our hands.
for example, the low interconnectedness of our gas and electricity energy grids makes us more vulnerable to such geopolitical factors and supply stresses, such as we have experienced this winter and last winter.
for example, that low interconnection, together with other national factors, makes it impossible for a genuine internal energy market to emerge, which is to the detriment of consumers who pay more for energy, receive lower quality energy and have less confidence in receiving that energy at acceptable price and quality conditions.
or, for example, that the amount of co2 we continue to put into the atmosphere is aggravating the greenhouse effect and the consequences of that effect on climate change.
the answer to the problems and challenges to which the report refers, some of which i have just mentioned, is, in my view, to a large extent to be found in the proposals contained in the energy package adopted by the commission last january and which will be one of the main issues to be discussed at the european council on 8 and 9 march.
our proposals cover both economic and environmental aspects, safety aspects arising from our energy dependence and proposals to improve energy efficiency.
the heads of state or government at the next european council must now give the political impetus needed to develop a genuine european energy strategy, such as the one proposed by the commission in its proposal and the one this parliament has been insisting on in its report today and in other reports and resolutions.
how can we better shape our energy supply in the future?
the development of renewable energies is therefore desirable.
we need more investment in research and development to make renewable energy more competitive and marketable.
if you look at the development of the chinese economy, especially the automotive industry, china will need as much energy for cars in 2030 as it is producing today.
the commission has therefore decided to make a further contribution to the development of the community's energy policy, in particular by introducing a new energy policy, which will be based on the principle of the free movement of energy sources.
they survived for 1,300 years in a muslim-majority environment - and this has to be said with reference to muslims - but today, in a time of massive western presence in iraq, they are threatened.
we are currently preparing a comprehensive report in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which also includes opinions from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on legal affairs.
the commission is not the vast majority of eu companies have committed themselves to social responsibility: to social and environmental responsibility, to the protection of people and the environment, to the safety of production.
i consider it a success that the requirement to make the award of public contracts conditional on compliance with social and environmental clauses has largely been removed.
we have seen this in the financial sector, just as we have seen it in the energy sector with the endesa-e.on case.
i still think it is appropriate that the main responsibility for this dossier should lie with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and not with the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
firstly, energy and climate change.
whilst we hope to have practical proposals on energy on the table in the third quarter of this year, much work will be needed in 2008. the key elements of the energy package must be put in place.
a well-functioning internal market, a vibrant, renewable sector, energy efficiency and solidarity and interconnection will all be taken forward.
we will also push for strong commitments by the eu and global stakeholders to reduce co2 emissions beyond 2012 when the kyoto protocol expires.
as concerns prosperity beyond the continuing consolidation of the internal market, ‘greening’ the transport sector will be a key theme, with action on urban transport, legislation on nitrogen oxide emissions from aviation and on emissions from ships.
i can assure you that, on the basis of these objectives, you will also be developing the right policies for the areas on which we must work now: growth, employment, climate change, energy demand, the knowledge society, consolidation of enlargement.
i would also like to address the question of how europe really wants to get back to its citizens, and to do so, i would like to discuss the subject of climate and energy policy.
i believe that the special role and task of europe has rarely been given as much attention as in recent weeks, when everything has been focused on the big issue of climate protection and energy policy, the biggest environmental issue.
the summit's achievement was to convey to citizens the impression that we are embarking on a paradigm shift, that we are taking renewable energy out of the niche and that we are also looking at energy efficiency in a very different way in the future.
i am not so sure that commissioner barrot will be able to implement the summit results properly, and i also have misgivings - i expressly state this here - about commission president barroso and his announced energy policy revolution.
the committee on transport, together with the committee on the environment, is responsible for most legislative acts, but transport always comes last.
it is possible to fly, because we can reduce the pollution of air transport considerably by means of sensible policies.
if we could get the member states to introduce sensible airspace controls, we could reduce co2 emissions from aviation by 8 to 12%.
i am always a little sceptical about whether urban transport is our subject, but the vice-president is absolutely right about one thing: a large part of the pollution comes from inner-city transport.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution is a very good one.
we are determined to continue to play an active and constructive role in the discussions to be held in the context of the preparatory conference in 2007. our aim for the european union is to start the review cycle in a constructive climate.
the european union considers that this review debate must take account of all three pillars of the npt, namely nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, in a balanced way.
initiatives in this field can help to convince countries interested in developing nuclear energy that there is no need to develop their own nuclear fuel cycle, so that they voluntarily abandon it.
the 1970 treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt) established the non-proliferation regime as we know it – with its fundamental balance between nuclear disarmament, non-proliferation and the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
from it then followed several aspects which are of great importance to the european union, namely the principle of regulated nuclear trade, nuclear safeguards and the international atomic energy agency, which monitors compliance.
the socialist group is basing its approach to security on dialogue, diplomacy, disarmament, prevention and sustainable and fair development.
sustainable conflict resolution, which combines these five elements, is only possible within the framework of a comprehensive approach.
we have a debate on the spread of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
we have just heard from you what efforts are needed to prevent nuclear energy from being used for military purposes in the civilian sector.
i have a recommendation: before we as europeans again allow ourselves to be divided because we can write off a unified foreign and security policy if we do not reach a common conclusion on such an issue in the eu before 58 billion dollars are installed for missile defense systems, it is better to invest this money in sustainable development.
it is an indispensable element of the european unification process and, in the present view, a present and current challenge in the energy sector.
finally, a fourth chapter will identify the challenges of the future, such as energy policy, climate change, european foreign and security policy, internal security and civil rights, and the preservation of a social responsibility approach through greater economic success.
we have a handful of major mega-issues ahead of us, and the question of climate protection was answered brilliantly at the summit last week.
the president of the council had courage at the climate summit last week.
to guarantee peace in the long term means to preserve the climate in this world.
the key to securing peace in the future is to reverse climate change.
this means that what integration performance territorial and geographical, economic and social has been in the last fifty years, must be climate change, skills and education and decent work in the next fifty years.
we have also learned something we did not know before - perhaps you did, mr foreign minister - that nuclear energy is now a renewable energy source!
we also need to see in this context that climate change is also a significant example of injustice in the world.
the continent that contributes least to the pollution of our environment, namely africa, is also the continent that suffers most from climate change.
that means that if we talk about, for example, creating justice and solidarity in the world, then it is also a moral obligation for us europeans to actually tackle the problem of climate change and, as has been rightly said, to put pressure on other regions of the world.
they want to advance the internal energy market, they want to slow down global warming, they want to reduce co2 emissions, they want to increase renewable energy and they want to strengthen energy solidarity.
first of all, on climate change, you are absolutely right.
climate change is either going to work in europe or not at all.
but if we look at it in more detail, climate protection is not just a european issue, it is a global issue.
only by bringing the other big co2 emitters on board can we achieve the global change that is necessary to actually slow down climate change.
so europe's climate policy must now follow europe's climate diplomacy, because the success of this diplomacy will ultimately determine the success of the whole project.
the internal energy market is not an end in itself, but we really need it.
everyone starts by talking about the historic importance of the last summit for climate change and the environment, overlooking the fact that in other important areas, such as employment policy and the european social model, no progress has been made and therefore no opportunities have been created.
the lisbon strategy, with its focus on the european union's global competitiveness and the global player, in my view prevents effective alignment both in the fight against climate change and in the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
the eu is once again getting in its own way by putting aside its own studies which conclude that a 30% reduction in greenhouse gases is necessary to actually avoid irreversible warming and thus up to 86 000 additional climate deaths per year in the eu.
the difference between the 30% and the 20% is whether we take the chance to prevent climate catastrophe or whether we march on anyway.
it is also not surprising that the fight against poverty, social exclusion and social divisions remained marginalised at the summit, and was not linked to a consistent response to global warming and environmental degradation.
mr verheugen, despite what you have said today, it is precisely this close interconnection between social and environmental issues that is not addressed at the summit.
the european commission has for years been presenting studies showing the employment potential associated with the use of renewable energy sources, the external costs, but also the steering effect of eco-taxes.
the collection of these data could increase the revenue of the european union, which is necessary for urgent social and environmental measures.
this logic of the markets explains why, for example, the action plan for energy policy for europe has only included the fight against climate change as a last main objective.
it also explains why the european council is pressing ahead with the epa negotiations despite the summit's complaint about the growing share of greenhouse gas emissions from developing countries.
there are at least three conclusions: first, we need to prioritize contemporary policies to combat poverty and social exclusion and climate change, then we need to stop the epa, and finally we need to delete the passages in the draft constitution that aim at economic deregulation, privatization and armament.
in this case, it was primarily a success of chancellor merkel, who was minister for the environment for four years many years ago and who knows the european council of ministers for the environment.
focus on energy and climate policy: unfortunately, the public debate following this successful summit has been limited to the internal debate on renewable energy.
the summit document documented that much more was decided on energy security and climate compatibility.
what is the role of nuclear energy?
it is a fact that for every kilowatt hour of nuclear energy, 15 grams of co2 are produced, for every kilowatt hour of lignite, 970 grams.
i have the impression in my member state that we could tackle the climate catastrophe by driving a little slower, changing light bulbs and planting three trees on each holiday in africa.
it is necessary that we think very hard about where most co2 emissions are taking place.
it is therefore important to consider how the regions that emit the most co2 can also reduce their emissions.
it is interesting to note that the chairman of the german spd now also walks around the country as a science expert and calculates how much co2 emissions are caused by nuclear energy.
so the first thing we have to think about is how we can set targets for energy production in the car industry.
it is important that we europeans, free of ideology and in the light of the responsibilities we have to assume here, also discuss the keyword nuclear energy in a factual manner and thus contribute to the fact that this debate can once again be conducted in a factual manner in the member states.
on energy and climate, a few final words: many have rightly pointed out that this summit is not the end of the road.
i have mentioned energy research, i have mentioned the strengthening of our external energy relations, and this of course also applies, mr verheugen, to the ambitious objective of renewable energy.
it has been pointed out that we europeans cannot ultimately save the world's climate on our own.
we need to keep an eye on how energy and climate policy develops in key countries such as the united states, china and india.
i shall be in washington next monday and, in agreement with my american colleague, will be opening a joint major event there with the participation of german and american companies, with whom we shall be discussing how we can strengthen the transatlantic technological partnership, especially in the field of the energy industry.
i would point out, in relation to the efforts in the usa, that beyond the federal level, many states in the usa are already doing exemplary work in the field of climate and energy policy.
there will be so-called outreach meetings in the g8 context, both at summit and foreign minister level, to which not only china and india but also mexico, south africa and brazil will be invited, and both meetings - at both foreign minister and summit level - will focus on energy and climate.
in the field of tension between economic efficiency, high social standards and the protection of our environment, we should stop the confrontational, polarizing view of the past, which pits economy against ecology and ecology against economy.
it is simply not true that anyone is against climate change and against environmental protection when they say we also have a responsibility for jobs.
it is simply not true that when someone says we must do more to protect our environment, he is saying that he is not interested in jobs.
the truth is that a european industry that leads the world in not just environmental technology but also in environmentally friendly products and services is the one that will be best able to create jobs and a future for people.
but since the beginning of this year, things have changed faster than we dared hope: there is a functioning national government and a functioning parliament; the eu has decided to reduce eufor forces and the question of the whereabouts of the high representative and the 'bonn power' is being re-examined; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the murder of the trade unionists clearly shows that not even an attempt is being made to cover up what happened there, that not even a serious attempt is being made to actually find and punish the perpetrators, but that a climate of absolute lawlessness prevails.
the first is the issue of energy and climate policy.
i would just like to emphasize once again that the council has succeeded in drawing important conclusions on the basis of the commission's proposals in this important area of energy and climate policy, thus demonstrating the european union's ability to act in this area.
but the spirit in which we have managed to agree on a 20% improvement in energy efficiency by 2020 and binding targets on renewable energy with a 20% share should also enable us to act together in the international negotiations that are to come and to tackle the task now necessary of bringing down the breakdown to the individual shares of the nation states.
a european parliament election campaign in 2009 in which we cannot tell people that we can enlarge the european union, how many members the future commission will have, that energy policy is a european responsibility, that we will work together on matters of internal security and legal policy on the basis of majority decisions as the requirements require, (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
secondly, the subject of energy and climate change will of course be on the agenda of this summit.
here we will discuss together the technical details of climate change, especially with a view to the exchange of new technologies and innovations.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the directive.
i hope that we can overcome the obstacles which still prevent the commission from negotiating with russia - i thank the commission for working with incredible enthusiasm and commitment on this - because the negotiations on a new partnership agreement are of course essential, especially with regard to the issues of energy security and the energy partnership.
the spring european council demonstrated the commitment to delivering results in the area of energy and the fight against climate change.
it is obvious that even the biggest member states cannot tackle climate change, energy security or mass migration alone.
secondly, it has become clear that we face challenges that nation states can no longer tackle alone in many areas, such as terrorism, globalisation, foreign and security policy and energy security.
a stable financial environment is a prerequisite for the economic growth that the eu needs, and the protection of consumers.
they also expressed their conviction that the proposals of the special envoy would lay the foundations for sustainable economic and political development of kosovo and contribute to the stabilisation of the region.
the un has been running kosovo for eight years and, clearly, the status quo is not sustainable.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not affected by the pollution of the environment.
we are asking for something which is quite natural in the interests of the environment and the citizens, and i hope that the council will finally understand this and be prepared to deal with these two dossiers as well.
and what is the problem with the savary report, which, in addition to oil pollution, also includes chemical pollution in its civil liability?
this initiative, which has been discussed in various forums for several years, has not just been accepted completely by israel and is again on the table today, put there by the arab countries with greater energy and determination.
a few words on the nuclear programme: as you know, on the evening of saturday 24 march, while we were in berlin, the united nations security council unanimously adopted resolution 1747. resolution 1747 is the third resolution adopted unanimously by the security council on the subject of iran, in order to comply with its obligations, which are obligations arising from the vienna opinions or reports, which dr el baradei, as director of the international energy agency, has put to the vote of the governing council.
thirdly, we must also bring the issue of technology transfer into this debate, which is what makes some countries feel that there is a double standard in the use of nuclear energy.
if that were the final solution, we would be in a breaking solution of a country as big, as important as sudan, with such fundamental energy reserves, and it would be a great catastrophe for all of us.
these are two countries which receive from sudan the major part, or a very important part, of their energy supply of oil.
the middle east, kosovo, iran, energy security, and many more.
in terms of energy security, we have to make sure that every country is equally secure.
i sometimes get the impression that, although some of them are calling for solidarity on energy, which is true, we must also show solidarity on other issues in order to arrive at a common european position.
the european union must therefore not be guided by the existing dependencies on the energy sector in the forthcoming negotiations on a new partnership agreement with russia.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
in fact, i made a compromise regarding your group's position on hospital exemptions and other things, because i thought, as some of you think, we should have a strong, safe regulation which makes sure that patients get the best scientific support and the best therapies in a safe environment.
it is right that we define a product that includes efficiency, solidarity, sustainable development and proximity to the citizens.
we call for a clarification as soon as possible of the impact of this mission on the sustainability of the current cfsp state.
another key word: energy foreign policy.
we call for the gradual establishment of a common external energy policy.
we have checked whether environmental legislation has been given priority, whether crisis prevention has been strengthened and whether - which has been the subject of intense debate - 20% of the budget is actually spent on basic education and basic health care in developing countries.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the budgetary part available for the policies for which the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is primarily responsible is not very large.
the european environment agency did an excellent job, as usual.
the committee on the environment has no fundamental criticism of the implementation of the budgets of its four agencies.
the commission's responsibility in the field of environment, public health and food safety.
they were below 80% in both health and food safety and the environment.
on the one hand, the establishment of the public health executive agency was not yet completed and at the same time staff was committed to the preparation of the new health and consumer protection programme, and on the other hand, the budgetary commitments problems in 2004 in the environmental field led to payment problems in 2005. the commission's explanations are understandable, but it must be able to anticipate any difficulties in order to take immediate action.
of course, climate change is also important.
that is why we must also focus on climate and sustainable policies in research projects.
the commission's proposals have not yet been adopted, although we have repeatedly called for it in the sterckx report and in the report by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
like the energy treaty for south-east europe, the agreement on the common european aviation area is a necessary step towards an ever closer union of europeans, which remains the union's deepest calling.
the harmonisation of european standards and rules in the field of air transport in such crucial areas as safety, security, competition, social policy, consumer rights and environmental protection.
airspace controls can reduce co2 emissions in the european union by up to 12%.
we also support the efforts to introduce a sensible european system of emissions trading for aviation in order to achieve further environmental effects.
but we shall discuss the rationality of emissions trading elsewhere.
the financial resources which were initially set aside for the authority in the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy were intended as a warning to those concerned to go ahead and make up the shortfall.
mr president, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr seeber, for his excellent work on the flood directive, and the whole environment committee for its positive contribution.
the aim of the proposal is to reduce the risks posed by floods to human health, economic activities and the environment.
in addition, provision has been made in the context of flood risk management to deal with a possible increase in the frequency and intensity of floods due to climate change and - i agree with mr seeber - i am particularly pleased that parliament has insisted on a strong reference to climate change.
as climate change is already happening, it is clear that in addition to addressing and reducing it, adaptation will inevitably be needed.
we need a model, a regulatory environment in which both sides cooperate more closely economically, cooperate and look to the future, but where it is not about coherence, but about the two economic areas as well as the societies developing in their own autonomy.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment.
however, i would like to make it clear that the country is on the right track to join the eu in the near future, as it is facing the political, environmental and economic challenges of the copenhagen criteria.
both are conscious of the need for growth to respect the environment and to make it sustainable for future generations.
the second idea is creating energy independence.
normally people talk about energy security.
i am talking about energy independence: a three-dimensional approach to energy choice that aims to achieve a clean world.
the prime learning environment is five to seventeen years of age.
true education is the acquisition of enlightened feelings and enlightened powers to understand daily events and to understand the permanent truth linking man to his environment, human and planetary.
it is essential to ensure that citizens are empowered with good quality of life encompassing nutritious food, good habitat, clean environment, affordable healthcare, quality education and productive employment, integrated with our value system drawn from civilisational heritage leading to the comprehensive development of the nation that will bring smiles to one billion people.
let me now discuss the second mission, ‘leading to energy independence’.
firstly, the continuous depletion of fossil-material-derived oil, gas and coal reserves, as predicted by the world energy forum, of which you are all aware.
the second is the continuous degradation of the environment, primarily due to extensive use of fossil materials to generate energy.
the solution to these problems can be found through energy independence, which i have presented to my country.
what form of energy independence do i propose in india?
this takes into consideration the energy economies planned and the design and production of energy-efficient equipment and systems.
solar cell efficiency, common to the european union and india, has to increase from the present level of 20% to 55% through intensified research on carbon-nanotube-based solar cells.
i would suggest setting up an india-eu renewable energy development programme for advanced r&d in all forms of renewable energy, leading to the availability of commercial-class large-scale power plants within the next decade.
the ‘world knowledge platform’ will take up missions in some of the areas discussed further, which are of the utmost importance to all of us and to making our world a safe, sustainable, peaceful and prosperous place to live.
the first is water: desalination of sea water using solar energy, channelisation, networking of rivers and cost-effective safe drinking water.
the third is agriculture and food processing: increased production of food grain in an environment of reduced land, reduced water and reduced manpower; preservation of food; food processing; cost effective storage and distribution.
the fifth is transportation systems: fossil-fuel-free transportation systems using renewable energies, safety systems, hardware and embedded software integration.
the sixth is habitat: an energy-efficient, water-efficient, pollution-free habitat.
i have presented three missions: ‘the evolution of an enlightened society’, ‘leading to energy independence’ and ‘creating the ‘world knowledge platform’.
‘beautiful environment leads to beautiful minds.
beautiful environment leads to beautiful minds.
our health, the environment, infrastructure and property are all at risk.
the most sophisticated legislation cannot be effective unless the political will to implement it in a sustainable way is strong enough and the whole population is involved.
if climate change continues to worsen, if the governments in the source countries become even more corrupt and remain corrupt, then we will have to expect more inflow.
the critical issue is that the favourable cyclical environment is not being used sufficiently by the member states to consolidate their budgets.
the commission will support the search for such a solution, based on partnership and combining economic, social and environmental aspects.
when we speak here in parliament about disabled people, especially women and girls, we must always ask ourselves whether we should not rather talk about the disabling environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the number of convictions is so low that one can almost speak of a climate of impunity.
unfortunately, i did not find any reference to sustainable urban development or the partnership principle in yesterday's press release on the signing of the german national strategic framework plan.
with the enlargement of the eu to the east, a european strategy for the sustainable development of this type of housing is becoming particularly important.
a constructive competitive environment for providers, a competition of the best practices, the most meaningful research and the most successful healthcare strategies can be useful.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i speak on behalf of our whole group when i wish you all the strength and energy for the next few days and the next week, so that you can come back with good health and new energy to continue the work here.
the aim is to make the supremacy of competitiveness the basis of not only customs duties but also consumer, environmental, social and development policies, in the spirit of free trade, by eliminating as far as possible all barriers to trade.
we will have to strike a balance between, on the one hand, pursuing the opening up of markets to the countries in a case-by-case decision-making area and, on the other hand, of course, also demanding standards, for example in the fields of the environment and occupational safety and health, but also in the field of intellectual property.
on the external front, i am thinking of wars, the fight against international terrorism, the global challenges of energy and climate change (hydrogen).
we must nevertheless recognize that this great neighbour is important to us in the energy sector and for other reasons as well.
the commission's vice-president mr president, a year ago the commission submitted to the european parliament and the council a draft regulation laying down the general rules for the granting of community financial assistance in the field of transeuropean transport and energy networks.
the european institutions are unanimous in their view that the continuous development of the transeuropean transport network is necessary to achieve the union's economic, social and environmental objectives.
these priorities are in line with the commission's communication on the promotion of inland waterway and maritime traffic and, more generally, on the development of sustainable transport.
the completion of the internal market, open borders, the euro, the many new policies in important areas such as the environment, security and justice.
there is a budget that will allow us to do what we need to do until 2013. and we're setting the right policy priorities, like climate change and energy policy.
and then we'll talk about the important issues of our time that people are concerned about: climate change, energy policy, the fight against terrorism and migration require a forward-looking common approach.
together, we can lead by example in tackling climate change, in fighting poverty and insecurity in the world.
we must work together to ensure a reliable supply of energy and raw materials.
we must work together to combat the inhuman waste of illegal migration and to do so we need a strong and effective european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
but i am quite clear - and i agree with my colleague - that it is not a question of protecting the environment and possibly restricting the freedom of movement of anyone, but of safety!
because there's so much information about it that the waste that is collected - from lighters to bottles over 100 ml - wouldn't have to happen at all if you thought about it a little bit before you took a flight.
we felt that a well-functioning internal market created a favourable environment for innovation.
an example of this is the climate change debate, where we as europeans are actually creating new fields of innovation, especially by focusing on reducing co2.
we are talking about reducing co2 emissions.
we believe that the european union should be committed to ecological and economic reconstruction.
but it is a country that is exploited on the one hand and where international forces and corporations have fuelled the war in darfur and elsewhere to further their respective energy interests.
we know that energy and therefore energy security are not the competence of the european union today, but that this is a matter of the security of all our member states and we must therefore be able to act accordingly.
in this context, there has been a lot of discussion recently about climate and energy, but also about the european union's common foreign policy and the fight against terrorism and crime.
they also want the new policies: energy policy, health policy, disaster prevention and mutual aid in the event of such events.
of course we want to succeed, but not for ourselves, but for this european union, because on 25 march we recognised the challenges we face and the need for new opportunities in the fields of climate change and energy.
and if we want this european union to show more solidarity on climate and energy, we need the appropriate means.
we want to decide who does what, following the enlargement of the european union from 15 to 27 member states within a few years, and we need to decide on the policies, the new challenges facing us on energy, climate and migration.
i would like to call today on all those who may have responsibilities in this regard to bring about a ceasefire as soon as possible, so that a climate can be created which is conducive to progress towards peace.
it is not good for the climate either when a very senior official of the council presidency in the committee on civil liberties, when asked what happens to parliament's amendments on prüm, replies: 'so if we take them into account and open up the package that has been put together with the member states, we will not get any further than that!'
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is not in the light of the declining cod stocks in the baltic sea, as indicated by ices surveys, and the demands of the fishermen concerned for fishing conditions which will allow them to maintain their social environment, i should like to acknowledge the work of my colleague mr chmielewski.
but if sustainability is to be more than just a matter of words, it must also be reflected in the way we work on board fishing vessels and in our personal attitude towards scientific standards.
climate change is a challenge for us.
i would like to say a few words about a specific policy area: climate policy is currently a topic of discussion in europe mainly in connection with the g8 summit.
since 2004, there have been some developments, such as the debate on climate change.
since then, a whole series of discussions have taken place: a public hearing took place in parliament on 20 july 2006; there were reports from the committee responsible, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety; there were opinions from the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on internal market and consumer protection.
russia is our neighbour, russia is about to join the wto, it is a major supplier of energy to the eu.
russia's economy, in turn, depends to a large extent on its energy exports.
secondly, russia must create a better investment climate for european companies, not by changing the law, but by better applying and, above all, enforcing the law.
the energy charter is an important point in our relations with russia.
without abandoning the energy charter, the eu should try to incorporate the important elements of the charter in the new partnership and cooperation agreement.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
at this g8 summit, a climate declaration was made that is clearly worthless.
i agree with the declarations made by the environmental organizations.
greenpeace says that's absolutely not enough, and the federation for the environment and conservation says that's a spongy promise that's been made here.
mr president, madam president, as i have just said in my first reply, the commission is working with you, is putting forward proposals for the creation of a multilateral environmental organization within the united nations, with clear authority and regulatory functions.
mr president, mr martin, the commission bases the european union's climate policy and its scientific and economic analysis of climate change on rigorous, available and up-to-date information.
the commission is aware that, according to the results of recent research, with a stabilisation of greenhouse gases at the level of 550 parts per million in co2 equivalents, the chances of reaching the target of a maximum warming of two degrees are slim.
accordingly, in the communication entitled 'limiting global warming to 2°c', adopted this year, the commission states that in order to have a 50% chance of not exceeding that 2°c limit, it will be necessary to keep greenhouse gas concentrations substantially below that level of 550 parts per million, in co2 equivalents, for the next few decades, and that emissions will then have to be reduced to stabilise at around 450 parts per million.
this means that between now and 2050, global greenhouse gas emissions will have to be reduced by at least 50% compared to 1990 levels.
this technical feasibility has recently been confirmed by the report of working group 3 of the intergovernmental panel on climate change.
to limit climate change to two degrees celsius, to increase by two degrees celsius, the developed countries must take the initiative and collectively reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by the year 2020 compared to 1990 levels, which is the target we set in the proposals we adopted in january this year in the commission and which were subsequently endorsed by the european council.
at the same time, developing countries' emissions should peak between 2020 and 2025. we are facing a global challenge in which the european union, which is responsible for 14% of the total greenhouse gas emissions on the planet, is ready to take international leadership.
the european union hopes that the united nations climate change conference in bali this year will give a boost to negotiations on future international cooperation on climate after 2012, which should lead to an agreement on the effort required to achieve global emission reductions.
the point is that moving forward together would allow us to move forward with much more ambitious targets than if other major greenhouse gas emitters were not willing to commit themselves at this year-end conference in the post-kyoto negotiations and europe was left to its own devices.
mr president, mr posselt, the european union applies strict rules to shipments of waste between member states and to shipments to third countries.
the community regulation on shipments of waste aims to prevent the illegal transport of waste, including cases where waste is transported illegally from one member state to another in what is called, as you put it in your question, 'waste tourism'.
transport of waste is only allowed if the subsequent recovery or disposal operations meet the environmental protection requirements laid down in european and member state regulations.
european legislation sets the strictest requirements for the transport of hazardous waste and waste destined for disposal.
it is illegal under these rules to transport such waste to another member state without first notifying the competent authority of the country of dispatch in writing.
the commission's main priorities include ensuring that member states apply european legislation on waste shipments correctly and preventing and reducing illegal shipments.
this year awareness-raising events and meetings were organised with the member states in order to improve the implementation and enforcement of waste shipment rules in the states.
the adoption by the commission of a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law will also be an important step.
we cannot accept the illegal transport of waste from germany to the czech republic, nor the illegal dumping of waste at its final destination.
the commission will monitor the situation closely to ensure that european environmental legislation is properly applied.
member states must provide for on-the-spot inspections and controls of shipments of waste and provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties to punish infringements.
i have two additional questions: firstly, do you think enough is being done to combat illegal waste tourism?
it welcomed the commission's handbook on the application of environmental criteria and called for the publication of guidelines on the application of social criteria.
here, municipalities - and only municipalities - operate facilities such as kindergartens, water supply, water disposal and waste between themselves.
i would like to point out once again that it is good that the environmental and social criteria are made more widely known.
it is not just about economic advantages or disadvantages in our community, but about protecting the health of our fellow citizens and protecting an intact environment.
i agree with the original version of the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the presidency is very pleased that the commission has been able to establish that cyprus and malta have achieved a high degree of sustainable convergence and to present proposals on the basis of this for the introduction of the euro in these two countries.
as regards malta, the commission issued an opinion on the criterion of the sustainability of public finances, conditional on the approval by the ecofin council of the annulment of the excessive deficit procedure opened for that country in 2004, and the ecofin council of 5 june confirmed this point, ending the excessive deficit procedure with regard to malta.
the results should be available in early 2008. all our efforts need to be seen in the context of the ongoing and progressive management improvements which have been introduced by the commission since 2001. i entirely share parliament’s view on the issues of fostering greater social cohesion and sustainable economic development.
the foreign ministers of the european union have repeatedly and unequivocally expressed their full support for special envoy ahtisaari and their conviction that the ahtisaari package can provide an essential basis for the sustainable economic and political development of kosovo and contribute to strengthening stability in the region as a whole.
on possible perspectives you have addressed the energy community already existing in the region decisions must be taken when the previous political decision has been made.
finally, it calls for a coordinated overall approach to the digital environment, including the analysis of non-market factors such as privacy protection, citizens' access to information technologies and internet security.
the report also calls on the commission to speed up the examination of measures relating to collective actions in crossborder disputes between traders and consumers in the digital environment.
on the contrary, the measure of policy must be consumer protection in the digital environment, too, and in particular!
climate protection and energy solidarity have been included, national parliaments are being involved even more in shaping national european policies, the competences between the eu and the member states are being defined even more clearly, and the conditions for enhanced cooperation, especially in the field of internal and judicial policy, have been facilitated.
only by acting together and with purpose can we tackle one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, the threat of climate change.
the decisions taken by the spring european council on an integrated energy and climate policy are groundbreaking.
(applause from the centre) it is therefore right that we should now include climate protection among the objectives of the european union in the new draft treaty.
in addition to the climate protection decisions, other long-term agreements were signed: on enhanced regulatory cooperation with the usa and canada, on the establishment of an energy early warning system and an investment dialogue with russia, on better enforcement of intellectual property protection with japan.
we have done this, for example, through our package of measures on energy and climate change; through our focus on innovation; through our drive against red tape; through legislation which delivers practical benefits for consumers, such as the legislation we proposed on roaming, which was signed before us here today.
we cannot give our citizens the impression that we are just talking about institutions: we have to concentrate on practical results for our citizens, and governments and citizens will have the confidence to tackle sometimes very difficult institutional issues if they have the confidence that the institutions can deliver when it comes to the concerns of european citizens - growth and employment, and europe's new agenda: energy, climate change and security.
second, the reform treaty will offer new possibilities and reinforce legal bases to deal with the challenges of energy policy and climate change.
in particular, the commission is very pleased with the solidarity clause on energy security and agreement to add combating climate change to the treaty.
energy security and climate change are now core priorities for the union.
but the substance has been preserved in both climate and energy policy and in the question of the reform treaty.
like many on the left in europe, i cannot condone anything that promotes nationalism and makes it even more difficult to use the resources of the european union to solve social, environmental and global problems.
how can we europeans tell the rest of the world that we are serious about fighting climate change and energy security and promoting job growth if we are not able to solve the institutional issue?
furthermore, the militarisation of the eu has been accelerated and there have been no commitments for another policy on climate change.
today, the european parliament is discussing the report by our colleague jeanine hennis-plasschaert on the draft directive presented by the commission in 2006 to oblige member states to identify and protect critical infrastructure in areas such as energy, health, communications and transport from terrorist attacks.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
they waste taxpayers' money by demanding repeated repetitions of the efsa risk assessments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
we are thus offering the eu great opportunities: better food and feed through gmos with nutritional added value, efficient renewable raw materials, carbon neutral and therefore climate neutral.
i should also like to thank the committee on industry, research and energy for the active debate and those who made it possible for this report to be adopted within such a short time limit.
from a formal point of view, there is the argument that two reports by the commission and the final report on the sector inquiry on energy clearly indicated that there is a need for new legal measures at european level to achieve the basic goals of security of supply and competitiveness.
there has been a substantial change in the energy world which justifies this proposal.
firstly, we have historically high energy prices.
if oil prices are high, it means that gas prices are also high and it has an influence on the price of coal – basically, all energy costs are higher.
the second challenge, that of climate change, is much more clearly pronounced.
we know that the energy sector is a major contributor of greenhouse gases, so we need to strengthen the instruments to fight against climate change.
with new member states joining the european union, we have a much greater need for stronger solidarity mechanisms to be in place in the energy sector in the european union.
the energy policy objectives – security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness – very much depend on the situation on the eu common market.
firstly, we should look at the level of cross-border market energy flows and, secondly, see that national regulators should have powers, but also obligations that new investments are made.
i would emphasise also that there have been a couple of other good, important points on energy efficiency, smart grids, biogas and balance with long-term contracts.
we should not forget that energy is a particular commodity, like earth, water and air.
at the same time, i could say that it is a scarcer commodity at this stage, until we have learnt how to get more energy from the sun, the wind or from biomass.
it is extremely difficult to equip the internal market in the energy sector better.
we have a lot of problems, partly because energy is in the hands of a state company, partly because it is in the hands of an oligopoly, partly because the state intervenes and sets prices.
the countries which are energy companies do not necessarily invest the most in networks which are unbundled, but according to the figures available, countries and companies invest very heavily in interconnectors and in networks which are not unbundled.
we have to ask ourselves: is there really a distinction to be made between member states where energy companies are state-owned and those where they are privately owned?
we all agree on the objective: we want to create a single european energy market.
it harms the environment, the animals, and through the food chain and other channels, also the people.
it is right to replace this element wherever possible and useful, but not always and at any cost and not because of the properties of the material itself, but when its use actually poses a danger to the environment.
the energy-saving lamp, which some people would like to see legislated for climate protection, also contains mercury.
if the energy-saving lamp were widely adopted, we would have at least as much of it in our households as we do today with traditional barometers.
we need to show our solidarity with a strategic measure such as the european initiative to protect critical energy, transport and technological infrastructures, which require strong prevention and protection because the threat of terrorism is unfortunately directed primarily at critical infrastructure.
unlike the committee on industry, research and energy or the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which is the lead committee, did not recognise the importance of the european level in the protection of critical infrastructures.
we are clearly saying that we want to open postal markets in all member states by the end of 2010, with a few exceptions until 2012. we are saying clearly that those who come from the protected area do not have the right to participate in what is already a competitive environment.
the postal services in the european union are more than one million employees who naturally also want to know how they will fare in a liberalized environment.
however, the committee on regional development says that further impact assessments are needed to ensure the sustainability of universal service.
the vote will take place tomorrow, 11 july 2007.
the next item is the report by willi piecyk, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the future eu maritime policy: a european vision for oceans and seas (2006/2299 (ini)) (a6-0235/2007)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this.
tackling climate change: shipping is the most environmentally friendly mode of transport in the world, but it is not the cleanest.
4 percent of the world's co2 emissions, and then there's a lot of sulfur dioxide and nitrous oxide emissions.
i am convinced that we cannot get around the emissions trading in shipping.
but even more important is a drastic reduction in shipping emissions and also the use of renewable energy such as wind and solar on ships.
maritime climate policy includes providing shore-based energy to ships in ports wherever possible, and it also includes implementing the long overdue commission action plan to promote offshore wind energy.
keyword: marine pollution: 100% of ship-generated waste in ports must be disposed of.
but at the same time, when 80% of marine pollution is caused by land-based sources, it is necessary that there is a concrete action plan from the commission to deal with this.
(applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
we europeans - and i say this from the point of view of the committee on industry, research and energy - have a lot to offer in the field of maritime policy!
blue biotechnology is a future area, with a lot of potential for energy from the sea and also for reducing co2 emissions.
first, on the energy side: the ocean provides an infinite amount of energy.
the wind energy sector has a special place here, and it has great potential.
europe needs strong incentive systems to encourage investors to take the risk of investing in offshore wind energy.
i therefore expressly welcome the fact that the report calls on the commission to present an action plan for the development of wind energy.
the wind energy action plan also achieves the target of meeting 20% of the pirmäinen energy demand by 2020 from renewable energy, as decided at the spring summit.
this is the only way to achieve the 50 gw of installed offshore capacity proposed in the report for 2020. secondly, climate change and shipping.
climate change will have a significant impact on the seas and oceans.
therefore, the transport mode using water as a transport medium must also be included in emissions trading.
given that shipping emits much more greenhouse gases than air transport, i support the rapporteur's call for shipping to be included in the emissions trading system.
the offshore wind energy site is growing.
climate research is being written about in a big way.
the region is of key importance to us, particularly for eu energy supplies – not only security of energy supplies but also diversification.
we are also promoting a dialogue with all the black sea countries on energy security to provide a transparent framework for production, transport and transit, not only in a regional context but also to enhance our own energy security and supplies through diversification.
we are also working on upgrading the existing energy infrastructure and on promoting the development of new infrastructure in the context of a caspian sea-black sea-eu energy corridor.
we are saying that it is a good idea to use the pipeline because it stops congestion on the seas and diminishes environmental risks.
for oil, we have not, so far, had trans-european energy networks.
so we should bring oil back into our energy debate in this house, as well as in the council and in the commission.
this is good for the environment and good for transport in europe!
it doesn't fit into the climate policy landscape!
these include complaints that network access or a favourable route cannot be granted because it has already been awarded to the group's own railway, that their wishes cannot be met because a loop has previously been extended or a bypass has been dismantled by the state-owned companies, that slow stops are imposed without reason so that the wishes of the new freight transport companies cannot be met, that track prices are drastically increased when state-owned railway companies are sold to another company, that cross-subsidisation is not prevented, that non-state-owned companies often pay higher energy prices than subsidiaries.
this must be part of an overall strategy to promote fair competition in fashion and thus sustainable development.
the commission is seeking to create a fair and balanced competitive environment for intermodal competition.
on the last point, noise pollution, i shall present a communication from the commission on the measures to be taken.
the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
the noise pollution is something we cannot tolerate in the big cities at the moment, when, for example, railway trains run through residential areas at night.
you have just said, mrs barsi-pataky, that a transport policy must be able to renew itself constantly in order to adapt, and you have stressed the importance of making this growth in transport sustainable.
you welcomed the realistic approach of the commission's communication; the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide the union with a comprehensive and coherent policy framework for the development of the union's energy sector.
these objectives relate to the four pillars of our approach: sustainable mobility, safe mobility, innovative mobility and the international dimension.
you have also supported the concept of commodity and indeed, to succeed in modal shift, we must reduce the negative impacts of all modes of transport to ensure the efficiency and environmental performance of each mode of transport.
this applies not only to safety aspects but also to many other areas such as environmental compatibility, investment activity keyword tens implementation and logistics.
we are making an important contribution to mobility and environmental protection by substantially promoting the relatively environmentally friendly modes of transport, rail and inland waterway transport, which have unfortunately always been neglected.
the european commission must not exploit the current climate debate, which is somewhat hysterical, to construct its own competences.
if we want to improve the transport situation and thus the environmental quality in cities in a sustainable way, we must take people into europe.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to say to mrs satu hassi, very simply but very frankly, that i am surprised by her judgments, as it is true that we are totally committed to sustainable mobility.
i believe that i have made a courageous commitment with mr dimas to share the greenhouse gas emission allowances with aviation.
if you want a sustainable development policy, there comes a time when you can only do it by coordinating and harmonizing at european level.
but president costa is right when he says that we really need to redouble our efforts to coordinate funding because - as mrs ayala and others have pointed out - we are faced with a budget that is too limited to be able to really undertake the major infrastructure works that will enable sustainable mobility.
this is the case with ertms to equip new railway lines and then, of course, it will be the case with energy saving and green propulsion to ensure the sustainability of road mobility.
all this will be the subject of an energy efficiency action plan and will be part of the european energy strategy defined by the european council.
i thank parliament and particularly mrs barsi-pataky, because i believe that we are committed to a transport policy which takes account of the requirements of the future, which is not at all looking to the past but to the future, with this dual objective: to enable mobility as required by the lisbon objectives and, at the same time, to ensure that this mobility remains compatible with the imperatives of environmental protection and the fight against global warming.
i am very grateful to parliament for its support and i personally feel very committed to this effort for sustainable mobility.
we cannot ignore the environmental and social consequences of china's growth.
commissioner mandelson, if i read this correctly, you said at a trade union conference in the uk last month: whether in multilateral or bilateral trade talks, we are aiming for fair environmental and social standards.
i think we should link the patent issue with the eu's climate objectives.
yes, with the climate targets!
china is suffering from enormous environmental problems at the moment.
social security is in jeopardy, the government is under pressure because of enormous environmental problems.
china has indicated at the ippc conference and also at the g8 summit that it wants to pursue climate goals.
here, our offer can be that we support carbon-free coal plants with our technology, that we clearly go to the chinese, but in return demand that our patent rights be respected.
we have to make it clear to china that if they want to take their environment to the forefront, if they want to organize an efficient energy supply - there is enough money on the chinese side, that is not the problem - then they really have to open up their public procurement market for our products.
do something for the environment and energy security, for the safety of the coal mines!
but we will prepare for this new cycle by maintaining the balance between the three components of that agenda, the economic component, the social component and the environmental component.
the next six months will also be particularly important for energy and environmental policy options, and in this respect europe can have only one objective: to maintain its leadership in the environmental field and, in particular, in the fight against climate change.
we will immediately pursue the objectives of promoting the debate on a technological action plan for energy and the environment and will stress the role of biofuels, particularly in the context of the relationship resulting from the first summit between the european union and brazil.
ten years after the launch of the 'european employment strategy', we believe it is essential to promote debate on the best ways of coordinating employment policies in order to foster the creation of sustainable jobs in a globally competitive environment.
the european social model, in its acknowledged diversity, requires joint reflection on the sustainability of pension systems and the identification of the necessary reforms in labour markets and in systems of protection against social risks.
we therefore accept the need to define a new strategic partnership between the european union and africa, with a view to the objectives of sustainable development, peace-keeping, the fight against endemic diseases and a balanced partnership for the management of migration flows in a mutually beneficial way.
if we have more economic growth - and we do, we have more jobs, the reforms are working, and in my country, thanks to the gerhard schröder government, they are working now - if we have more jobs, then we need one thing above all: that growth is sustainable and that it brings lasting social security.
if we are looking for a subject - mr president of the council, you have said it correctly - which forces us to act together, all 27, and where we have enormous popular support, it is climate protection.
when i speak of climate protection, mr prime minister, i am grateful to you for your strategy for africa and latin america, because without africa and latin america, we cannot achieve this climate protection.
and the bitter thing about africa is that it is the continent that is suffering the most from global warming, even though it is the continent that is contributing the least to global warming.
i am also pleased that you are following the presidency's thinking that, in order to obtain a treaty, we must also take advantage of the present political moment, the present political climate, the present political convergence in order to translate the mandate into the treaty as quickly as possible.
and we shall see, but i very much hope that this summit may have contributed to creating a better climate for political dialogue between europe and brazil so that the doha round and the negotiations for a world trade agreement can proceed.
two more remarks, one of them on climate change and the environment, just to say this: i was once the minister of the environment, i was once the president of the council as minister of the environment, and i remember how difficult it was back then, in 2000, to talk about climate change.
today the situation is absolutely different, and i think everyone has realized today that the operational synthesis between innovation and energy is called climate change.
i myself, if i have an agenda for this, but i intend to do so, will be present in bali, representing the european union, to make a speech there expressing the will of the european union to lead the post-kyoto framework and the framework for the world's response to climate change.
but i also want to make it clear that we have an internal agenda to fulfil and that agenda is the energy technology plan, which we will be pursuing with the commission, and the creation of the european institute of technology, which, with our firm support, will also launch its first kic (knowledge innovation community).
and this first initiative is directed precisely, and even symbolically, to the subject of climate change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you once again for your comments and say to you in conclusion: we have our plan, we are going into these six months with the confidence, the energy and the will of those political leaders who, throughout their political life, have always believed in the european project.
in recent years, and cooperation between the different institutions has been important in this respect, we have been able to overcome difficult issues, we have approved a budget for the next seven years, we have reached a difficult consensus on a very divisive issue, the services directive, we have been able to approve at the european council in march the most ambitious package of measures to date on combating climate change, the renewed lisbon strategy has borne fruit, thanks in fact to a new system of governance, and the truth is that europe is currently experiencing a good time overall, we have economic growth that is giving us new reasons for hope, we are creating more jobs now than our north american partners, the eurobarometer results confirm that we have the highest level of confidence in europe over the last eight years, so it is a better time.
they ask us how europeans can want to lead the world in the fight against climate change, how europeans can guarantee energy security, how europeans can want to make their economy the most competitive, cohesive and fair in the world, when they are not even able to decide among themselves how the institutions are to function and how decisions are to be taken?!
apart from the immigration issues which are, as has been said, essential from a human point of view, there are human dramas which we must face, the innovation agenda, which the prime minister has just had the opportunity to support so clearly and unequivocally with regard to the creation of a european institute of technology, with regard to the launching of the first knowledge community, innovation precisely aimed at the issue of climate change, and everything we can do to give a new impetus to the innovation agenda.
in addition, pricing power in market segments with low competition may increase in such an environment.
a timely and sustainable resolution that lays the foundations for a democratic and multiethnic kosovo, committed to the establishment of a state governed by the rule of law and promoting regional stability and the european perspective of the region.
the status quo is not sustainable.
the security council members need to carry their responsibility for resolving kosovo’s status and set up a multilateral framework giving the whole region a sustainable outcome.
you took the view that the only sustainable settlement is one that respects all communities, helps kosovo’s economic recovery and provides an international presence to safeguard the interests of all ethnic communities.
we have much at stake to achieve a sustainable settlement.
a sustainable settlement is indeed best achieved by a managed and multilateral process.
this is the time, therefore, when europe, the eu and its member states, must show leadership and help bring a sustainable solution to kosovo.
it is foreseen that this strategic dialogue that we are going to establish with brazil will include all issues, economic, trade, energy and climate change issues.
we should also pay heed to lowering energy consumption through renewable energies, which will provide a solid basis for the sustainable future of the relevant countries.
but also, much of what we've seen in the last few years is a consequence of climate change, and so we're going to have to be prepared for a lot more than what we're seeing now.
so a re-engineering of climate policy is also a major contribution to getting a better handle on what we've seen in greece and elsewhere.
in times of climate change, the rejection of regional policy has just as dramatic consequences for nature.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i also warn the commission against changing the rules of the structural funds regulation at the expense of the sustainability and partnership principle which are embedded in it.
what about the waste policy?
we believe that the statements on energy policy are problematic.
apart from the fact that the question of the separation of networks and services in the consumer's mind is a very central element which is not dealt with here, we regret that nuclear energy plays such a major role.
nuclear energy completely ignores the fact that there are many unresolved safety issues - as the accidents in miles of germany and sweden this year have shown - that the disposal problem remains unresolved and that subsidiarity is also still an issue.
the member states have decided to withdraw from nuclear energy, and i therefore do not think it is right for the european union to intervene by providing financial support.
the country's ambitions include successfully concluding the intergovernmental conference with the adoption of a reform treaty, strengthening its foreign and security policy, in particular by deepening relations with latin america, africa and the mediterranean, taking further action on climate change and making the lisbon strategy a success.
more than ever, we must concentrate our collective energy and determination on what is truly essential to make europe stronger and more cohesive.
with the treaty's negotiating chapter closed, the european union should focus with greater consistency and renewed confidence on the challenges that concern european citizens: economic growth, employment, security, the environment, energy, globalisation.
the three strands of sustainable development are well known: social, economic and environmental.
today i am even more convinced of the need to meet this challenge through flexible and innovative solutions: greater accountability of non-governmental organisations and citizens in general, greater coordination between state action and civil society initiatives, recognition that income redistribution policies do not dispense with, but rather require, the creation of more and better opportunities for all to share in the designs of wealth creation, personal fulfillment and sustainable progress.
their effectiveness and sustainability are increasingly in question.
the lisbon strategy's stated objective of raising employment rates in the union to a 70% threshold is a social imperative that should be borne in mind, even if it seems difficult to achieve by 2010. another way we can protect citizens is to help them to qualify, to help empower them through education and training to meet new technological, environmental and cultural challenges.
first, energy and the environment.
energy and the environment are vital common interests and should be seen as new drivers of european integration.
the success of energy and environmental policies is what economic efficiency, safety and quality of life in the european union depend on.
i believe that it is crucial for the very sustainability of the european integration process to ensure that europe is a central and influential player in the emerging global, multilateral and multipolar world.
i am sure that here in this house there will be the vision, the will and the energy to carry forward this admirable project of uniting the peoples of europe ever more closely and of affirming europe in the world.
the current challenge - and one that is being felt quite acutely in some regions - of climate change must be met by the development of renewable energy sources and a more efficient and socially responsible use of natural resources.
this has a positive impact on working conditions on board, on transport safety and on the protection of the environment.
it is true, mr savary, that the achievement of the single european sky is not progressing fast enough, given the importance of the objectives: competitiveness, sustainable development, the fight against climate change and aviation safety.
member states have not fulfilled the obligation to rapidly establish functional airspace blocks, which has been in place since 2004. on the one hand, this leads to the costs you mentioned of up to eur 3 billion, but it also leads to environmental damage.
we are discussing the introduction of emissions trading in aviation, and we are talking about 3% of aviation emissions.
if we had a sensible, fast and efficient air traffic management, we could reduce fuel consumption by up to 12%, and thus achieve a substantial reduction in co2 emissions.
if the member states are unable to make progress on a really essential issue of aviation safety, aviation efficiency, the climate impact of aviation, then we expect you to not only report in 2008 that the member states are improving in creating airspace blocks, but that you are threatening the member states.
we know the queues and the congestion in the sky and we have a much greater emphasis on emissions recently.
i am very disappointed by the announcements made by the speakers of the two large groups, which obviously do not follow the vote of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, whose core concern is to put forward warnings and also bans on advertising.
milk is the oldest energy drink in the world, a very important product, and it's good that we're debating it today.
the increase in prices is partly due to the fact that the environment is not as bad as it used to be.
member states will continue to be able to regulate or even refuse to regulate the national transport of certain dangerous goods, for reasons of national security or environmental protection, for example.
as a result, citizens can expect this directive to contribute to improving both road safety and environmental safety.
finally, transport logistics is one of the key factors for economic growth, competitiveness and quality of life in europe, and it serves to reduce environmental impact.
this includes consideration of safety, environmental, transport and logistics aspects.
for example, rules on the use of driver assistance systems such as emergency braking and lane keeping assistants, cruise controls with distance control, camera monitoring of the environment, or rules on steerable axles and the distribution of driving forces on several wheels.
it should also be borne in mind that the longliners, with a total weight of 44 tonnes, are the ones that relieve the road, bring enormous benefits to the economy, traffic and the environment, and do not harm the railway, which cannot even cope with the increase in demand for transport capacity.
the commission takes the view that, of all human rights instruments at our disposal, it is the dialogues that probably provide the best chance to secure positive, long-term results in the development of the respect for human rights worldwide, as long as we are prepared to invest sufficient time and energy in them.
and that's why it's important that our human rights work is systematic and sustainable, and that it avoids certain mistakes.
the vote will take place on thursday, 6 september 2007. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mrs carmen fraga estévez, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on achieving sustainability in the eu fisheries sector through the concept of maximum sustainable yield (2006/2224 (ini)) (a6-0298/2007).
the committee of the regions expressly welcomes the commission's roadmap for renewable energy sources as an important contribution to the sustainable development of europe.
the development of renewable energy sources is necessary.
europe must secure its energy supply and reduce its dependence on foreign imports.
on the other hand, we must meet our climate commitments.
bioenergy will also be central to employment and the economy in europe's rural areas in the energy mix of the future.
the area-freeze scheme no longer fits into the system and should be abolished, also because of the shortage of land due to competition between food production and renewable raw materials.
at the same time, biofuels imported from third countries should also be certified according to strict ecological criteria in order to ensure a positive environmental impact.
they know that in implementing the spring summit decisions - to achieve 20% renewable energy by 2020 - the commission is currently preparing the framework directive.
i am glad that the report makes it very clear that this is only about renewable energy and not about low-carbon energy.
i also thank commissioner piebalgs once again for clarifying that this is really about renewable energy.
the european council, chaired by our chancellor angela merkel, decided in march 2007 that 20% of total energy consumption should come from renewable energy sources by 2020. the benefits are clear: lower co2 emissions, less dependence on energy imports from unstable states, opportunities for growth and employment, especially in rural areas.
if we want to achieve a 20% share of renewable energy in total energy consumption, each member state must do its part.
however, as mentioned in paragraph 9 of the report, each member state must be free to choose the renewable energy sources most appropriate to its circumstances in each sector.
improving energy efficiency is also crucial.
we can only achieve 20% renewable energy if we improve energy efficiency overall.
the potential is enormous, and many innovative technologies are already on the market, particularly in the field of building insulation and energy-saving electrical appliances.
the use of renewable energy for heating and cooling also needs to be promoted much more than before.
40% of all energy in the eu is used in buildings.
there is a huge potential for the use of renewable energy.
modern building planning and energy-oriented new housing developments can help to ensure that renewable energies can meet the entire energy demand in buildings.
biomass is also a renewable energy source which needs to be further developed because of its versatility and its basic load capacity.
however, it must be ensured that biomass production is sustainable and does not compete with food production.
this requires the development of internationally recognised sustainability standards for the cultivation of biomass, as required in paragraph 57 of the report.
the overall climate and energy balance of biomass production must also be positive.
it is also important to consider the contribution of nuclear energy to climate protection.
we cannot do without nuclear energy as a low-emission technology at the moment.
research into renewable energy sources must also be given high priority in the eu.
technological developments in this area are a crucial step towards a sustainable energy supply.
in particular, the further development of energy storage from renewable energy sources, such as hydrogen technology, needs to be further promoted and advanced.
i think it is important to remember that we must look at energy policy in terms of different objectives, namely: how do we get security of supply, how do we get environmentally friendly design, and how do we also get low prices?
if we take these three factors into account in each of these debates, it will be fairly quickly apparent that renewables are certainly part of the future of energy and play a role, probably an important role, but that this sector alone will not be able to solve the problem of energy supply, neither of pricing nor of environmental trends nor of security of supply.
it is therefore important to ask the questions which have already been raised in various contributions today, such as how we can make the most economic use of renewable energy sources.
we must think about where the euro can be used most effectively and we must not promote solar energy where there are no favourable conditions.
it is part of the process of identifying the disadvantages of renewable energy sources.
this does not mean saying no to renewable energy, but it does mean a differentiated debate and a differentiated response, because it is wise in the end not to have policies that create false expectations that cannot be met, but rather to have policies that create expectations that can then be eliminated step by step.
and here i join, so to speak, the debate we have just had: we have a chance to reduce the environmental impact within the european union.
this is important in the face of the climate problem.
the commission has not taken up the diversification requested by parliament to ensure the socio-ecological development of the regions.
but of course, trust will only grow and fair competition can only come about if producers, and here in particular the chinese state, ensure that to the same extent as we have environmental, social and labour standards, these are also gradually introduced on the chinese side, otherwise we have the conditions of unfair competition.
at present, there is no possibility of returning to this punishment, but i am counting on a more favourable climate in the eu in the future.
and he hopes that there will be a better climate in the european union to reintroduce it!
that is why i say: this parliament is here to ensure that the climate in europe remains against the death penalty!
cooperation must not be limited to sharing market shares and access to energy and water or to sharing patents on intellectual property.
we also welcome the fact that brazil has agreed to discuss the problem of the destruction of the amazon rainforest, which is essential for stabilizing the climate.
the european union should not stand by passively, but should take action and strengthen and develop these approaches, which are fully in line with our own objectives of cooperation and environmental protection.
this is a great idea, to promote mobility and at the same time take measures to prevent accidents and environmental pollution.
we have an overload in the inner cities, mainly due to individual traffic, with the consequences of excessive emissions, fine dust, noise and also safety problems.
i would very much like the new member states, particularly romania and bulgaria, to make the best use of the cohesion fund and it is true that we must, as far as possible, give priority to rail transport, which will then save us major problems in terms of environmental requirements and the risk of congestion on european motorways.
it is available on the internet site of the directorate-general for transport and energy.
i agree with the rapporteur, mr saryusz-wolski, on the problems of import dependence and the growing dependence on imports of energy raw materials, and i disagree with him on this point.
i do not agree with the solutions proposed in this report, however, and i believe that important strategic objectives of internal, internal european energy policy should have been reflected in this report.
in my view, the most important instrument for reducing this growing dependence on imports is the reduction of energy consumption in all areas, and i also believe that the 20% energy efficiency increase europe has committed itself to by 2020 must be a target that must be incorporated into the strategic energy external policy.
if we realise that in russia the amount of gas unnecessarily consumed in the building sector alone is equal to the amount of gas exported by russia to the european union, then it is clear how much we can gain if we implement our efficiency strategies at home and make russia a viable option in an energy strategy of the european union that is also oriented towards the outside.
this means that we can also influence russia's internal energy policy by example.
it is clearly stated that there is no contractual basis for this external energy policy.
the initiative is being taken - this was also heard in the speeches, but more clearly than in the report itself - because of russia's energy policy.
it is an anti-russian report - this is expressed differently in different places - and it is a report which clearly states that the european union wants to be a global player and that energy foreign policy is a means to that end.
in total, the countries covered are: turkey is almost exclusively seen as a transit hub for energy supply.
it says: 'in particular, it underlines the importance of enhancing energy dialogue with the us and other key partners in the energy sector who share the eu's values.'
i would remind you that the united states is at war in iraq with a number of allies, including on energy issues.
it is clearly stated that the g8 is intended to represent the energy interests of the various eu member states involved and links are made with the military component.
the first aspect concerns the bilateral energy agreements.
so as long as it doesn't exist, it must be possible to find other ways to talk about energy.
secondly, combine the energy charter with russia's membership of the wto.
the link between ratification of the energy charter and accession to the wto is a setback.
the report by the rapporteur on the common energy policy is a burden on russia, but that is the situation today.
we are asking you in an amendment not only to look at what you are planning to do in 2008, but also to tell us in parliament how the consequences should be designed in the interests of environmental protection.
the report advocates a ‘common european foreign policy on energy’.
instead of solving the problem of expensive and polluting energy, the report wants to shape the eu as a hegemonic, global actor.
by the inclusion of a so-called ‘energy security clause’ in all agreements with producer and transit countries the eu will define its interest far beyond its borders.
we are concerned about the foundation of an eu energy foreign policy that would be founded on geopolitical pressure, a background of military threat.
the report calls for a close partnership with the usa on energy security, being aware that the usa is waging war in iraq to secure cheap energy resources.
it touches every citizen in one way or another: the goods and services we buy, the television we watch, the energy we use and the work we do.
that means a level playing field; it means ensuring that openness is a two-way street; it means making clear that we will not water down our high standards of health, safety, environmental and consumer protection.
our growth will have to be sustainable.
we have set ambitious targets for cutting greenhouse gas emissions and using renewable energy sources, and we will meet them.
to the capacity of an enlarged union, and to greater capacity to deal with the new challenges we face in this world, from energy security to terrorism, foreign and security policy as a whole, globalisation, organised crime to climate change and many more.
this has been achieved by the fact that we have improved decision-making powers in the council, that new responsibilities have been added in the field of energy security and that in the field of justice and home affairs, which my colleague will discuss in a moment, we have the dismantling of the third pillar, and here the european parliament - and this is the second gain - becomes more equal in its co-decision on these questions, so that in future, with this treaty, in 95 per cent of the cases of legislation, the european parliament will have equal co-decision rights, also in the field of agricultural policy and the budget as a whole.
this is a further consequence of the deterioration of the political climate in europe in our own country.
i should like to apologize to the rapporteur of the green paper on the marine environment, mr willi piecyk.
i would like to commend the work of the environment committee on the landing of the vessels.
the green paper on maritime policy also mentions the inclusion of ships in the emissions trading system.
we are in the first reading on the inclusion of air transport in the emissions trading scheme.
the ep is also calling for the commission to be given the right to adopt a new directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission's proposal to introduce a modulation in the second pillar, because the money is being spent more on labour and the environment, is a precursor to what we are now expecting, namely the discussion after this publication.
we must call on the administration and also on our commission to use the possibilities of this agreement, for example to agree on a more sustainable one-stop security.
in parallel, the committee should also push for the inclusion of flights from the usa in the emissions trading system, because we know that we did not achieve much at the icao meeting, as you mentioned.
in order to maintain the same level of professionalism at all airports, the european parliament decided in 1996 that, in addition to airport operators, only those service providers would be allowed to operate which guarantee good work in a sustainable manner.
that is why we have agreed on emissions trading in aviation.
we have different timing and different methods, mrs lichtenberger, but in principle we agree that the aviation sector must play its part in reducing the environmental impact.
if airplanes didn't have to stand on the ground for long before they could take off, if they didn't have to fly in airspace for long queues, what do you think we could save for the environment?
i have supported the report by mr raúl romeva i rueda because it clearly identifies the main causes of the murder of women in mexico and central america: the murders are taking place unhindered in a socio-economic environment that is biased towards economic interests.
the 'creation of an environment favourable to trade and investment' called for by the commission (8.12.2005) leads to precisely those structures which the report rightly identifies as the unfavourable socioeconomic conditions for the high number of murders of women.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the rapporteurs, mrs belohorská and mrs klaß, for their extremely diligent work and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, as well as mr ebner and the committee on agriculture and rural development and mrs corbey and the committee on industry, research and energy for their reports and the opinion they delivered at the first reading.
over the last thirty years, european union policies and laws to protect public health and the environment have enabled us to make significant progress and to reduce the risks of pesticide use considerably.
and yet this is the critical stage, which creates the greatest risks to human health and the environment.
monitoring programmes in the member states show that pesticide residues are found in food and feed and in the environment at concentrations exceeding the limit values laid down in european legislation.
we must therefore intensify our efforts to better protect european citizens and our environment.
it is in this context, namely to address the risks posed by the use of pesticides to human health and the environment, that the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides and the accompanying framework directive fit in.
in conclusion, mr president, i would like to stress one important aspect of the proposed directive on the sustainable use of pesticides.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is properly implemented.
it was and is a difficult issue because a balance must be struck between increasing the protection of health and the environment and simplifying procedures and reducing the administrative burden in order to be able to strengthen competitiveness and innovation.
at the same time, it complements the internal market through the system of mutual recognition of zones, but with flexibility, allowing member states to take measures and adopt restrictions in cases where there are specific risks, specific threats either to health or to the environment, in the whole member state or in specific areas thereof.
i wish we didn't need them, because they certainly have an impact on human health, animal health and the environment.
the first priority is undoubtedly to achieve the highest possible level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
the repeal of animal experiments will be permanently banned and, in the context of promoting sustainable agriculture, safer alternatives will replace the most dangerous products.
the proposal will thus create a safer framework for the use of plant protection products in the european union and will strengthen environmental protection measures.
the proposal reflects the lisbon strategy because it will at the same time reduce the administrative burden - the procedure will be shorter and more efficient - without, however, and i stress this, compromising on the levels of safety and environmental health protection.
it complements and is compatible with the proposal for a directive on the sustainable use of pesticides, as my colleague mr deimas has already analysed it.
i welcome the commission's proposal for a framework for action on the sustainable use of plant protection products and i shall speak here today only about this part of the whole package.
this is a wide area where much still needs to be adapted across europe for the benefit of consumers and users and, in particular, for the environment.
climate change has changed the conditions for agriculture: new pests are appearing, natural disasters are causing crop failures.
member states must ensure the sustainable use of plant protection products through national action plans.
the same applies to the protection of the aquatic environment.
the consumer will buy the cheaper third country product, and this will do a disservice to the idea of sustainability.
the commission is not i would like to say to the honourable member that there was no unanimous vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, that we were of the opposite opinion here and that the majority of my group opposed this.
i am pleased to present a report which will provide parliament with a blueprint for greater health, environmental and consumer protection when it votes on it tomorrow.
they should be authorised for no more than five years, as proposed by the eu environment committee.
i am therefore pleased that the committee on the environment and health has proposed that the authorisation of active substances and their risk assessment should be targeted at sensitive groups in society.
this is a very important step towards greater transparency, because a study carried out by environmental ngos in the parliament's supermarket has shown how risky everyday products can be.
but we also want to ensure a high environmental standard with the regulation.
the committee on the environment has therefore spoken out against the division of europe into three zones which do not meet any ecological, climatic or spatial criteria but are arbitrary.
i hope that this regulation will also make a decisive improvement in the european economic area, because it will then be a consumer area from which everyone will benefit - not just the environment, consumers, animal welfare, but above all industry and farmers, because they will have more incentives for innovation and for more competition.
i hope that with this new regulation on pesticides we will be setting new standards for health and environmental protection in europe.
it is important that we strike a balance between the following interests in the proposal for a regulation: the first is the consumer's interest in healthy food without residues, that is to say, in safe plant protection products which do not pose a danger to health and the environment, and also the consumer's interest in clean drinking water.
i therefore strongly oppose the proposal from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety which would lead to this.
first of all, i welcome the support of the report for the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides and in particular the proposal for new legislation to address the risks of the use stage of pesticides.
finally, the belohorská report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety proposes some additional measures which are particularly positive.
the commission can accept in principle the introduction of a minimum width for the buffer zones to be established in fields adjacent to watercourses, as this would bring additional environmental benefits.
it will bring significant environmental benefits throughout the european union and contribute to the development of a sustainable and competitive agricultural sector.
we must leave some room for manoeuvre for member states and local authorities to deal, if ever necessary and in exceptional and rare cases, with risks to public health or biodiversity which can only be addressed by the use of pesticides.
fourthly, the commission cannot support the addition of a reference to article 152 (4) of the treaty, since the proposed directive clearly focuses on environmental protection, which already includes public health issues.
the main objective of the proposal is precisely the protection of public health and the environment, which is fundamental and must not be forgotten.
first of all, let me remind you that the new proposal will introduce stricter criteria, which will apply within the zones - let us not forget this - and therefore higher levels of protection of health and the environment.
we also take account of the specificities of the climate and the terrain, and that is why we have set up zones.
written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr chris davies, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (a6-0343/2007).
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
i am therefore somewhat surprised, mr davies, that you have made it clear today, with your amendments - which i have only known about today, perhaps they have been around for a long time - that you are no longer interested in putting any real pressure on the innovative capacity and the innovative power of the automobile industry in europe, contrary to what has been decided in the committee on the environment.
in my view, the only way to achieve europe's climate goals is to have the strict limit values - as originally proposed by the commission.
i am firmly convinced that in the very near future only efficient, climate-friendly, affordable cars will be on sale, cars which are still classy, and those who today, by setting really harmless time limits for the limit values, mr davies, take the pressure off innovation, will be responsible for this if the european car industry is not competitive in the long term and if the car industry in europe loses jobs.
it is quite clear that the world car market - at least if we believe our climate policy and our un climate policy - will change completely, and those who are on the brakes today on the limits are responsible for the fact that the automotive industry in europe is going down the drain and we are not taking our climate policy seriously at all.
when it comes to co2 emissions, we like to talk very quickly about cars, because the way to our people's bad environmental conscience is through the car.
that is why mrs harms, the greens and many environmental organizations in particular are very happy to talk about this subject.
this own-initiative report should send a signal to the commission that the european parliament is serious about reducing co2 emissions from cars.
the car industry committed itself in 1998 to reducing the co2 emissions of its new cars.
i see no reason why we should shake the timing and the threshold, given the news about the progress of climate change.
secondly, future legislation must make it clear that co2 emissions must be reduced in all vehicle categories.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the guideline for future legislation on co2 emissions from passenger cars should be to ensure greater climate protection and affordability of car driving.
the starting point - and this is undeniable and is brought up in every debate on energy policy - was that both the commission and parliament believe that energy policy has something to do with three major objectives, namely competitiveness, i.e.
good prices, environmental compatibility and security of supply.
the part that the solution in the energy sector therefore lies in a continuous development of technology, in new technologies, was certainly the easiest.
so in a world where the demand for energy is growing, but the supply of fossil fuels is shrinking, it's important that we invest in research and innovation and try to move forward in these places.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
coal is a major factor, and it plays an important role in this, because it is, of course, one of the few sources of energy, or the only source of energy, that we have in europe, although the availability of such sources varies from one member state to another.
this is a major advantage, especially in the field of energy security.
a critical issue is co2 emissions.
we have also made our views known in this report and said: yes, we want to develop this technology because it is the opportunity to have coal - a very reliable energy source for us - in europe in the future.
the third and most controversial part is the question of nuclear energy: over 30% share in europe, with advantages that cannot be denied, no matter what political position one holds.
it is there, it is cheap, it has a high level of security of supply, it is highly exciting, highly interesting in terms of co2 emissions, and i think it would be reckless if we simply pushed this type of energy aside and did not take it into account at all.
it is therefore a wise move to set up the high level group and the nuclear energy forum, and it is certainly right, as the pinc paper has suggested, to take this debate forward and not to let ourselves be cut off from something that is a potential opportunity when it comes to investing in new technologies.
the 'mix' is not about excluding one type of energy, but about taking all of them into account.
the report did not allow for any critical reflection on nuclear energy.
the difficulties in financing the disposal of waste are not an issue.
the people who sing the praises of nuclear energy must not let this scandal go unnoticed.
in all the necessary measures for climate protection and renewable energy, it is of the utmost importance that parliament should deal with the future of conventional energy sources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the environment.
because renewable energy sources will not be able to grow as fast as we all want.
we are threatened by foreign dependence and the arbitrariness of our energy suppliers.
the only way to avoid this in the future is to have a strategic energy mix, including coal and nuclear power.
and consumption taxes are rising more and more - on the one hand, because of so-called eco-taxes, which often, for lack of choice, have no environmental incentive at all, but simply drain households to the bone, and on the other hand, because vat rates are rising more and more and are approaching each other in more and more countries at the upper end of the agreed corridor.
we also find it problematic that far too little is said on the topics of climate change and green taxes.
i believe that green taxes are an important tool to address precisely these climate change challenges.
i think it is a mistake to rely on nuclear energy or so-called clean energy.
it is important that we clearly set our focus on energy saving and energy efficiency.
and if you look at the challenges we face in the areas of building renovation and transportation, it turns out that we can actually meet the kyoto approach of saving energy if we do a lot more here.
tax policy can play a major role in helping us to achieve greater energy savings, greater energy efficiency, and truly meet the challenges of climate change.
the debate focused in particular on financial markets in the light of recent turmoil and climate change in the run-up to the bali conference.
and of the various conclusions i was able to draw from the debate, i would like to emphasize one: the idea that was present in the debate on friday morning, that europe has all the conditions - and even the duty in various matters - to lead the process of globalisation, whether in the reciprocal opening of markets, or in improving environmental, social, financial and intellectual property standards, as well as in strengthening strategic cooperation with our international partners.
i, for my part, just want to assure you that the presidency will continue to work with the same commitment, the same energy and the same conviction with which it was here in the first hour and to work for a stronger europe and a better world.
we have many tasks ahead: economic reform, growth and jobs, the reinforcement of social cohesion, our focus on innovation, our proposals on energy and climate change, and our programme for justice, freedom and security.
the last polls show the highest support for the european union since 1994. the political climate is right to move ahead.
many of these countries know that if climate change continues at this rate and sea levels rise, they will be gone in the foreseeable future.
climate change is not a theoretical issue, but a practical one, requiring immediate action by the european union.
all the energy should be directed towards ratification so that we have this treaty by 2009.
i would also like to thank you for your report on the distribution of seats, and also adrien severin.
as i said, it is by delivering results to european citizens that we can help to create the right political environment to facilitate ratification.
we should also, in communication terms, make clear our reinforced capacity to act on behalf of the citizens in areas relevant to their concerns, like climate protection, energy and migration.
the outcome of the report on the sustainable use of plant protection products can be used as a basis for further work.
only the expert and knowledgeable use of plant protection products ensures sustainability.
and i think that, also, in terms of climate policy, we need to show the world that climate policy, in its right way, and selective growth go hand in hand.
europe must take a big step forward, because only if we can convince the other continents and big countries like china and india and the united states that we can shape climate policy and create new jobs will we win the hearts of the citizens.
that means we have to provide people with education, and we have to make sure that they are healthy so that they can develop in their own environment, in their own home.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the committee on the environment has in its field brought back the budget figures cut down by the council to the sums of the commission's preliminary draft budget.
this represents an increase of 10.3% on the 2007 budget for the environment.
we also think that this is quite appropriate for the most important instruments in the environmental field.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
the committee on budgets recommends to the plenary at first reading a budget for 2008 of eur 129.6 billion for commitments and eur 124.2 billion for payments, in strict compliance with all our agreements and commitments, both in the multiannual programmes and in the financial perspective, and i would add, far below the ceilings we have agreed in this multiannual programming, in the sense of budgetary discipline and at the same time linked to an offer to the council to resolve current issues such as galileo and the financing of foreign and security policy in a sustainable way.
the second possibility is that if others do not participate, we will not participate, and we will not be able to achieve the climate goals we set ourselves.
it is the case that there are discussions going on within the commission in the review of the emissions trading scheme (ets) and in the examination of the position, particularly, of energy-intensive industries under that scheme.
the latter is fully taken into account in our common efforts to design an improved ets, and the position of those industries will certainly be considered in the context of any international agreement that is negotiated and the implications for european industries, particularly energy-intensive ones, if we do not create the level playing field that we are seeking through negotiation.
the report also calls for policies to create an environment in which smoking is no longer considered normal.
instead, we should focus our energy and money on educating people about the negative effects of tobacco use, as tailored to the target group as possible.
it's not just about energy supplies.
let us work together with russia to pursue a sensible energy policy based on new technologies.
it cannot go back to old ideas and use energy as a weapon, which is even less acceptable.
nuclear energy is being presented as a technology of the future, against all reason.
despite the recent 'accidents' at vattenfall nuclear power plants, the focus is still on the expansion of nuclear energy in europe.
instead of continuing to invest in such a problematic energy production, where the question of final storage is deliberately excluded, we must finally strive for a social and ecological change.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
the commission has also been asked to take a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
the only sustainable energy policy is to promote the production of energy from renewable resources, solar, wind and hydroelectric power.
i have to say, madam president, i voted against the davies report because i think that in our decision we have taken an unacceptable and unworldly decision in principle, in the way that we have set uniform limits on co2 emissions from cars.
we have failed to do so, and i regret that, and by this decision - which i did not support - we have missed an opportunity to strike a balance between environmental and industrial interests.
i have to say, madam president, i voted against the davies report because the amendments adopted have left us far behind the optimum of protecting the environment while promoting employment in europe and not burdening consumers excessively with high prices.
we have set time horizons that are difficult or expensive to achieve, and we have committed the absurdity of not accepting the demand for carbon-based taxes in the countries, so that the cars that are high-carbon vehicles can continue to be on the market.
i did not agree with the report by mr davies on a 'community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles'.
this information appears in the parliamentary documents of 25 october 2007. in my opinion, the report is very arbitrary and neither the needs of the automobile industry in germany nor environmental concerns are adequately taken into account.
we know that the eu-25's greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by just under 5% between 1990 and 2004. this does not apply to road transport: on the contrary, there is an increase of 26%.
the automotive industry must also play its part in reducing emissions.
but we must always bear in mind that in the interests of jobs and the competitiveness of the eu, a balance must be struck between environmental interests and those of the automotive industry.
if we had no efficient economy, we would not have the money for environmental protection!
this is not only an expression of our humanitarian commitments, but also a worthwhile investment in sustainable development and human security.
first of all, i would like to express my particular gratitude to the rapporteur, mrs gutiérrez-cortines, who has spent a great deal of energy in the last few months trying to mediate between those who are in favour of a directive and those who are against it, and who has also laid the groundwork for a viable compromise.
we've heard that soil is our most important non-renewable resource.
i know that the rapporteur has fought, but unfortunately the environment committee, under pressure from the conservatives and under pressure from the agricultural lobby, has watered down and degraded it in many, many places.
i cannot understand why we agreed in the environment committee to keep the old charges secret.
we also know that climate change and good soil quality go hand in hand, that soil is a major store of carbon dioxide, and it's losing more and more of that ability to bind co2.
i am afraid that because of this watered-down approach in the environment committee, an ambitious soil protection directive is unfortunately not possible.
the commission is right to say that soil is the key to longterm and sustainable production of food, feed and biomass.
the claim that this is the cause of climate change is unacceptable.
the commission's arguments for cross-border concern are rather artificial, at least from an ecological point of view.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, it is with great pleasure that i open today the debate on the proposal to include aviation in the community's greenhouse gas emission trading system, known as the its.
i thank the rapporteur, mr liese, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for the efforts they have made so far.
it is now widely accepted that climate change is happening now, as well as being caused by human activity.
the measures we take over the next decade will determine whether we manage to bring the situation under control or allow climate change to reach dangerous levels and threaten the prosperity and stability of our societies.
the european union has both the capacity and the means and the will to lead the global effort against climate change.
this is the clear message that we will be sending in a few weeks to bali, where the future international framework on climate change will be discussed.
and when the kyoto protocol was negotiated in the 1990s, aviation - along with shipping - was excluded from the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
on the other hand, the negative impact of aviation on the environment has been demonstrated and confirmed, with the dramatic increase in greenhouse gas emissions as a concrete example.
today, the share of aviation in global greenhouse gas emissions is equivalent to the total emissions of the united kingdom or canada.
in the european union, carbon dioxide emissions from aircraft are almost double the 1990 levels and are forecast to be 150% higher in 2012. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the member states.
this is why the commission proposed in its communication of september 2005 a comprehensive approach to tackling the impact of aviation on climate change.
further action is needed and that is why in december 2006 the commission proposed to include aviation in the community emissions trading system, the proposal we are discussing here today.
as regards the level of ambition, the commission proposal calls for emissions to be stabilised at the average for the period 2004-06. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the airport is not a public airport, but a public airport, and that the airport is not a public airport.
by the year 2020, we will save a total of 183 million tons of carbon dioxide per year, which is equivalent to twice austria's current annual greenhouse gas emissions from all sources.
the european union is now giving top priority to tackling climate change.
the proposal under consideration concerns one of the fastest growing sources of greenhouse gas emissions.
in the last few months, it has become clear to almost everyone that we must do something to prevent dramatic climate change.
the reports of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) and the former chief economist of the world bank, sir nicholas stern, have made it clear that the costs of not acting are far greater than the costs of acting.
stern has even said that if climate change continues unchecked, it could have the same negative economic impact as the two world wars.
it was therefore logical that the summit of heads of state and government in march decided that the european union would reduce its emissions by at least 20% by 2020, and if we reach an international agreement - we want to do that - even by 30%.
it is a paradox, of course, that a major sector of the economy is not reducing emissions at all, but is growing unabated.
since 1990 - the commissioner has said this - emissions from air transport have doubled.
it is therefore good that the commission has put forward a proposal to limit co2 emissions from aviation.
this is necessary for reasons of competitive neutrality, but also because two thirds of co2 emissions come from intercontinental flights and not from intra-european flights.
of course we have to talk to third countries, and that is why the environment committee decided in a motion that the commission should continue to negotiate with third countries.
the environment committee has also decided that we will introduce a multiplier of two to take account of nitrogen oxide emissions.
it is also very important that we get an efficiency clause, which is also what the environment committee has decided.
and i say on behalf of my group - not as rapporteur - that the environment committee has overshot its target in some areas.
we should not stop at formulating general objectives to combat climate change, but should also introduce concrete legislation.
we cannot accept their pioneering role, nor that of the environment committee, which is going even further with the year 2010, because it completely ignores the global dimension of air transport, which is competition between airlines all over the world.
we want to reduce the climate impact of aviation, but we also need to keep an eye on the competitiveness of our airlines, airports and air passengers - especially those from remote areas - and to make prices affordable for them.
the inclusion of aviation in emissions trading is the first legislative procedure following the spring summit, where the heads of state or government agreed on ambitious targets.
we in the european parliament have also put the issue at the top of the political agenda by setting up the standing committee on climate change.
experts and climate scientists have given us the warning signals at the climate committee hearings that we need to start a trend reversal in co2 emissions in the next eight to 10 years.
the emissions must not increase, but the greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced if we are to keep global warming below 2°c.
the implementation date of 1 january 2010, which was voted on in the environment committee, is of key importance.
we need 2010 as the launch date because we have no time to fight climate change and the climate change deadline is very long and getting longer as time goes on.
in addition to the time component, the maximum number of pollution certificates to be issued is of great importance.
the cap on aviation emissions of 80% for the years 2004 to 2006 is a good and fair approach.
this cap is necessary to ensure that the 87 per cent increase in aviation emissions between 1990 and 2004 does not undermine the reductions in other industries.
in order to ensure that allowances are priced fairly and that the emissions trading scheme can therefore have its effect, the proportion of allowances to be auctioned needs to be significantly increased compared to the commission proposal.
the spe group therefore proposes to increase the proportion of allowances to be auctioned to 25% of the total number of pollution allowances to be issued.
as regards the revenue from the auctioning of allowances, member states should use it for climate change adaptation and climate change mitigation measures, both within and outside the european union.
it cannot be in our interest that we should leave the business jets out of the emissions trading system and place the leisure aircraft fully within the emissions trading system.
i wish we could take more action on climate change tomorrow, and i hope we can get it started tomorrow.
in addition to investing in new technologies and developing infrastructure, emissions trading can make an important contribution to reducing co2 emissions from aviation.
emissions trading must allow growth, not prevent it.
the liberals are calling for the inclusion of all airlines on a single date from 2011. we believe that the emissions for the years 2004 to 2006 should serve as a basis.
the profit from the auction should be used primarily by the aviation sector to reduce emissions.
the limitation of the use of credit does not make ecological sense.
just as every gram of co2 emitted must be treated equally, so reducing emissions everywhere has the same effect.
there are good economic reasons for unrestricted and flexible access to credits when emissions can be reduced elsewhere at lower cost.
the eu is taking a unilateral decision to include aviation in the emissions trading scheme, and is not just making friends internationally.
if we europeans want to be leaders in climate policy, we must ask not only how far we can go, but also how we can bring others along.
ladies and gentlemen, it is time to move away from the eu's isolationist approach to climate policy.
the aim is to reduce the anthropogenic greenhouse effect by using this transport mode.
politics is often about symbols, and so we are sending a clear message here: this is the first legislative initiative after the spring summit, and we are beginning to actively implement climate action.
the seven key points of the report - the start of emissions trading, the reference period, the number of permits, the use of revenues, the exemptions for small aircraft and the method of calculations - are, in my view, adequately and reliably assessed in the compromises.
i hope that the eu will continue to lead on climate protection and that we can get all the other major competitors and their airlines to join this agreement.
we are tackling the big issues: from energy to migration, from employment to development aid, namely in africa, and in just a few weeks we have an opportunity to underline our global leadership on the fight against climate change in bali.
to cite just a few of the most visible initiatives, this has meant a series of key actions like the strategic energy review, the recent proposals on labour migration, flexicurity, the wine market, market access.
this is the emissions trading directive, which i have decided to put back one month to january.
it will also give us the time to finalise the consultations needed on how to realise the european union’s agreed targets on greenhouse gas and renewables.
the coming weeks will see proposals on mortgage credit, trade defence instruments and reducing co2 emissions from cars.
we will centre our initiatives in five areas, which are of direct relevance to everyone in europe: growth and jobs, sustainable europe, managing migration, putting the citizens first and europe as a world partner.
just to list some of the key areas: the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, which we agree remains central to our goals of a more prosperous, environmentally responsible and socially inclusive european union; climate change, with this year’s stress on mitigation, complemented by a new approach on adaptation; greening of the transport sector; a small business act for smes (in fact it is a package of measures for smes); legislation to strengthen consumer protection regarding contractual rights and a new consumer scoreboard; better access to justice for citizens; improving the regulatory environment in europe with a strategic review of better regulation.
on waste management, we would accommodate the issues you have raised through the action plan on better implementation of waste legislation, rather than a new initiative at this stage.
europe does not want protectionism, but europe has a duty to ensure its energy independence and food independence.
europe wants to be a leader in the fight against global warming, but europe cannot accept unfair competition from countries that do not impose any environmental constraints on their companies.
there will be other topics: the re-founding of the common agricultural policy, the question of ecological taxation, the question of renewable energy and energy saving, the question of defence.
we don't have time to waste.
i think that the inclusion of aviation in the emissions system is a step forward in the kyoto protocol, and that is right.
emissions trading may not start before 2012. exceptions for small aircraft should be similar to those for cars up to 20 tonnes in order to avoid disproportion.
many of the points in the report by the committee on the environment are simply too broad and leave no room for manoeuvre and no time for implementation for the european economy.
i refer again to the french president: we must think again very carefully about how we are going to organise this emissions trading.
the report's intention to include european aviation in the emissions trading scheme raises a number of questions.
there is no doubt, however, that we have a very basic understanding of the fact that this system is not very successful in terms of emissions trading.
this is the only way to solve the problem of the environment and of competition in the european union.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
i believe we should urge the commission to direct airbus and boeing to develop a forward-looking arrangement that provides a stable environment for both sides to compete and develop state-of-the-art aircraft well into the future.
the environmental and social aspects as well as employment policy must be increasingly integrated.
the commission intends to present proposals over the next three years to reorient economic, social and environmental policies in the european union.
the commission must help us to resolve a contradiction: if we take the cover page, the introduction, the debate in this house today, we are talking about enormous challenges: globalisation, climate change, the debate on international financial markets, the great challenges we are facing in all the member states.
is this an excuse for not taking action in the practical implementation of our social, environmental and economic policies, or is it really a chance to see the reality and to give the people in the countries of the european union answers to their urgent questions and needs?
i want to raise a few more questions: if it is true that our future is the ecological industrial society, why is it so difficult to talk in the commission, with the commission and also in this house about the sensible investment policy we need to be able to master that?
as a non-producible commodity, it is of major importance for biodiversity, as a source of raw materials and also for storing and filtering nutrients and water.
the eu has adopted a large number of soil-related directives and regulations, including the nitrates directive, the water framework directive, the emissions directive and the plant protection directive.
the european union has become the talk of the day - as the presidency of the council has shown again today - to talk about european leadership in international climate action.
when i think back to last march and the summit resolutions to achieve 20 percent co2 reduction, 20 percent efficiency, 20 percent renewable energy by 2020, that sounds like leadership, too.
i am very sorry that we have not been able to negotiate the energy package with the member states to the extent that we can support the decisions taken at the bali summit in brussels.
if the third countries with whom we are going to negotiate in bali look behind the scenes in europe and see how difficult it is to negotiate with the member states on energy efficiency and renewable energy, they will see that this is a mourning game.
the problem is that we do not yet have the political courage to actually initiate the paradigm shift in energy policy, in resource policy, which was discussed last march.
i must say that when the reul report was adopted in the last plenary session, i was appalled to see that once again only coal and nuclear energy were mentioned as the answer, and i am ashamed that europeans are now offering african countries nuclear energy as a solution to the climate problem.
we look forward to discussing with you in bali the way europe wants to go about climate policy.
i think it's a shared challenge to do climate policy.
this is not just something for dreamy environmentalists, this is not just something for liberal merchants, but we all have to take up this challenge together, and the climate committee is on its way to doing that.
a bali gap - that would be a kyoto gap - would be a disaster, not only for the environment, but also for economic policy, because without solid data, they cannot invest.
but i also believe that, precisely because we have to lead by example, we will also achieve that we get a european environmental foreign policy that also affects why we actually have these huge fires all over the world that produce more co2 than all the european power plants combined.
i see climate change as nothing more than a huge economic opportunity.
at the spring summit, the heads of state and government made good decisions on combating climate change.
the decision of the heads of state or government provides for a 20% reduction in greenhouse gases in europe by 2020 compared to 1990. the spring summit also agreed to raise the reduction target to 30% if other industrialised nations commit to reducing greenhouse gases.
in europe alone, transport is responsible for 21% of greenhouse gases.
there is a big climate problem.
i therefore regret that we have not been prepared to accept different views on the causes of climate change.
it is not possible to establish a taboo and say: the subject of coal and development or the subject of nuclear energy must not be discussed at all, but the only answer is renewable energy.
and that has to be brought together if we want to fight climate change, if we want to mitigate the consequences.
i hope that we will have a chance to make a more nuanced argument when the next comprehensive report by the committee on climate change is presented.
a constructive political climate must be established and maintained so that the country can focus on the reforms needed to move forward on its path towards the union.
russia has clearly indicated and said that from 1 january 2008 energy prices will increase by 10%.
today the challenge that science puts on our table, as a challenge and as an opportunity, is climate change and energy sources.
it is true, but it is no less true that in 2006, that is to say one year after the government i preside took office, greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by 4% with a 4% growth in the economy.
we are therefore engaged in a very intense and certainly long-term action in all areas relating, firstly, to alternative and renewable energy sources and, secondly, to what energy saving and energy efficiency mean.
the new economy that will lead the future of productive capacity and therefore of their well-being will be the economy that is able to move as quickly as possible to a less dependent coal economy and to an increasingly powerful alternative energy force.
finally, i would like to point out that the third objective we have, alongside the challenge of climate change, is the extension of social welfare and the affirmation of social rights, which must grow as a sign of european identity that has enabled us to reach where we have reached and to be a reference in other countries.
the unanimous complaint of the acp countries that they have been put under pressure is a sign of a miserable negotiating climate.
we should concentrate on the subject of trade and climate change in this draft report.
the problem is not world trade, not the global division of labour, not that trade is helping regions that were poor or that are poor to get ahead, but that our transport is not yet efficient and ecological enough.
the problem is that because of poverty or low wealth in certain regions of the world, many people and countries cannot afford the necessary and ecologically and economically sound climate protection.
it is only by integrating these regions into global trade that we will be able to ensure that people there can afford to take care of the environment and climate.
people who struggle to survive every day don't think about protecting the environment or the climate.
only through effective world trade will we be able to sell our modern technologies to the whole world and thus contribute to climate protection.
so it's not less trade that's the answer to the problem, but in my view more trade is the answer to the problems of trade and climate change.
on the other hand, the draft report from the committee on the environment was corrected and put into a workable and realistic text: all amendments aimed at abusing the new comitology procedure in such a way as to change the essential content of the existing laws on gmos bypassing it were rejected.
in the light of the climate debate, it should have long been clear to the ideologically-charged green politicians that we need to improve renewable raw materials for the production of biomass and energy through biotechnological methods.
our arable land simply isn't enough to produce enough conventional energy crops.
we must also prevent competition between food and energy crops!
i am particularly concerned about the promotion of sustainable tourism, which takes account of ecological, economic and social factors in equal measure.
sustainable tourism is a prerequisite for the development and maintenance of tourist activities and a crucial factor in the preservation and enhancement of our cultural and natural heritage.
i would therefore ask all colleagues from tourist regions in particular to support the objective of sustainability!
i have decided to vote in favour of the alain lipietz report on ‘trade and climate change’ at the november mini-plenary session in brussels.
however, i have decided to vote against some of the amendments and paragraphs because i believe that global warming has to be addressed through sustainable measures which do not have an adverse effect on world economic growth, or the long-term prospects of europe’s social model.
i am very sensitive to the issue of climate change.
the european union has taken the lead in proposing far-reaching solutions on how to tackle climate change.
i believe that global trade has been beneficial to the world economy, but at the same time i acknowledge that more needs to be done, especially in the transport sector, to reduce harmful emissions.
such strategies will begin with an assessment of the status of marine waters and their existing impacts and pressures and will develop targets to find good environmental status.
most importantly, the objective of the directive is now clear and ambitious, as member states are required to take the necessary measures to achieve good environmental status in the marine environment by the year 2020 at the latest.
the legislators have agreed on a definition of good environmental status, including a series of associated descriptors, which will have to be met.
in addition, the focus is on exposure and the need to address the sources of pollution.
the call by environmental groups for the immediate introduction of a strict limit value for pm2,5 is not realistic.
first, the pollution of our air has decreased dramatically in recent decades.
a new study by the european environment agency shows that in the eu, the reduction of particulate matter emissions was around 50% between 1990 and 2004 - even before the introduction of pm10 limits.
and thirdly, to further reduce air pollution, neither short-term actionism such as roadblocks and driving bans nor stricter limits that are only on paper will succeed.
the only way to reduce air pollution in the long term is at eu level, mainly by strengthening crossborder measures.
i wish to begin by thanking and congratulating the rapporteur, mr krahmer, for his excellent work on the ambient air quality directive, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for their positive contribution.
on average, the life expectancy of eu citizens is reduced by more than eight months due to air pollution.
the community measures addressing emissions at source have been outlined in the thematic strategy on air pollution.
the commission and parliament share a common understanding on the importance of these measures to achieve an effective reduction of emissions.
with this important piece of legislation, the european union will stand ready to continue to effectively reduce and minimise the significant adverse effects of air pollution.
cities and municipalities must draw up air quality plans and, for example, establish environmental zones if they do not comply with the limit values.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from transport.
measuring emissions alone does not improve air quality.
the focus should be on long-term, sustainable measures such as environmental zones.
we know that there are already good initiatives in the european union, such as environmental zones or the conversion of vehicle fleets.
now we really must follow the words with deeds, so that an ambitious air pollution policy is not carried out to the point of absurdity.
while sudan's judicial system still has many gaps to close the country's climate of impunity, international jurisdiction appears to be an alternative.
the crucial question for the green group is also whether the european budget is really forward-looking and responsive to the major challenges of the coming years, especially in our responsibility for foreign policy, but also in research and development, in education and, of course, in the fight against climate change.
what has been built on good foundations for the achievement of the millennium development goals and also for climate protection objectives is being torn down again by the way in which pressure is being put on the economic partnership negotiations and, above all, on the group-oriented energy policy.
this was among the main objectives in setting up an energy community, which is based on eu legislation, for the internal gas and electricity markets, and in particular its provisions on security of energy supply and solidarity.
south-east europe is at the crossroads of several main energy routes.
new lng terminals on the adriatic coast and the new gas and electricity interconnectors linking to the different energy sources were recently put into service or are at an advanced phase of development.
in the framework of the energy community treaty, with the support of eu financial instruments and the international financial institutions, the commission promotes the development of an integrated market in the region, anchored to the eu market.
there is also a very clear focus on energy efficiency.
in order to strengthen energy security, the commission favours the policy of diversification of suppliers and of transport routes.
the commission also considers that russia will in the future remain an important energy source for south-east europe but alongside other sources from the mediterranean basin and the caspian sea region.
and secondly, kosovo's energy dependence is a particular problem.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
the external costs taken into account are: accidents, congestion, air pollution, climate change and noise.
the directive provides for the internalisation of external costs in mountain areas linked to environmental damage and congestion by applying a surcharge of up to 25% of the infrastructure toll.
the revenue from this overspending must be reallocated to projects which directly contribute to the alleviation of environmental damage.
madam president, i know how much this is at the heart of our sustainable development policy.
this is particularly important in the context of the current climate change debate.
secondly, will this model take account of the climate and environmental objectives set by the eu?
this is not a simple methodology, because the approaches so far are based on current costs and not on the achievement of environmental objectives.
do not forget, those of you who say that, after all, the union works even without these changes, that there are a number of new elements in this reform treaty that will help us and explicitly allow us to tackle more effectively climate change and the whole energy challenge, as well as providing for more openness through public council meetings and the increased role of national parliaments.
equally, there is a consensus on the need for actions to address all aspects of sustainable development as part of the strategy.
this includes flexicurity, social inclusion and climate change.
that is why it also has a social component, because it projects human dignity in the world of work, in the world of employment, in the world of health, in the field of social protection and assistance, and also human dignity in relation to the protection of the environment.
we must begin now to re-envision the future: a region where conflict has given way to cooperation, where a regional economy brings together the capabilities and resources of 22 countries – more than 300 million people, from the atlantic to the indian ocean – and where cross-border partnerships advance development, health, the environment and more.
that is to say, the new constitution, as marcello vernola has already said, which has declared montenegro an ecological state, must not be an empty promise.
it constitutes montenegro as a democratic, civil and ecological state governed by the rule of law.
accept our proposal for a specific western balkans agenda for an intensive economic and environmental partnership.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i am referring to the signing of the bilateral immunity agreement with the united states and to the unhealthy speculation in land and real estate, which negates environmental protection and prevents a truly sustainable development of their beautiful coastal region.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the recognition and promotion of the social and environmental aspects of trade – sustainable development – will be an integral part of the free trade agreement with south korea.
i agree that effective enforcement of standards is key to securing an ambitious and effective result on sustainable development in this agreement.
we expect to cover a greater number of multilateral environmental agreements, and to include issues such as decent work and a stronger commitment to ilo core conventions, and expect to go beyond other recent agreements, such as those covered by the korea-us fta.
the sustainability impact assessment has been launched.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
let us not be mistaken, it is not a european strategy for africa, or vice versa, no, it is a joint strategy of the two continents and it is a joint strategy with ambition that develops in the five major themes that are important for the two continents: peace and security, climate change, human rights, these areas that are also - sorry, i forgot this area of the greatest importance - these five themes are the five structuring themes of a political dialogue with africa that interests, as i have said, africa, europe but also the world.
i have no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, for those who are at all familiar with these issues, that all those who are interested in human rights, those who are interested in the issues of climate change, those who are interested in the issues of migration and the defence of immigrants, those who are interested in development issues, those who are interested in security issues, were pleased to see that europe and africa had finally built a political framework for negotiation and a political framework for dialogue.
on the economic agenda, i would also like to stress the contribution we have made to maritime policy at european level by adopting the framework directive on the marine environment strategy as a fundamental condition for europe to have a coherent approach between all countries in its relationship with the sea.
and on energy and climate change, i just want to make two points.
the first was the completion of the strategic plan for energy technologies.
but i also want to stress the bali agreement, which was reached under the portuguese presidency, so that we have today, as we have, a clear negotiating road map so that in 2009 we can once again have a global agreement to respond to the challenges of climate change.
that statement shall mean the following: firstly, europe has solved its institutional problems and is now focused on what matters, to face the challenges of a changing world, to assert a leading position in institutional reform, to assert education, training and research as a central issue for solving europe's role in a global world, but also to fight against all the environmental challenges that threaten the world.
at the same time, during this period and specifically in these six months, we have seen the european union take the lead on policies that affect every european every day: economic growth and job creation, climate change, energy, migration and innovation.
this brings to fruition extensive work begun by the commission almost three years ago, in march 2005. following a wide public debate on a green paper issued by the commission in june 2006, we have now reached a clear consensus in the european institutions on how important maritime policy is for the union to meet the challenges of globalisation and competitiveness, of climate change and energy, and to maximise the potential of our oceans and seas in a sustainable way.
before this, we will come forward with our package of measures to realise the union's promises on climate change and energy.
this is another point about globalization: climate change and the need to have a global solution to a global problem.
the european commission alone is the second largest humanitarian donor in the world and, by driving forward this consensus, has responded strongly to the increasingly challenging environment facing humanitarians.
after the nice summit in december 2000, that is exactly seven years ago, this parliament has shown a lot of energy and a lot of commitment to get an improved european treaty, and i think the whole parliament thanks you for making this a reality seven years later.
for the same reason that we have a strategic partnership with china, with india and with russia, and not having brazil is a mistake, because nothing in the world is achieved, it is only what is politically obvious, nothing in the world is achieved in terms of the environment, nor in terms of trade, without brazil.