welcome to the waste of 22 working days, 50 extra hotel bills, eur 250 million spent on the travelling circus between strasbourg, luxembourg and brussels, and welcome to the 5 500 votes in a year where it is difficult to know exactly what you voted for.
this is necessary if trains in the eu are to provide a sufficiently competitive alternative to other modes of transport and thus provide more environmentally friendly and energy-efficient transport.
this can become a slippery slope where environmental legislation and considerations are ignored at will.
we are producing far too much waste in europe today, and unfortunately the amount is increasing day by day.
today, each european produces on average 500 kilos of waste a year.
the primary objective of this legislation must therefore be to reduce the amount of waste.
we therefore support the need for binding quantitative and qualitative targets for the reduction of waste in europe.
firstly, if you read the proposal, there is not much difference between recycling and incineration of waste, if only the waste, when incinerated, is used to generate energy.
both are called recovery, but the skin is deceiving here, because there is a huge difference - from an environmental point of view - in how useful the two processes are.
in those cases we must demand the use of the best technology both in terms of energy efficiency but also, of course, in terms of other negative environmental consequences that may result from combustion.
we get that if we treat waste like a commodity.
to sum up: we must reduce the amount of waste and we must ensure that there is a great difference in the hierarchy.
the court of justice has already ruled that the rules on environmental penalties adopted unanimously are unlawful because the judges want the rules to be adopted by majority vote and to be subject to their own control.
that is why i think we should also focus our attention very much on having sound performance in consumer protection, most importantly in energy, in transport and in telecommunications.
i am delighted with the commissioner's energy and willingness to do something about consumer policy, and i am also particularly pleased that she is focusing on the whole issue of internet commerce and the rights and opportunities that should be in this area.
but just a few weeks ago, it seemed unrealistic to believe in binding targets to increase the use of renewable energy to one fifth of the eu's total energy consumption by 2020. that went really well!
but we must also move forward with stricter environmental requirements for cars and aircraft, for example.
and we must be very ambitious to ensure the full liberalisation of the european energy market.
we must have a real internal energy market and the german presidency must play a very important role in this.
standing together in europe, we also have the opportunity to achieve a global climate policy agreement involving hesitant countries like the united states and the fast-moving countries in asia such as china and india.
i welcome this achievement which, i think, is a very strong landmark for the european union, making europe a front-runner in tackling climate change worldwide.
(laughter) my second point is that climate and energy policy is not a cost, but a new competitive parameter and a new opportunity to create more and better jobs, as called for in the lisbon agenda.
mr president, i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mr virrankoski, for a report which sets out very clearly some of the issues we are seeing here ahead of the presentation by the commission of the draft budget for 2008. we in the alde group agree that the eu must maintain its focus on the lisbon process through the budget in order to be able to react quickly when new issues such as energy and climate change arise.
ambitions for the aquatic environment slipped down.
the aquatic environment is a matter of concern to the people of europe and we should live up to expectations on the part of the european union.
fortunately, the committee on the environment was given a very good correction on the commission's proposal.
we owe it to our environment, our health, and our descendants to stand firm.
at the same time, it was intended that there should be increased cooperation between the committee on the environment and the committee on agriculture on this matter.
it must also be a short-term interest to produce vodka as a product without a definition and as a place where you can easily use what you have left over as waste.
if the eu is to meet the challenges of the 21st century and create sustainable growth with more and better jobs, we need to improve the quality of work as well as the quality of jobs.
we need a better coordinated strategy to save the environment, to save fisheries and to achieve a sustainable and efficient development of maritime transport in good cooperation with the land-based sport.
we must develop every single mode of transport in an environmentally sound way and we must develop the interaction between modes of transport so that both efficiency and the environment are taken into account.
the legislation to which companies are subject is of great importance for their competitiveness, sustainable growth and employment performance in terms of creating more and better jobs.
increased competition in the energy market and general improvements in competition policy.
while we welcome a barrier-free internal market, we cannot and should not accept that the two big countries continue to impede, indeed undermine, a free energy market.
the key problems - climate change, traffic congestion and accidents - are largely ignored.
it is as if we have become accustomed to traffic jams and accidents, but climate change cannot simply be adapted once it has happened.
and it is precisely these modes of transport that must be strengthened if we are ever to have sustainable freight transport in europe.
the delegation would, however, like to underline its support for reforms of eu agricultural aid towards a more market-oriented approach, and the eu's agricultural policy should be linked to, inter alia, environmental policy and public health initiatives.
human rights and environmental issues must be considered from the outset and on an equal footing with economic issues.
the dialogue with third countries must help to strengthen democratic, social, political and environmental rights, and it must therefore also be clear that trade agreements must contain an unequivocal mechanism for how and when agreements can be suspended if a trading partner does not respect human rights and democratic clauses.
i am glad that we are putting renewable energy high on the agenda today, because renewable energy is a very central cornerstone for europe when we have to make it plausible to the rest of the world that we can actually fight climate change and secure the energy supply for our citizens.
i see my report as an opportunity for parliament to influence the formulation of future renewable energy legislation and at the same time to make the heads of government and the commission aware that the ambitious objectives they have adopted require a great deal of real effort if they are not to end up as empty promises.
first of all, i would like to stress that a key message of my report is that we must create the right framework for the development of renewable energy.
this means that we must rethink all our energy policy.
renewable energy cannot be considered separately from the other energy objectives, namely the implementation of an internal market in electricity, the realisation of an energy efficiency potential of 20% and the revision of the co2 emissions trading system.
these are the conditions that must be in place if we are to achieve our policy objectives of increasing security of supply, reducing co2 emissions and creating new jobs in europe.
but at the same time we must develop an energy policy based on solidarity with the developing countries, where more than a million people lack access to energy.
the energy sector should no longer be seen as a mere technical measure in our daily lives, but more as a player in solving the problems of the environment, climate and security of supply.
these funds allow for investments in renewable energy, energy savings and other climate-friendly measures.
however, the member states' spending plans show that the new member states would rather spend the money on building motorways than investing in renewable energy.
only one percent of the funds are allocated to renewable energy and energy savings.
i would therefore urge the commission to revise the guidelines so that support for green energy projects in the eu is systematically ensured, so that there is a coherence between what we adopt with one hand and how we allocate the funds with the other.
i have stressed in the report the importance of including energy efficiency in the national action plans.
several have pointed out to me that their separate action plans for energy efficiency have no place in this report.
but i think it is essential that we achieve this link because otherwise it is a purely sisyphus task if we are constantly increasing our energy consumption and at the same time have to reach a relative target of 20% renewable energy.
we must always keep the perspective that investment in renewable energy is a benefit for europe.
promoting a market for renewable energy will contribute to the achievement of the lisbon objectives by increasing employment in the member states and by increasing the efforts of the member states and the union in research and innovation.
the last issue i would like to highlight today is, of course, the question of biofuels and renewable energy in the transport sector.
although i generally support the idea that the transport sector must also bear its share of renewable energy, i think there are a couple of pitfalls that we have to be aware of.
firstly, the introduction of biofuels must not lead us to relax the requirements for energy-efficient cars.
secondly, we must demand sustainability criteria which ensure a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and that increased demand for biomass can be combined with the preservation of biodiversity.
last but not least, we must stress that biofuels are not the only way to use renewable energy in the transport sector.
i hope that we will have a good debate today and that parliament as a whole can send a signal to the commission and the member states about the importance of achieving the eu's renewable energy objectives.
we must ensure that commuters are given good conditions and that they see rail transport as a good and attractive alternative to other forms of transport which require more energy.
and with the continuing increase in air traffic, airports will face increasing problems, with negative consequences for efficiency, the environment and competitiveness.
that is why i also welcome the commission's initiative to include aviation in the eu emissions trading system.
the environmental impact of the airport on the population living nearby; what is the spatial planning and what does an airport mean in general for the growth and employment of the area and from that may develop a good practice.
that is why it is so important that we use these substances in a sustainable way so that we can reduce their use in cases where we use too many substances.
our nature is damaged, our environment is damaged, our health is damaged, and our groundwater can be damaged.
i think that is why the commission deserves criticism, not least because you, mr kyprianou, are known - also in my own country - as a man who is very much concerned with the interests of consumers and who does a lot to protect the environment and health.
i do not understand how you can stand here today and defend a commission proposal on zoning which will force european countries to lower their environmental protection.
i speak on behalf of the whole socialist group and fortunately also on behalf of the large majority who voted for a position in the committee on the environment.
it will be bad for the environment, it will be bad for health, it will be bad for groundwater!
i hope you will support what we have proposed in the committee on the environment - also to make life easier for industry.
it is in the compromise we have agreed in the committee on the environment: we do not say mutually binding approval of pesticides, but mutually binding approval of data.
this will mean a great deal for the health and the environment of europe.
in many lands this is because of the pollution of groundwater.
but it is clear that we cannot say that there is a mutual recognition of pesticides, precisely because the geographical, climatic and environmental conditions in each country are different.
it comes as the last report from the european parliament in the follow-up of the energy and climate change package from 10 january.
the first concerns our preparation of the internal market package, and the second, the continuing work on the directive on renewable energy.
i am also very grateful for the timely input mr reul and this house will provide in the area of energy innovation, clean fossil fuel and nuclear energy.
europe needs to achieve the important goal of combating climate change.
for that, and also for security of supply, we need low-carbon, highly efficient energy technologies.
we also need to use fossil fuels in a more sustainable way.
and it will be difficult to achieve our climate change goals without the use of nuclear energy.
let me start by addressing the issue of energy innovation.
europe has proven to be successful in setting a regulatory framework in support of low-carbon technologies.
targets have been agreed for energy savings and for renewable energy.
if we only depend upon imported low-carbon technologies, we will fail our security of supply and competitiveness objectives.
the analyses currently under way in the commission show that europe is falling short in the development of low-carbon technologies.
for europe to lead the world in innovation for climate change and energy security, it is essential to be more efficient in the management of the resources invested in energy innovation.
we therefore need better, joint strategic planning at eu level, as well as more effective implementation of energy technology programmes and measures.
furthermore, and as was stated in mr reul’s report, we have to mobilise additional financial and human resources for energy technology research and demonstration.
we have already increased the budget for energy in the seventh framework programme by 50% and for the competitiveness and innovation programme by 100%.
i will now turn to the second part of the report: the challenges associated with conventional sources of energy.
we must recognise that these energy sources will play a substantial role in the energy mix for years to come.
we share the same view: that we need to make the transition from traditional to sustainable fossil fuels.
in particular, the commission will address the issue of the legal framework for the capture of carbon dioxide and its geological storage.
we will table a legislative proposal which aims at establishing the regulatory framework in order to provide legal certainty, and to ensure public confidence in the safety of carbon capture and storage (ccs) deployment.
this is why ccs will be included among the strategic energy technologies in the strategic energy technology plan.
i will now come to nuclear energy.
i am pleased to note that your message regarding nuclear energy is fully in line with our conclusions in the communication on a nuclear illustrative programme, as widely supported by the economic and social committee.
i am also glad that the first meeting of the high level group on nuclear safety and waste management took place on 12 october.
i share the report’s view that an open dialogue on nuclear energy is essential.
for this reason, the commission has set up a nuclear forum, on the lines of the other energy forums.
the aim of the nuclear forum is to enlarge the debate on nuclear energy, and to involve all the relevant players.
energy efficiency and savings and our main criticism are far too weak.
there is a lot of energy to be saved and there are known technologies available, and at least for the developing countries this is far, far more important than ccs.
but if the developing countries are to develop, renewable energy is essential, and it is grotesque that it is almost not included in the report.
the way much of the aid is now provided is contrary to the eu's principles of aid, which are to enable the recipient to build a sustainable economy.
the report leaves much to be desired in terms of the steps needed to combat climate change and thus demonstrates that the european parliament is not at the forefront of this fight.
carbon storage is of great importance for reducing greenhouse gases.
so, foraging on the ground, where carbon is burning off, is a huge burden.
it is very positive that the european parliament has agreed to examine the possibility of using the 'polluter pays' principle with article 22 and that land use will be assessed with article 28, because it is of great importance for carbon sequestration.
the process must be participatory in order to achieve win-win solutions, and a climate of trust between the social partners and the institutions is needed.
these common principles, which we unanimously endorse, include, inter alia, taking into account the diversity of realities in the member states which will require different paths and solutions, the need to correct the segmentation of the labour market, the different dimensions of flexicurity - labour law, education, training, social protection - the recognition of the relevance of social dialogue in this context, the promotion of social inclusion, non-discrimination, equality and reconciliation between work and family life, as well as the need to defend the compatibility of policies with sound and sustainable public finances.