a large part of our energy resources passes through it.
we are in the midst of a debate on energy policy and the position of your two countries will undoubtedly considerably strengthen europe's weight on the international scene.
we must certainly legislate better - both those who propose legislation and those who amend and approve it, but better regulation cannot be confused with less regulation... (applause)... nor should it be done to the detriment of the rights - especially social and environmental rights - of the community acquis.
i have dealt with this subject - sometimes with concrete results - in colombia, china, tunisia, egypt, algeria, turkey... and in lahti, finland, i was able to speak openly to president putin, reminding him that europe should not trade human rights for energy.
together we can do more, and that is why we must strengthen our union in the search for a common energy policy, especially after we have seen the ears of the gas wolf coming to us from the east.
we have not yet had an energy policy in europe.
we have only applied competition policy to the energy sector as if it were any other sector.
i am absolutely convinced that in the world of tomorrow there is an inseparable pair: the energy/environment pair, and europe can find in this inseparable pair a new reason for being.
i am pleased that the european parliament has succeeded in getting the council and the commission to accept a large part of its proposals, which are aimed at the complex task of harmonizing and modernizing the present 27 different railway systems with the aim of providing us with a european railway area that makes railways a sustainable, attractive, safe and future-oriented medium.
i am also referring to the issue of environmental damage.
at the moment, the importance of environmental damage is so great that it seems impossible that there can be any regulation that does not take this special aspect into account.
at the same time, however, i would like to make it clear that the environment remains very difficult and that, therefore, success in the fight against the death penalty can only be achieved through well-considered and gradual action by the european union.
we all share the principle of reducing polluting emissions which guides the proposals of the commission and the member states.
i am glad to have heard something here that i consider indispensable, namely that there must be an international agreement on reducing emissions which will succeed in integrating everyone; and if this is not achieved, we will hardly be able to solve it by assuming unilateral objectives.
among other things, because the european union alone cannot reduce global emissions or set global temperature targets.
first, countries that have historically been the biggest polluters should reduce their emissions further, and emerging economies should set reasonable emission ceilings for the future.
secondly, all sectors will have to face up to their responsibilities in terms of their emissions, because it is pointless to talk about electricity and not talk about transport.
thirdly, the carbon sequestration benefits of agriculture and forests, which are natural regulators of the environment, must also be taken into account.
finally, i would like to mention the usefulness of promoting renewable energy and clean transport and say that it is urgent that the nuclear debate be brought seriously to the table once and for all.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
they have significant natural resources, such as oil, gas, fish and tropical wood, as well as fantastic biodiversity.
however, climate change threatens many of the islands, even whole countries.
we have identified the ‘blue-green’ theme as the cornerstone of the focus on the sustainable management of the region’s natural resources.
we can help to promote measures for the sustainable management of fishery resources in those waters, and it would be very positive for eu tuna fishermen to make further progress, as the committee on fisheries called for in its opinion, towards a network of tuna agreements similar to that which already exists in indian ocean waters.
how will the commission defend the interests of european companies in the markets of sectors where we are highly competitive, such as transport, energy or public works, in the context of the objective of continuing on the path of greater commercial openness, and not the other way around?
through these agreements we achieve a twofold objective: firstly, we ensure the protection of the interests of the union's high-altitude fishing fleet and, secondly, we improve the conditions for achieving sustainable fishing in the waters of the associated countries.
in this respect, i should like to conclude by stressing that the union - and therefore our high-sea fleet in the face of others that are even operating illegally - is committed to ensuring the sustainability of global fishing activities and has accepted the un food and agriculture organisation's code of conduct for responsible fisheries.
i have no doubt that this proposal will be useful as a basic tool for the formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of environmental policies at all levels and of policies or activities which may have a direct or indirect impact on the environment.
i also think it is crucial that it is designed as a tool for providing public information, and in this sense we hope that inspire will be a complement to public sector information and the directives on access to environmental information, adopted under the aarhus convention that we approved not long ago, and that it will address a number of issues that are not covered by those directives, such as data sharing between public authorities and interoperability issues.
finally, i should like to express my satisfaction at the agreement reached by the council on free access to the service in most cases and on the chapter on confidentiality of data, which will finally coincide with the provisions laid down in the aarhus convention on access to information from the public on the environment.
on the one hand it has listened to everyone and to all countries, it has listened to industry, but it has also listened to those who are most directly affected and, on the other hand, it has tried to apply a flexible and open approach so that the waste directive does not become a problem but solves existing problems.
the previous legislation has largely solved problems, but it has also created problems which have led the court of justice to issue more judgments on the subject of waste than in any other field, and it has created a tremendous problem for the municipalities, who are ultimately the ones who have to apply the rule, who are small, who are very uneven across europe and who are many hundreds of thousands.
i also support and welcome amendment no 112 on biodegradable waste, because we are trying to create a society in which it is a question of minimizing the use of resources and, at the same time, making the most of what we are using, through recycling and recovery.
compost, or what we call "waste-based compost", is one of the oldest forms of compost on earth.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner which is not in keeping with the environment.
i am the rapporteur for the waste directive and i commend this amendment precisely because, while there is no specific directive, which there must be, for biodegradable waste, while a directive is being drawn up on compost, which is not on the horizon or in the strategy of the european commission at the moment - which has left it aside in this policy of less legislation - it is necessary to frame this issue so that there is a great deal of discipline in the treatment of waste and, in turn, so that farmers can use this medium with full confidence.
although improvements in legislation in this area have been generally successful, it is urgent that the right environment be created in which legislative reforms can be implemented.
on the other hand, we have to reduce global warming without damaging development in developing countries.
in addition, environmental, social and security challenges need to be addressed.
i would point out from the democratic point of view and from the political point of view in the energy sector, in view of the policies we have to develop, that there is a serious danger in reducing, because from the democratic point of view - and this parliament is very interested in this - we will go from having 35 legal bases to acting on 85, and that is of enormous and decisive importance.
we can talk about climate change, we can talk about energy and the social model, but if we do not reach a positive conclusion in the doha round - which obviously cannot integrate these elements directly, which must be taken into account and put on the agenda of our international relations - i believe that we alone cannot solve problems which have a global dimension in the world.
mr president of the council, madam commissioner, vice-president of the commission, the lisbon strategy is the launching of the great european project, once we have got the euro, to achieve greater well-being and, above all, employment levels and participation of europeans in the labour force, especially women, an ambitious project for the year 2010. we were marked by a path of openness - 'opening up europe', a path to liberalize strategic sectors, communications, transport, energy, financial services, and ultimately to modernise labour relations too, in order to achieve through social agreements a modernisation of labour markets which would make it more accessible, especially for young people and the longterm unemployed, to find jobs.
for that we will need a lot of political initiative, a lot of political capacity to tackle those reforms which cannot wait any longer - and the house has mentioned energy, the environment this afternoon - in short, the sum of reforms which must restore the confidence of europeans in their own project.
we have focused on some important issues, namely those inherent in the lisbon strategy: growth, employment, but also - and this has only been added since gothenburg - sustainability.
we will also be dealing with this at the council meeting in the spring, which will be devoted to the development of renewable energies.
this is also an important contribution to environmental protection for the first time, and at the same time it opens up a new field of employment.
it is not enough for europe to lead the way in this area - energy saving and climate protection - we must also convince others of this.
the european union has already made a number of calls for energy solidarity and for talks with russia.
but if i want to achieve this security, then i also need to negotiate with russia, and then i also need a mandate to finally bring this partnership and cooperation agreement with russia to life, to bring into the negotiations precisely the things that also play a role in the question of energy security.
if we all know how pipelines are laid in russia, where they are laid, and that global warming may soon cause these pipelines to lose their present state, then it is important to establish close contact with russia in this particular area, and not just with the other producing countries or the corresponding transit countries.
it is our task to reiterate the objectives pursued by the lisbon strategy - growth, jobs and sustainability - and to coordinate them with new themes and challenges, such as research, education and training.
at the same time, as the chancellor said in her speech to the german presidency here a few weeks ago, some of those who oppose this constitutional treaty also want more powers for the european union, for example in the field of energy.
the outcome of the spring council will be very important in this respect, as will its capacity to deliver on the crucial issues on the agenda, including climate change.
it is important to say that there is a longer-term objective and target for what we have to do in order to fight climate change.
the 30% cut in developed countries’ emissions by 2020 is a necessary step towards the longer-term objective of reducing them by as much as 50% below 1990 levels by 2050. it is necessary to see that this is a step in that direction.
this reduction is essential if we are to meet the 2°c objective, which we know, in turn, should prevent massive and irreversible disruption of the global climate system.
it is the developed countries that should continue to shoulder most of this global effort to reduce emissions over the next decade or so, as they are already doing under the kyoto protocol, so as both to be credible and motivate those poorer countries in the world that will have to follow suit.
compared to 1990, us emissions are currently up by 15%, those of the eu-25 are down by 5% and those of russia are down by 30%.
the commission has made impact assessments that show that taking action to limit climate change is fully compatible with sustaining global growth.
investment in a low-carbon economy will require around half a percent of global gdp over the period from 2013 to 2030 and would reduce global gdp growth by 0.19% per year, which is a fraction of the expected annual gdp growth rate of 2.8%.
this is without associated health benefits, greater energy security and reduced damage from avoided climate change being taken into account.
this is a small insurance premium to pay for significantly reducing the risk of irreversible damage to our economy and to our planet, and especially if you compare it with the stern review’s estimate that uncontrolled climate change will cost between 5 and 20% of gdp in the longer term.
climate change is already costing us – just ask insurance companies all over the world.
listening to all these interesting speeches, i am reminded of the intimate link between the growth and jobs strategy and sustainable development, because we have heard all the arguments for why we as europeans would like to see economic growth, coupled with social security and maintenance of a high level of environmental protection, while continuing to be ambitious.
i think that sustainable development is an objective which is gaining ground more and more as the vision for europe and for the world.
for the primary producer of the renewable energies, namely the farmers, we have a specific incentive which is equal to the value of eur 45 per hectare if one enters into a contract producing renewable energies.
we discussed this with the new member states and they have been introduced into this scheme from 1 january 2007. if one wants to invest, for example, in bio-energy at the farm level, one can look into the possibilities in the first and the second pillar of the rural development policy on competition and on the environment.
so there are different possibilities of looking for specific support for energy purposes.
madam president, i am very grateful to the european parliament and in particular to the rapporteur, mrs batzeli, and the committee on agriculture and rural development, the committee on international trade and the committee on regional development for their work in preparing an own-initiative report on the commission’s communication ‘towards a sustainable european wine sector’.
it is no longer sustainable.
you have put forward suggestions on how to ensure that grubbing-up complies with a certain number of social and environmental aspects and i can assure you that these will serve as a useful inspiration when we consider how better to frame grubbing-up within our legislative proposal.
in the current environment of open borders, efforts to fight against terrorism, internally and externally, are aspects that are closely linked.
the long-term sustainability of public finances should be ensured by pursuing a three-pillar strategy, namely reform of the pension and health systems, reduction of public debt and increase of the employment rate and productivity.
in short, ladies and gentlemen, the improvement in our economies and the acceleration in job creation are clear proof that the european economic and social model, with its high degree of social protection and environmental requirements, is perfectly compatible with the globalisation of the economy and economic growth.
the third important coincidence between parliament and the commission is the need to act not only at the level of each of the member states, but also at the european level, to make progress in the achievement of an internal market in sectors vital to our economy, such as the energy sector or the financial services sector, to strengthen support for innovation, to create a more favourable environment for business activity or a greater adaptability of the product, service and labour markets.
among these priorities for action at european level, the reports rightly emphasise the issue of energy, which will be one of the main focuses of the spring european council, which will discuss the energy package proposed by the commission on 10 january.
the degree of commitment and ambition shown by the heads of state or government in developing a genuine common energy policy will be decisive in assessing whether the challenge of guaranteeing our energy supply is being met credibly, while at the same time addressing climate change.
we must also insist on the need for reforms: reforms of the labour market, based on dialogue and consensus; reforms of economic policies to favour small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the key to growth and job creation; reforms to complete the single market, especially in the services and energy sectors; reforms to improve the efficiency of the markets for goods, services, jobs and capital; and also tax reforms aimed at providing a coordinated fiscal framework that stimulates job creation and encourages the birth and development of that small and mediumsized enterprise fabric which we consider to be fundamental.
finally, reform of public pension systems to ensure their sustainability by consolidating public finances and by encouraging supplementation with individual schemes.
it was also important to say that competition and employment in gothenburg have been complemented by sustainability.
the spring council will be held in a few days' time and will deal with a subject which has implications for employment, namely the question of energy.
on the one hand, energy as a cost driver, but on the other hand, the question of how we will use energy in the future.
it is not the invention of one party or another, but it has become clear that the promotion of renewable forms of energy is an important aspect.
we must continue to improve the functioning of product and service markets; we must continue to integrate the financial systems in europe; we must continue to improve the quality of regulation to create a favourable environment for small and mediumsized enterprises so that they can compete without an administrative burden, without a series of obstacles that prevent them from getting ahead; we must give workers a good reason to ask for further improvements in the functioning of labour markets.
only if we continue to make that effort will we be able to offer really good quality jobs, a future for the next generations, a combination of environmental policies that fight climate change and energy policies that are able to improve our competitiveness.
and europe is the best instrument we have in the 21st century to make compatible, as the lisbon strategy said from the beginning, economic dynamism, social cohesion and solidarity with future generations in terms of sustainability, with older populations, with the environment and with the next generations.
to do that, we need to discuss in depth the implementation of the national lisbon reform programmes and the community lisbon strategy, as the spring european council will do, and discuss how to draw up a common energy policy compatible with an ambitious european environmental strategy.
i am particularly pleased to note the commitment of parliament on a matter of vital importance to achieving sustainable management of fisheries resources in and out of community waters.
however, despite significant progress against illegal fishing, it is far from eradicated and remains one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable management of fisheries resources and marine biodiversity.
at a time when there is such concern about the sustainability of the marine environment and we see our own fishermen progressively being denied access to resources, it is extremely worrying that we have to witness even steps backwards from some member states, including one that i know well.
illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing not only poses a risk to biodiversity and the environment, with costs that in many cases may be directly irrecoverable, but also, as has been said, a major cost for many societies that live off fishing today and hope that future generations can continue to do so as well.
we believe that its main areas of action, namely the promotion of economic and social cohesion in the european union, the 2010 innovation initiative, environmental protection, the development of trans-european networks and the contribution to european development aid and external cooperation policy, have been successfully implemented.
and also - how could it not - in the report we emphasize energy, the energy components, the improvement of security of supply and market freedom, to which the eib can also contribute.
i therefore voted in favour of the plan to eradicate illegal fishing, arguing that all fisheries agreements with third countries should be renewed, since the benefits are important and mutual, because it seriously undermines the biological balance of the seas and that this represents a high environmental risk which we cannot afford.
there is also one issue which i consider to be fully accepted and that is that we are in a dynamic environment in which both the demands of society and, therefore, the incorporation of new social services are constantly evolving and changing.
i believe that the problems of the world are getting worse at a significant rate, both environmental problems and the problems of people excluded from all kinds of rights.
europeans have a model for the world made on the basis of the sustainability of our economic model for ourselves and for others.
we have directives in the european union, directives which have not been transposed into the member states, on company law, on environmental liability.
mr president, commissioner, what seems obvious at first sight is that there are more and more companies which see social and environmental responsibility as an opportunity, as an instrument for sustainable development, for growth and for job creation, and also as a good instrument to help companies and workers to adapt better to the changes demanded by the globalised economy of the 21st century.
in this developed environment, the community has a legal framework in this area that ranks among the most advanced in the world.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on community action on the provision of crossborder health services, by karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0001/2007 - b6-0013/2007).
it is an agreement which has the great virtue of strengthening these transatlantic relations at a key moment for both sides: the eve of elections in the united states and the need to make progress on environmental requirements for the aviation sector in europe.
it also contains provisions on technical cooperation in relation to climate change which i hope will prove useful in addressing the impact of the aviation sector.
it should be remembered that there is a joint committee which will play a key role in implementing the agreement, in discussing social issues, in dealing with ownership and control, competition, aid and environmental problems.
on the environmental aspects, i will say to mrs lichtenberger in particular that she is right.
we will also look for ways to use fuel efficiently and reduce emissions.
so there's a whole environmental component to this.
i think it is very important to view the limits the environment is putting in front of us as a true business opportunity, because i sincerely believe that whoever best understands that will also lead in the business community, in several areas, including those mentioned here such as, of course, environmental protection.
the commission agrees that this is a waste of talent and resources.
you know that the commission has only set benchmarks in its decision on co2 emissions from vehicles.
we believe that we should focus on second generation biofuels to avoid harmful environmental side effects.
the cultivation of these crops, including sugar beet, can be encouraged by granting energy crop premiums of eur 45 per hectare.
the new eu rural and regional development policy also includes support measures for renewable energy.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, we are faced with a very important question for the protection of the environment, but also for the protection of the correct application of community law.
i believe that there is a fundamental problem underlying this debate, the political problem, alongside the trade, energy, water, cultural and migration aspects.
we have the problem of energy, the environment, climate change, but we also have the barcelona process which deals with these issues.
the euro-mediterranean process must therefore be relaunched and strengthened from a political, economic, social, environmental, human and cultural point of view.
we call on the commission and the council to join forces to achieve a clear and sustainable solution for them.
it is a matter of policy options whether the future of europe belongs only to huge retail corporations and to importers or whether we can preserve a model compatible with our most essential social and environmental concerns.
practices such as so-called social or environmental dumping need also to be confronted and, when necessary, new means of tackling them should be seriously considered as a matter of community interest.
the second pillar is the promotion of sustainable human development and the progressive access of andean products to european markets, on competitive terms, taking into account the enormous economic asymmetries and the degree of integration between europeans and andeans, which will mean the review of the cap and subsidies by the union.
the environmental chapter, which should occupy a prominent place in the agreement, should include the pooling of policies aimed at energy saving, diversification, the promotion of alternative and renewable energies and the reduction of polluting emissions, in the direction taken by the last european council.
i am convinced that a markedly neoliberal trade agreement between unequal regions - in every sense of the word - only leads to deepening that inequality and fosters the exploitation of a business elite, deepening a wider circle of dependence, exclusion, poverty and very high social and environmental costs.
i believe that trade and cooperation should be based on sustainable development at regional level to the benefit of the people, and not a series of projects for the benefit of transnational capital such as the puebla-panama plan or the european investment bank.
in addition, the commission is of the opinion that the association agreements should pay particular attention to the effective implementation of internationally-agreed standards in the human rights, social, core labour and environmental fields in order to enhance sustainable development.
concerning political dialogue, these agreements will aim to tackle a wide range of matters, such as climate change, energy, migration and the fight against drugs.
we therefore believe that a good opportunity has been lost to encourage bi-regional relations which would strengthen a multidimensional view of them and guarantee sustainable human development for the andean and central american peoples.
we have spoken here, mr president, of the importance of a european policy on climate change.
and what about a common energy market?
the european consumer is buying more and more organic products and we must set up as soon as possible a suitable framework to meet those needs, defending not only the interests of consumers but also the interests of the sector and the environment in general.
our resources are not sufficient or transparent, and that is why the current situation is not sustainable.
i would like to begin by thanking you for accepting the amendments which call for the mandatory ratification of the convention on civil liability for damage caused by pollution from oil for fuels on ships.
among other things, the marine environment, so important to our food, our leisure and our transport, is under constant assault from pollutants, both from land and from the sea.
the specific cases of the prestige and the erika were notable, but we must not forget the pollution that occurs daily from uncontrolled dumping of waste from bilge tanks and tank cleaning.
we therefore have an obligation to impose all the controls and means at our disposal to tackle these criminal behaviours, and we must require all flag states to fulfil their responsibility, to have qualified inspectors with the necessary experience, and to have their port authorities verify the reliability of vessel hulls and compliance with waste disposal regulations.
on this last point, i would like to urge the commission to propose legislation to ensure that all vessels have automatic devices for recording the levels of liquid in bilge tanks and tanks every hour, like black boxes carried by airplanes, to detect criminal activities against the marine environment.
finally, i would like to mention amendments nos 4 and 12, which give the member states' administrations and private operators the possibility of bringing cases directly before the committee on safe seas and the prevention of pollution from ships.
based on this, the accession strategy for the common agricultural policy was based on economic, social and ecological factors.
i would also like, if possible, to hear some of the statements made yesterday by the kazakh minister in the presence of the community troika, to the effect that if the west thinks it can open an energy corridor in the caspian sea without the agreement of moscow and tehran, this would be very complicated.
the text we are about to vote on, the commission's text, has nothing to do with the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy and has nothing to do with the legitimate fight against fraud and piracy which affects the health and safety of people.
when they find that the european public is concerned about immigration or energy or global warming, they ask the commission to seek funding for these spectacular measures.
mr president, commissioner kroes, ladies and gentlemen, the existence of economic freedom, the functioning of the internal market and the sustainability of european development are inseparable from competition policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr andrejevs, and the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their excellent work in drafting this report.
the whole burden therefore falls on the member state concerned, which is ultimately the victim of the ecological and social damage which may result from hosting a vessel in a place of refuge, in addition to having to deal with the coverage of such damage.
it is not necessary to say how relieved the civilian population in the area is to see the ships moving away, because it is one thing to see your beaches surrounded by luxury motorcycles and unprecedented perfumes, and quite another to see your beaches, your marine environment and wildlife impregnated with potpourri or your fellow citizens affected by toxic gases.
the previous review, which was the third, was part of the first legislative package which was intended to tackle and correct irresponsible behaviour in maritime transport which led to unfortunate accidents, such as that of the erika, which left our environment and our coasts so seriously affected.
i hope that all these amendments will be approved by the european parliament's plenary, because it will reduce the risks to our seas and the environment and we will all benefit from it.
similarly, there is no doubt that a considerable amount of space is opening up in the field of ecological production, ecological engineering, etc.
it can only be stated that on the one hand there are companies which are in decline and fields which are in decline, on the other hand there are areas which are in rapid development and even new areas such as the field of environmental technologies within these fields.
i would like to say to the rapporteur that, of course, environmental and social aspects are covered by the agreement which includes the rules of the european union.
we hope that the galileo system will be operational as soon as possible and will become a key piece to help transport and to better observe our environmental problems, such as climate change.
i can mention, for example, that when the foreign ministers' council discussed the central asia strategy on monday, not only - as is sometimes criticised - did the interest in energy and resources play a role, but we also explicitly stated that we wanted to have an intensive human rights dialogue with the countries of central asia.
the commission also shares parliament’s concerns regarding the long-term sustainability of public finances and is putting increased emphasis on its assessment.
in this respect, a new report on the long-term sustainability of public finances in the european union was issued by the commission in october 2006. that report is based on eu common ageing-related expenditure projections.
it confirms the importance of addressing the sustainability challenge with a combination of fiscal consolidation and structural reforms.
the commission has continued its work on incorporating sustainability considerations in setting the medium-term budgetary objectives.
indeed, the improvement of fiscal balances in the medium term contributes to meeting the long-term sustainability implications.
the climate of violence linked to this situation has already left a balance of at least 38 peasant leaders killed.
finally, i would like to stress the importance of training in urban planning within the framework of the european social fund, in favour of the dissemination of new technologies and more efficient building products which make it possible to improve energy efficiency in the housing sector.
on the other hand we have to create the basic foundations for long-term sustainable development, for which, of course, innovation is crucial and the most important factor.
this is especially true of the rehabilitation of public spaces in deprived inner-city areas, including security measures, and of the connection of multi-occupancy family houses to water supplies and sewage, energy and telecommunications networks.
there will also be a leipzig charter on sustainable european cities.
one of the paragraphs concerns the challenges that must be dealt with in relation to housing, especially in the context of energy.
it identifies all the policies which have an impact on housing in the context of public health, energy, social policy and urban transport.
as now proposed, life+ will co-finance projects which will contribute to improving europe’s environment.
it will strengthen networking, communication and environmental governance and help share good practice throughout the european union.
the life project has always been a reference project: many ngos, many professionals, many municipalities have learned what european policy was and have learned to compete and to want to join environmental policy thanks to the life programme.
in addition, we must ensure that the approach to the competitiveness of our regions takes proper account of issues like population ageing, migration flows, climate change, energy and increased commercial competition.
it is by building on these successes and development strategies that the union can mobilise all its potential and place its economy on a high-growth, sustainable path.
while this engagement cannot replace bilateral negotiations between palestinians and israelis, the peace initiative can create a positive environment for them.
the energy and efforts invested by jordan, egypt, saudi arabia and others must also be recognised.
the next item is the report by mr paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on roaming on public mobile telephone networks in the community and amending directive 2002/21/ec on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (com (2006) 0382 - c6-0244/2006 - 2006/0133 (cod)) (a6-0155/2007).
european environmental law has to be applied.
in addition, the alternatives to this forest road are backed up by the preliminary study, the strategic environmental study, prepared by the consultancy scott wilson, a very prestigious international consultancy.
what is at stake is the seriousness of this parliament and the seriousness of european environmental legislation.
innovation is probably the only instrument which makes it possible, within a relatively short time, to achieve such important objectives as: 1) improving the quality and competitiveness of our enterprises; 2) making economic growth compatible with the preservation of the environment, quality of life and social cohesion; 3) innovation allows the maintenance of traditional sectors; 4) and, of course, innovation can contribute to substantially improving working conditions and also the integration of certain groups, such as people with disabilities.
moreover, given that the reflection period has been fruitful and that we do not live in a glass bell but in the world, there are a number of issues that come up today, such as climate change, energy solidarity, immigration, adapting our social model to an autumn demography and globalisation, the fight against international terrorism, dialogue between civilizations and the strengthening of economic governance in the euro area, which can enable us to enrich and respond to the concerns of citizens.
we have to ensure a better delivery on key policy areas such as migration or climate change.
this exercise is not about building european construction for its own sake, but about being able to address the increasingly globalised political environment and deliver on policies that really matter to our citizens.
there must be no dilution of the single market, but we are open to examining new ideas for developments in certain policy areas in order to face new or reinforce key policy challenges, such as sustainable development, migration or energy.
it is possible that an intergovernmental conference could improve the constitutional treaty: for example, by incorporating issues that were not on the table five years ago, such as climate change, energy or solidarity in energy matters, or, for example, by defining the functions of the coordinator of the anti-terrorist struggle, a matter of great importance today, after eta's announcement that it will kill again.
for that reason, in future the eu has to speak with a single voice on key issues, such as immigration, security, climate change and employment.
this plague is a symptom of the imbalance suffered by the mediterranean ecosystem.
the warming of coastal waters as a result of climate change and their increased salinity as a result of the reduced freshwater supply due to drought also contribute to this overfishing of jellyfish.
we are facing an environmental problem which affects all the coastal states and which requires a community approach.
i would like to say, in my personal assessment, that either the g8 conferences are criticised for not being legitimate enough to make political decisions, or they are criticised for not being sufficiently clear and precise and - as far as climate protection is concerned - not making sufficiently demand-oriented decisions.
if anyone criticizes the summit in heiligendamm because we are discussing controversial issues on climate protection there, and is afraid of such a controversy, he should not participate in such summits.
i would like to remind you of our own european debate on climate change, which we held until march of this year.
they are worried about migration, climate change and energy, and we have to send the message that we want to equip the european union and its institutions in the best possible way to meet these new political challenges.
the commission has kept in close contact with the russian energy minister, mr kristenko, and we are urging the russian authorities to provide lithuania with full information on the state of the pipeline so that a satisfactory solution can be found.
several members spoke more generally about eu-russia energy relations.
energy is an area which demonstrates our interdependence.
we continue to believe that the energy charter treaty offers a good multilateral framework for international trade and investment in energy.
this can help make eu-russia energy dialogue more operational.
energy will obviously have an important place in the new eu-russia agreement.
as president putin assured us at the last summit, russia respects the key principles of the energy charter treaty and we expect them to be reflected in the new agreement.
our rules focus on the areas where limited amounts of aid can have most added value – competitiveness, the environment, training, regional cohesion, research, development and innovation.
in the energy sector, you are right to be concerned that the facts show serious barriers to competition.
the third problem in this case is that the person responsible, the president of the national energy commission, the spanish regulatory body appointed by the socialist government, has submitted his resignation to the socialist government itself, in protest at what he has considered to be attacks on its independence.
the urbanisation projects in spanish regions at stake involve three main aspects: public procurement, fundamental rights and environmental rules.
thirdly, on environmental legislation: here too the commission can only take legal steps when community law is infringed.
however, as far as the environment is concerned, land development policy as such does not fall within the competence of the union.
the departments under the responsibility of my colleague mr dimas do, however, investigate land development cases where these are alleged to infringe community environmental law.
i can assure you that the commission will continue to see to it that the competent spanish authorities comply with eu environmental rules when implementing urban development plans.
when urban development projects breached environmental directives, for instance those on water or on environmental impact assessment.
the point is that in some autonomous communities in spain, not in the whole country, certain autonomous governments, certain local governments are attacking the environment, attacking the sustainability of citizens' lives and, therefore, violating individual and collective rights.
it is not about houses, but, for example, she is determined to continue to carry out the project of a road before the m-50 and which she now calls the m-61 that she wants to destroy, nothing more and nothing less, than the mountain of el pardo, a place of fundamental ecological importance.
we demand that the commission act with energy and urgency in the face of flagrant violations of the public procurement directive, the water framework directive and the habitats directive by the valencian authorities and other regional governments.
these missions are precisely a contribution to ensuring that the tens of thousands of european citizens who wish to reside in our territory do so with the confidence that their investments are made in a place with clear rules of the game and in an environment which respects the environment.
in recent years, complaints of such abuses have increased from citizens who believe that they have indeed been victims of acts that have affected their property or that have seriously deteriorated the environment in which they live.
today, as i remember these friends and reaffirm my commitment to them, i would like to thank them for their understanding, which is reflected in the text adopted by the committee on the environment and which we will improve tomorrow with some amendments.
the resolution on the community strategy on mercury, adopted in march 2006, says exactly that it is appropriate to examine the possibility of designating almadén for the safe storage of existing stocks of metallic mercury or secondary metallic mercury resulting from the european industry never of mercury products that have become waste thus taking advantage of existing infrastructures, manpower and know-how in situ.
our proposal is very similar in character, as it proposes trade-related measures as an environmental policy instrument.
written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers, in particular by ensuring that the protection of the environment is not restricted to the protection of workers from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, and by ensuring that the protection of the environment is not restricted to the use of chemicals.
moreover, the experience of networks operating in juvenile and urban crime prevention activities proves that all social activities to improve the environment, such as work on public spaces, renovation of squares, lighting, street cleaning, housing policy, facilities and social action services, contribute to an active and long-lasting crime prevention policy for young people.
crime prevention must also provide an effective contribution to community safety policies, which aim to avoid the very emergence of crime risks, in particular by fostering healthy and caring societies that offer young people the necessary social environment for a sense of identity, integration and a purposeful life.
mr president, i am really very pleased to be here today to discuss with you this very important topic of how we can improve consumer confidence in the digital environment.
there are many precise laws, and consumers and businesses may not be sufficiently aware of their rights and duties in the digital environment.
and to solve the interoperability problem, you need open standards that allow for a safer, more open and more reliable environment.
fear in this environment is not compatible with the confidence of both smes and consumers.
- mr president, the committee on legal affairs was asked by the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to give its opinion on the appropriate legal basis for the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a uniform authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the energy package, which is a package of measures to be taken by the member states to ensure that the union's energy supply is not affected by the consequences of the crisis.
the text adopted in the committee on industry, research and energy, agreed with all the political groups, shows that there is clear agreement on most of the issues and we hope that commissioner piebalgs will find our contributions useful in the run-up to the adoption of the third liberalisation package in september.
we are in a period in which a radical change in consumption habits is necessary and to achieve an optimisation of energy resources it is necessary that citizens are fully aware of their real value.
the report also introduces a social chapter, reminding member states that the completion of a competitive energy market must not in any case lead to a weakening of consumer rights and that obligations towards the vulnerable sections of society must remain in place.
it is the majority view of the committee on industry, research and energy that this separation of ownership provides us with an appropriate measure to achieve greater transparency, to secure investments and to guarantee access for new entrants to the market.
madam president, we agree on the need for a genuine internal energy market which is transparent and open and which contributes to reducing costs for citizens and businesses.
the internal market should stimulate efficiency and investment, contribute to security of supply and allow even small firms to access the energy market.
what is needed is to continue along the path we have started, namely the construction of a common energy policy that offers everyone confidence and a clear framework to achieve the objectives proposed by the commission in 2009. finally, given the importance of the social dimension of energy policy, the inclusion of measures to combat energy poverty is to be welcomed.
a better investment climate for interconnection capacity requires a european transmission network for gas and electricity with european medium- and long-term planning and overseen by a possible board of regulators.
we want to prevent considerable amounts of mercury from entering the waste stream.
in this way we will contribute to ensuring a higher level of protection of the environment and human health and to the preservation of the internal market, in accordance with article 95 of the treaty.
mercury pollution, which began as a diffuse local problem long ago, is now recognized as a global, chronic and serious problem.
it is necessary to remind our citizens that these devices can be a danger to health and the environment, since they can easily break and end up in landfills, or, worse still, when they are incinerated, mercury is dispersed into the atmosphere, polluting the air, the soil and the water.
as this house is well aware, the committee on the environment has rejected by a majority, at this second reading, the amendments tabled to allow the manufacture of new mercury barometers to continue.
finally, i would again ask the commission to raise public awareness by organizing information campaigns on the health risks of exposure to mercury and the environmental problems that this substance can cause, since i fear that the public is still not sufficiently informed about its toxicity.
this makes it imperative to focus all our attention on the sustainability of the marine aquatic environment, especially when all the alarms have been sounded worldwide for some time now about the deterioration of the environment in general and climate change in particular.
we believe that, as with air pollution and the ozone hole, we have little time left to act and reverse the current trend.
we have therefore proposed that the timetable for drawing up the action plans for the new marine strategy be adapted as a matter of urgency, bringing them into line with other important union programmes, such as those financed by the erdf, the cohesion fund and also the agricultural policy, since there are also agricultural activities which end up dumping waste into the sea.
we must improve training and information at all levels and disseminate best practice in pollution control and control.
finally, we are in favour of applying the 'polluter pays' principle to the marine sector and of creating a community fund for the rebuilding and conservation of marine flora and fauna, based on the contributions of all industrial activities - energy, tourism, recreation and all kinds of activities - that pollute our seas.
activities essential to achieving the objectives of the lisbon agenda are carried out in the aquatic environment and the sea also represents other less commercial values, but which are linked to the identity and the deeper culture of our peoples.
it has struck a good balance between the essential objectives, such as modal shift, in favour of modes which are still underdeveloped and have great environmental advantages, such as railways and waterways, but at the same time it has been able to integrate them into a new concept of co-modality which has given it the most acceptable touch of realism for all the actors in the sector and which has reduced many of the pressures which prevented us from moving forward with more reasonable approaches.
we also appreciate your support for the green paper on urban transport and finally we thank you for your understanding of the need to update your report on climate change by including the latest council proposal on reducing co2 emissions.
but we also agree that it must continue to make efforts to implement the agreements, to open its markets and to create a climate of openness to investment.
we must do this in a regular way and, moreover, clearly demand reciprocity, the removal of barriers to access to european products, adequate protection of intellectual property rights and patents, full respect for the standards required in social terms - which i consider fundamental - equal respect for environmental criteria and safety also in goods produced in china.
if we really want to tackle globalisation and address common concerns on sustainable development, climate change, competitiveness and human rights in the world, the union should use to the fullest its great potential to act collectively.
furthermore, it reinforces the legal basis to deal with the challenges of energy policy and climate change.
together, we should use this window of opportunity; together, we should engage in this new process without any delay and with all our energy.
because what really worries me, mr president, is the climate of suspicion and mistrust in europe that i saw at the last european council.
regarding the mainstreaming of cross-cutting issues such as the promotion of human rights, gender equality, democracy, good governance and environmental sustainability, of course we intend to do this.
and we are still not quite clear how we can achieve that 20% target by 2009. commissioner, it is very important that all the actors involved are consulted and that horizontal policies such as the promotion of human rights, gender equality, good governance, the rights of children and especially also of indigenous peoples, environmental sustainability and the fight against diseases such as aids are also adequately taken into account in all programmes and for all countries.
finally, i think it is essential that the commission should use the solidarity fund as a matter of urgency when this type of natural disaster occurs, because its economic, social and environmental repercussions are terrible and solidarity is needed at that time.
it is the condensed form of the great problems of our time: the conflict between centres and peripheries, ethnic conflicts, the cynical exploitation, for political ends, of rivalries between groups, and perhaps the first war caused by climate change in the world.
another key focus for this approach to logistics is climate change and current energy needs.
in march of this year, the european council set the target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption, whereas in reality we are failing to meet the much more modest targets we committed ourselves to in kyoto.
we are now discussing freight transport logistics in europe as a key element for sustainable mobility, something that is essential for our growth and development; and given the significant growth expected for freight transport until 2020, we cannot ignore logistics, as it is a necessary tool to increase accessibility, efficiency and safety - as well as sustainability - of freight transport.
we must promote the co-modality of the different modes of transport, not forgetting the motorways of the sea and inland waterways, and above all integrate all real costs, including environmental costs, into the price of their use.
i refer to the cases regarding the request for annulment of the framework decision concerning the application of criminal law with respect to the protection of the environment and ship source pollution.
the next item is the report by alessandro foglietta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a european union strategy to help member states reduce alcohol-related harm (2007/2005 (ini)) (a6-0303/2007).
it is a fact that prices for dairy products have gone up substantially since the beginning of the year, in particular as a response to the market and, as rightly mentioned, not as a response to the increased production of bio-energy.
we should not let our policy decisions be dictated by short-term developments within the dairy sector, and throughout the next 12 months we will have an excellent opportunity to discuss ways and means to make the dairy sector move forward in a sustainable way.
written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on - the oral question to the council on the objectives of the conference of the parties to the convention on the fight against desertification in madrid from 3 to 14 september 2007, by miroslav ouzký, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0049/2007 - b6-0140/2007), and - the oral question to the commission on the objectives of the conference of the parties to the convention on the fight against desertification in madrid from 3 to 14 september 2007, by miroslav ouzký, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0050/2007 - b6-0312/2007).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you for your references to the portuguese presidency's programme on the environment, and in particular to the questions of drought and desertification.
this is indeed a priority of the portuguese presidency, and i would like to highlight the results in this area achieved at the informal council of environment ministers recently held in portugal.
i think, however, that they are very interesting and important, and i would therefore like to draw attention to these conclusions, particularly as regards combating drought and the relationship between drought and the environment, and the measures that we can and should take to deal with this problem, which is a growing problem.
the council considers it important to reach consensus on an improved monitoring system of the convention based on standards for the conservation, management and sustainable use of drylands.
the council of the european union considers that the challenges of desertification, climate change and biodiversity are complementary and should be addressed in a coordinated manner by relevant policies in order to develop synergies and increase their effectiveness.
the convention was developed as the main tool to contribute to the objective of sustainable land use, in order to fight against hunger and poverty.
because desertification policy would require integrated systems and an approach from all points of view and, unfortunately, administrations work separately: agriculture does not work with the environment, water policy works on its side and, really, the problems of desertification - for example, of the large area that is being abandoned, without activities, in the case of the mediterranean - are extraordinary.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, according to the united nations environment programme, desertification threatens a quarter of the world's land, 250 million people and the livelihoods of over a billion people in 100 countries, due to the decline in agricultural and livestock productivity.
in this connection, we must also remember that desertification contributes, as the previous speakers have said, to climate change, because it causes soil degradation and vegetation loss, which is linked to increased emissions, and it would therefore be very interesting to support reforestation policies to restore and change the conditions of arid areas.
unfortunately, in the south-east of spain we are well aware of this problem, and i propose that the observatory could be located in the soil thematic centre of the european environment agency in barcelona, as proposed by the minister for the environment, cristina narbona, or in the centre for mediterranean environmental studies or the desertification research centre, both located in valencia, and which have concentrated their multidisciplinary activities in thematic areas related to desertification and where there is a wide range of international experience.
i believe that the community institutions must be more involved in the field of desertification as a matter of urgency, so that the european union can take the kind of leadership it has been developing in the fight against climate change.
i would like to conclude by saying that combating this problem is a great challenge, not only from the environmental point of view but also from the point of view of people, of human rights: many of them flee their land because of hunger and poverty caused, in large part, by desertification.
i believe that the growing awareness that governments, politicians in general, civil society, our public opinion are becoming aware of the issues related to climate change, the environmental challenges we face and, in particular, the issues related to combating desertification, climate change, the problems of water scarcity, will help us to give a new impetus and a new impetus, with confidence, with optimism, in tackling the serious environmental problems that we are increasingly facing.
we also have reason for some confidence and some optimism when we see the council of the union making important commitments, i would even say extremely important commitments, and showing great international leadership when it announces measures to combat climate change and proposes them as the norm, as targets to be achieved by the entire international community.
this was indeed one of the points discussed and debated by the ministers for the environment meeting informally in portugal, and it can be concluded from their debate that they consider the creation of this european drought observatory to be an important measure, both to draw attention to the problems connected with drought and to build the necessary model for the measures which have to be, or can be, implemented to combat drought.
this is therefore, as i say, a measure which the ministers for the environment are looking forward to with interest and commitment.
i have little more to add to what i said in my first reply on this issue, and in particular to reiterate our commitment that the community acquis will be applied in full and wherever necessary when environmental issues are at stake.
the first thing i would like to stress, as the commission itself acknowledges and as this parliament has expressed on numerous occasions, is the utter failure of the community fisheries management system which, throughout its many years of existence, has neither ensured the sustainability of resources nor supported an efficient and profitable fisheries sector.
in this context, the commission's communication opts for maximum sustainable yield as a benchmark for long-term fishing, a theoretical model that seeks to combine the most efficient exploitation of a species, while ensuring biological sustainability.
the problem is that the maximum sustainable yield - which as an intellectual and theoretical concept may be beyond reproach - has revealed many contradictions in its practical application and, in fact, is now widely considered obsolete by much of the scientific community.
it is clear that we are not criticizing the commission's intention here to impose a new management model but its inability to explain to us how it will overcome the difficulties of putting it into practice and of overcoming the pitfalls that the very maximum sustainable yield contains in its very formulation.
among them, we know that maximum sustainable yield requires long series of reliable and accurate scientific data, whereas for the vast majority of species, such a degree of certainty is not possible.
on the other hand, the model was created on the basis of exploitation of a single stock, whereas the vast majority of community fisheries are multi-specific, which means that many of them are overexploited or under-exploited, which is clearly contrary to the very definition of maximum sustainable yield.
it is also not good for pelagic species, and we also know today that the state of populations is influenced by other factors, such as recruitment failures or environmental factors, which can lead to erroneous definitions of maximum sustainable yield.
what is certain is that strict application of the maximum sustainable yield will in the short term result in a reduction, sometimes drastic, of fishing opportunities and therefore of the activity, income and employment of the community fleet.
madam president, allow me to thank all my colleagues for their contributions and to ask for the adoption of a report in which the committee on fisheries would ask the european commission to first clear up all these uncertainties before introducing a military version of a model whose effectiveness for many fisheries is scientifically and economically in question to some species of great economic importance; to first seriously tackle a clear fisheries management system with an ecosystem approach, and then decide on the adaptation of the reference points and the model chosen, whether based on the msy or another, and not without first - i insist on this - accompanying it with a socioeconomic analysis of the repercussions of its implementation and the measures to counteract its impact, all of which are issues of great concern to our sectors and to us ourselves right now.
in this sense, i think, commissioner, that one of the main problems raised by this communication is that, by seeking to act on resources by restricting fishing activities alone, without obliging the rest of the economic actors with activities linked to the marine ecosystem, it loses - and we all lose - political legitimacy, especially because the commission's directorate for fisheries is also responsible for maritime affairs.
the european council of march 2007 adopted an agreement for the european union to generate energy from renewable sources in its total energy consumption.
the report calls on the commission to submit a proposal for a legislative framework for renewable energy and stresses the importance of creating and implementing renewable energy action plans at community and national level.
these plans should encourage investment, innovation and research in all sectors related to clean and low-emission sources, and to do this we need more investment in r & d & i to make renewable sources as competitive as conventional energy sources.
subsidiarity should also be used to set sectoral targets for renewable energy.
we do support calls for increased efforts by the member states to research, support, reduce administrative burdens and simplify procedures to facilitate the development of renewable energy sources.
and in defence of the internal market we think that a harmonised, effective and efficient support system must be a long-term objective to ensure a more efficient use of renewable energy technologies.
we call on the commission to ensure that any proposal for a framework directive on renewable energy also contains measures to promote heating and cooling from renewable energy sources, which are the least developed so far.
we also welcome the commission's proposal to promote biofuels and other renewable energy sources for transport, and we call on the commission and the member states to make a greater effort to develop second generation biofuels in order to avoid many of the tensions that are being created by the shortage of raw materials.
it is time for renewable energy sources and only a renewable energy boom, together with much greater energy efficiency, can help us deal with the climate change crisis and the energy supply crisis.
this report rightly calls on the commission to provide a legislative framework for the promotion of heating and air conditioning from renewable sources.
it calls for a fairer energy market for renewables, with a stronger emissions trading scheme: internalizing the costs of polluting sources and eliminating the massive, perverse subsidies that fossil fuels receive.
it wants to promote offshore wind, emphasises solar energy, high temperature, and calls for more research funding for energy storage and the adaptation of grids to renewables.
the commission is also calling for an action plan to promote green building, since 40% of the energy consumed in europe is in the housing and building sector.
and we don't even know if the energy balance is positive.
fossil fuels are running out, they come from politically unstable parts of our planet and are, to date, a significant source of co2 emissions, and our energy needs are increasing.
to meet them and to ensure a secure supply, we need to find new, massive sources of energy that are not polluting and that make us less dependent on the outside world.
in this context, the progress being made in renewable energy is of particular importance.
nevertheless, the limited legislation in place has been effective in driving more sustainable development in many of our member states, even though in such important areas as heating and cooling, there is still no legislation at all.
in order to meet the binding 20% target, it is also essential, as the report rightly points out, that electricity from renewable energy sources has better access conditions to the grid.
open, non-discriminatory, efficient and sufficiently developed access to support large amounts of electricity from renewable energy sources.
i certainly share the rapporteur's view that separating ownership of the transmission network from production would be the best guarantee of non-discrimination in access to the network for renewable energy producers.
it is also important to speed up the implementation of projects of european interest for the transeuropean energy networks.
and they must also make every effort to ensure that energy from renewable sources is affordable, so that the achievement of the objectives set out in the legislation does not impose a burden on consumers or industries as a result of an exorbitant increase in energy prices.
mr president, the decision of the heads of state and government to approve a mandatory target of 20% for renewable energy in our energy mix by 2020 has had a major impact worldwide and marked a milestone in the community's climate change and energy policies.
the objective of 20% of our energy mix coming from renewable sources will only be cost effective and only viable if two conditions are met: that the price of a barrel of oil remains high and that the price of a tonne of co2 is appropriate.
with these figures, the cost-benefit calculations are not as attractive as we would like, so in the next review of the emissions trading framework we must take this into account if we want the industry and consumers to receive the appropriate signals.
there is no doubt that diversification of clean, low-emission sources must remain a priority in energy policy.
mr president, i think we can almost all agree that the european union must respond to three fundamental challenges: firstly, the depletion and increasing cost of conventional energy sources; secondly, of course, we must contain the increase in dependence on energy imports, and thirdly, of course, we must also help to stop climate change.
energy sources can clearly be a very important contribution to meeting these challenges.
of course, there is a commitment to reach 20% of total consumption from renewable sources by 2020 and it is clear and obvious that member states must be free to choose the most appropriate renewable energy sources according to their own situation.
firstly, renewable energy sources are not incompatible with other sources of energy which can contribute to the stability of supply but which must be the priority alternative.
other energy sources, such as nuclear, are not disposable, but have not yet found solutions to overcome their persistent problems, such as waste management and high construction costs.
the use of biofuels, on the other hand, should be based on a high degree of prudence and sustainability criteria.
otherwise, serious environmental impacts and negative social consequences may result.
there is also a great potential for the development of renewable energy in the field of new housing or infrastructure construction.
finally, i would like to refer to the social dimension of energy policy, in the sense that the introduction of renewable energy must not lead to price increases which leave heating or electricity out of reach of consumers and, in particular, of the most vulnerable sections of society, who suffer particularly when energy prices increase.
in this sector, which is safe and sustainable as we know it and as we claim it, we must remain safe and sustainable.
today, brazil is becoming an international player with a strong weight on important global issues like climate change, the fight against poverty, peace, security and multilateralism.
an agreement which, in addition to its strictly commercial commercial dimension, also has an institutional political chapter, as well as a chapter aimed at promoting sustainable economic and social development.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i think it is clear that brazil, by its size, its population, its natural resources and, above all, its role on the international scene - i want to think of the role it is playing in reforming the united nations system, the role it is playing in the world trade organisation, the role it is playing in the whole issue of climate change or the debate on energy resources - fully justifies the communication presented by the commission in the sense of enjoying a strategic partnership between the european union and this great country that is brazil.
the committee on petitions is constantly hearing petitions from citizens at local level who are asking the european union for help and protection precisely to solve problems which can no longer be solved at local level because they are issues of global resolution, such as environmental issues, such as security problems, etc.
the following is the report by mr paasilinna, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european institute of technology (com (2006) 0604 - c6-0355/2006 - 2006/0197 (cod)).
we've also eliminated one of the main issues of life in general - climate change - which was going to be one of the issues, of the first quid, has been eliminated.
madam president, mr saryusz-wolski deserves our congratulations because his report clearly sets out the essential points which the union must take into account in order to establish a genuine common external energy policy: reciprocity with exporting countries, the need to coordinate our energy diplomacy better at european level and the importance of achieving an integrated and competitive internal market.
in the field of external energy policy it is crucial to remember that a business which controls its market from generation to final sale, such as electricity, is not the same as another whose output depends on factors largely outside its control, such as gas.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
recent economic and social imbalances, international conflicts and climate change will increase the flows of illegal migrants into the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the institutional silence on responsibility, whether active or passive, whether by action or negligence, whether by conviction or by fear of creating problems in the face of pressure from an allied country, is one of the shameful aspects of our present democratic environment and involves all those who play a leading role in it.
and i can say, mr president, as i have already said, that environmental issues, and especially those relating to climate change, are on the agenda of the presidency and on the agenda of the council as a priority issue.
we have a big challenge ahead of us from bali, already at the end of this year, and then the whole process which we hope can be completed in 2009 on new targets for co2 emissions.
the necessary measures must be taken to avoid this discrimination, and the children concerned must be provided with special, early, intensive and multidisciplinary treatment, preferably in their usual school environment.
we will not exclude anyone and on this basis, as i say, we are confident in the sense of the need to close a debate that has perhaps been present for too long and also in the sense of the urgency of creating a spirit of construction, of unity, of positivity in order to deal with the many other problems that we have to face in the future and that have been mentioned here, climate change, energy issues, immigration issues, issues of our own internal reforms that we need to carry out in order to deal with the more general problems of globalisation.
of course, it reflects the political situation and the difficult political game that comes after a long period of actually having discussed how we can adapt our decision-making procedures to enlarge the european union of 27 member states; how we can actually incorporate also the new issues that have emerged lately, like climate change and energy; how we can be more open and effective.
that said, i would like to congratulate the commissioner and the commission, both for this communication and for all the efforts they have made over the past year in consulting the parties concerned, to try to develop an integrated maritime policy for the whole of the european union, taking into account the importance of the marine environment and the constant attacks it suffers from human activity.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether the military sector, whose activities sometimes also interfere with and affect the marine environment, will be given any consideration in community policy in order to avoid environmental damage.
i also believe that it is extremely important to strengthen all the intelligent systems which, in this area and starting with the cesar traffic management system, will help us not only to improve traffic but also, as far as possible, to reduce the environmental impact.
the following is the joint debate on the report by christa klaß, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for community action to achieve the sustainable use of pesticides (com (2006) 373 c6-0246/2006 2006/0132 (cod)) (a6-0347/2007); the report by irena belohorská, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides (2007/2006 (ini)) (a6-0291/2007); and the report by hiltrud breyer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market (com (2006) 0373 c6-0246/2006 2006/0132 (cod)) (a6-038635/2006 (cod)) (a6-0613634/2007).
however, the result achieved in the committee on the environment not only fails to take account of this objective of greater harmonization, but unjustifiably radicalizes the measures to protect the consumer and the environment.
without a risk analysis it is impossible to know the impact of these substances on health or the environment.
mr president, the own-initiative report we are voting on tomorrow is the third and last one drawn up by this house, which completes parliament's response to the energy review presented by the commission at the beginning of the year.
fossil fuels and nuclear energy will continue to make up the bulk of our energy mix for a long time to come and, despite the ambitious targets we have set for renewables, their contribution will not be truly significant for several decades.
we should therefore not slow down efforts in research, development and innovation in conventional sources, as meeting our commitments in the areas of climate change, security of supply and competitiveness implies achieving a more sustainable use of these sources.
the result of the vote in committee was excellent, as it highlighted the progress made in the field of carbon dioxide capture, in improving energy efficiency in electricity generation, in the contribution that synthetic fuels can make to transport, and in the competitiveness of the nuclear sector.
a group in this house has tabled almost 40 amendments to the nuclear part to change all objective and realistic references to it to references to renewable sources.
mr president, despite the ambitious targets we have set ourselves, we all seem to agree that conventional energy sources will remain an important part of our energy mix.
nuclear energy will therefore also continue to play a relevant role, because it remains necessary to ensure security and stability in the supply of many countries.
in this sense, it is logical that research should be carried out in the areas where its weaknesses are most evident - such as safety or the treatment of its waste - but it must be remembered that the report clearly confirms that the nuclear option is the exclusive competence of the member states, as mr reul has, incidentally, mentioned at the outset.
however, it seems that some people want europe to rely almost exclusively on nuclear energy for its future, making the development of renewable energy, efficiency gains or research dependent on this source.
we are very aware of the reality, but we must of course have clear priorities and in this connection it must be noted that the importance of the strategic technological plan for energy - which the commission should present to us shortly - is a very important element.
the priority objective, we believe, should be to reduce the costs of renewable energy, to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, industry and transport and to advance low-carbon technologies.
these are the objectives on which europe and the member states must give political priority and on which efforts must be concentrated to build an energy policy for the future.
i am pleased that most of you share my view that taxation policy has a major role to play in attaining many of the eu’s policy objectives, and in particular growth, employment, competitiveness and sustainability.
finally, i would like to point out that the confirmation of the union's participation in the 2008 international exhibition 'water and sustainable development' in zaragoza is a good decision and a good opportunity to bring citizens closer to the european policies we need.
we will report on developments in the european union, in particular on the progress made in drafting the new reform treaty, which we have just approved in lisbon, and on the package of energy liberalisation measures proposed by the commission and adopted on 9 september.
in terms of the priorities for the summit, we intend to agree on the launch of the early warning mechanism in the energy sector, which was agreed in principle at the last summit in samara.
given the interdependence between the european union and russia in the field of energy, it is essential to increase trust and strengthen mutual cooperation.
we will therefore stress the objectives and principles that govern the union in our energy partnership, namely reciprocity, transparency, openness and the creation of an effective legal and regulatory framework.
in our view, the principles of the energy charter treaty and the text on global energy security adopted by the g8 in st petersburg should be reflected in the new eu-russia agreement which will be legally binding and which will replace the current epa.
we will also urge russia to avoid selective use of accompanying policies, such as environment or taxation, to hinder existing investments or create hidden obstacles to new investments.
it is therefore important to find a satisfactory solution that creates the confidence needed to further develop the partnership between the union and russia in the field of energy.
our president has already mentioned energy.
our president has spoken about energy culture and also investments so i need not add anything here.
i think we must continue to work, as the commissioner said, to build up this strategic partnership with russia, but the climate will depend more on the temperature of russia than on that of the european union.
we hope that this will help europeans to understand that their destiny is closely linked to the destiny of africa, that we understand that the development of africa is one of the conditions for our prosperity, that we cannot control migration flows or have a secure energy supply without a strong partnership with africa.
as a second comment on this subject, i would remind you that the european union is also taking the lead in this process, perhaps not with the energy that many members would like, certainly with difficulties, but nevertheless with some optimism.
but it would also have very serious consequences in terms of health and the environment.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the rapporteurs, mrs gutiérrez-cortines and mr prodi, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the other committees for their contribution to the first reading.
the commission's proposal for a thematic soil protection strategy is the result of work begun in 1998 at the initiative of the german ministry of the environment.
climate change and some improper land management practices are putting our lands at risk.
the identification of the extent of degradation and the subsequent development of methods to ensure sustainable land use are direct applications of the knowledge-based approach which parliament rightly considers valuable.
the commission's environmental impact assessment estimates that there are some 3.5 million sites in the european union that are likely to have been contaminated.
we also have to take into account that there is a direct link between climate change and soil.
for example, according to recent research published in the prestigious international scientific journal nature, in the last 25 years in the united kingdom alone, the soil has released 13 million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere each year, an amount equivalent to adding 5 million cars each year.
moreover, the capacity of soil to absorb carbon and convert it into useful soil organic matter has not yet been fully exploited.
the policy, by creating a framework for sustainable land use and by taking measures at source, will prevent further degradation of land and preserve its vital social, environmental and economic functions.
thirdly, in order to achieve a high level of environmental protection, it is necessary to agree on a consistent approach to be followed by all member states in the identification of contaminated sites.
and this is not common in an environmental policy which is going to generate, shall we say, a new european policy and open up a new road.
and we have to recognize that sustainability is a process that has to have clear goals.
this policy of flexibility also applies to the recognition that given the climate and conditions of each country, they must be allowed to agree with their citizens to carry out these policies.
in a europe of 27 we must learn that environmental policy cannot be made by judicially enforcing it.
another innovation in this directive is that it addresses climate change in relation to soil for the first time.
we welcome the commission's proposal, since it is certainly intended to protect the soil and preserve its capacity to continue to develop its environmental, economic, social and cultural functions, all of which are essential for human activity.
despite the exaggerated resistance of some sectors to this directive, it is clear that soil is a vital, essentially non-renewable resource and that it is undergoing increasing environmental pressure in which human action has a significant responsibility.
this directive is, of course, based on the precautionary principle and preventive action, on the principle that environmental damage must be rectified at its source and that the polluter pays.
soil, as many of us have said, is a non-renewable and therefore limited natural resource which fulfils many important ecological and economic functions and is the basis for virtually all human activities.
we would also like the commission to start presenting precise guidelines on how it intends to apply the maximum sustainable yield model to community fisheries, in particular for multi-species fisheries, and we also believe that it would be important to present specific legislative proposals on the eco-labelling of fishery products, which will have a major impact on the traceability of fishery products and provide guarantees to prevent the consumption and sale of products from illegal fishing.
we need this directive in this year of equal opportunities for all because it must make us see that discrimination is not only a social, moral and political mistake, but also a waste of human resources.
i wish my colleagues every success in their work on the european economic area agreement and future prospects for the area, energy issues and climate change in relation to space, and in their discussions with commissioner borg on the european union's maritime policy, which are scheduled for the agenda of their debates.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, scientists believe that climate change caused the first major migration from africa to europe almost two million years ago.
in our era, although climate change may have an impact, poverty and lack of freedom and opportunities are still the main reasons that lead many migrants to risk their lives to improve their lives on our continent.
they cover a wide range of policy areas, although very often they relate to spatial planning and environmental issues, they concern virtually all member states and their reach reach reaches broad sections of civil society.
we have already begun to work on a policy document which will put all this into practice in the environmental sector, which, as i understand from your report, is one of the areas you are most concerned about.
for example, last year, 2005, there were 1 032, and 1 016 in 2006. approximately one third were not admitted to the proceedings and it should be noted that the petitioners' main concerns remain, fundamentally, environmental and the free movement of goods, persons and capital.
secondly, i would like to take advantage of the fact that commissioner dimas is here with us and, since a large part of the petitions are environmental and since many of these petitions come from spain, i would like to see how we can improve the way in which these petitions are dealt with.
but we are concerned that the commission, as i said before, is coming too late to many cases where there is also a flagrant breach of environmental law.
we are also concerned about the implementation of the environmental impact assessment directive and also the strategic assessment directive, which is not being implemented correctly in many countries and in particular in spain, where projects are being scrapped so as not to have to apply the directive.
madam president, one of the most unenforced directives is indeed the directive on environmental assessments, which are mandatory for all types of construction and projects.
in spain we have had very negative consequences along the coast, very aggressive urbanisation, and right now we have a regasification project in the heart of the estuary of el ferrol, of great community interest, of the natura 2000 network, and it has no environmental impact study.
it is the only regasificadora in spain that will not have an environmental impact study, creating a problem of insecurity and violating clear directives.
the lisbon agenda is really the mark: completing the internal market, cleaning up public finances, reforming, modernising our labour market, committing to environmental reform, renewable energy and, in short, opening up europe is really about making more social cohesion in europe.
and, in particular, there are two very important elements of challenge where we have to be very active: not only in the field of trade and in the field of technological development, it is in the universal defence of human rights, especially the rights of workers - and there is the international labour organization - and then there is also the necessary negotiation and the necessary policy to deal with climate change.
our words, the words of the union, thus joined those of so many others, reiterating the importance of restoring the constitution and civil order, guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary, freedom of the media, the release of all political prisoners, journalists and human rights defenders, and demanding that the necessary conditions be created for the legislative elections to take place as planned, that is, in january 2008. we have no doubt that only in an environment of full democratic credibility can the stability and development of any nation be guaranteed.
the union hopes that the current climate of uncertainty will be resolved quickly and peacefully and calls on president muscharraf to honour his commitment to remove his military uniform and to relinquish his post as army chief.
the vote will take place on thursday 15 november 2007. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on - the oral question to the council on the strategy of the council for the bali conference on climate change (cop 13 and cop/mop 3) by guido sacconi, on behalf of the temporary committee on climate change (o-0057/2007 - b6-0379/2007), and - the oral question to the commission on the strategy of the council for the bali conference on climate change (cop 13 and cop/mop 3) by guido sacconi, on behalf of the temporary committee on climate change (o-0058/2007 - b6-0380/2007).
madam president, an average per capita emissions target has been proposed for the whole world, but beware, what may be socially just may end up being ecologically impossible.
we need to integrate countries like china and india, we need to integrate equity into environmental goals.
this external climate protection could ensure a european union response to the growth of emissions in our own products coming from countries in the south and this money could be collected and then invested in clean technologies and in the south.
i remember that throughout my attendance at these monthly sessions, the issue of climate change and the preparation of the european union for the bali conference has been a recurring theme.
this shows the importance that this parliament rightly attaches to the subject, and this morning, in connection with our debate on globalisation, the question of climate change was again on the table.
we have set ourselves emissions reduction targets that are unmatched and unmatched anywhere in the world and we have also made significant efforts in the area of energy saving, in the area of investments in renewable energy and so on.
there is an emerging consensus that global efforts are needed to win the battle against climate change and that bali must set out the process and content of the post-2012 climate agreement.
the eu-china and the eu-india summit, as well as the eu-asia summit, all this november, are the next steps to generate even more convergence and political momentum for the post-2012 international climate agreement.
the international carbon market partnership (icap) with us states and canadian provinces, which i signed on behalf of the european union in lisbon on 29 october, brings together partners who are actively pursuing the implementation of carbon markets through mandatory cap and trade systems.
i have to underline that without the continuous support of the european parliament we would not have had an energy and climate-change package earlier this year and without your support we do not have any hope of achieving a better result in bali.
in those sectors which are prepared to do so, the aim would be, in the years ahead, to share policy areas which can ensure the development of convergence and synergies in key sectors such as energy, transport networks, intercultural dialogue, the environment or education.
they are essential to us in essential matters like security, immigration, energy.
however, as i mentioned at the time, during the discussion in the committee on fisheries, and on the basis of the reports that many scientists, environmental organizations and even parts of the sector are preparing, i think the title of the report should be changed.
let us strengthen the european border agency, improve our cooperation on the ground and disrupt the mafias who are exploiting the vital urgency of these men and women to get out of their environment of misery and frustration.
we are already doing so in the fight against climate change, with our commitment to reduce by 20% the emissions of greenhouse gases by 2020. we can and must set a trend, we can be a benchmark and facilitate a new consensus in the negotiations which will begin in bali next december.
we have a lot to do in the energy field.
spain is calling for a real energy policy, with a transparent single market, guaranteed supplies and lower environmental costs.
we believe that there can be no credible european energy policy without promoting a well-articulated system of interconnections between all the member states.
sustainability has become the cornerstone of our growth model.
we managed to reduce our emissions in 2006 for the first time, even with such strong economic growth.
mr zapatero, i am very pleased to see you here and to hear you give importance to the challenge of climate change.
at the same time, words have to be accompanied by consequential political decisions and the palpable truth is that spain is still the climate black sheep with the figures on kyoto in hand.
this calls for a major response in terms of renewable energy; it requires a policy with taxation.
i am very pleased with the proposal that was made, but it was wrong, about the extra cent on petrol and at the same time i would like spain to lead a proposal for an ecological taxation at european level in the face of the flood of foreign products and imports of polluting products.
we would like to see the substantial subsidies to coal, both at european and spanish level, eliminated, tax measures taken seriously to reduce spain's skyrocketing energy consumption and infrastructure investments directed towards rail and other public transport rather than motorways.
on a more positive note, i would like to congratulate you most sincerely on spain's abandonment of nuclear energy.
this gradual abandonment is very important and i ask other european leaders to take note of this fact, because nuclear energy is very expensive, very dangerous and very slow to build, and it is not a response to climate change.
how do you propose to convince those who, being europeans, are afraid to get on board the european ship because they do not see it as safe, or because they do not know where it is going, or because they do not perceive either the social europe or the environmentally sustainable europe, or the internationally responsible europe or the transparent, democratic and people's europe, of which we so often speak?
i also have to tell you that they contrast their commitments today and here with the environment - which can only deserve praise - with the harsh reality of the facts, because we have just had breakfast with a report from the european commission which points to our country as the one that is furthest away from the objectives set out in the kyoto protocol.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today, with globalisation, our economy, the progress of the community and the well-being of our citizens need more than ever to be supported by an effective, efficient, economical and, above all, sustainable transport system.
now, with our roads at risk of collapse and our environment in critical condition due to pollution, we turn our eyes to the railway as the hope of the future to meet our needs for inland mobility.
we are faced with the challenge of achieving a european railway that is competitive, cost-effective, sustainable and safe - in short, a real alternative to other modes of transport, thus effecting the modal shift.
we have never gone this far, but we know - and we must say it out loud, because we have also supported product placement, and we have done so in our heart and soul - that if we want free television from the point of view of the viewers - it is never free, but it is for the viewer - and if we do not want television, which is free as it is, to be paid for only by taxes, only by public finances, it must have the means to finance itself in a competitive environment.
in that context, it is worth noting that the recent electoral observation mission sent by the european union to the last presidential election in venezuela considered that the electoral process in general complied with international standards and national legislation and underlined the peaceful environment in which the elections were held.
on the other hand, the consultation is being held in a climate of violence and tension that has even cost the lives of students, who also reject the project.
in this environment, for example, my many fellow galicians are leaving at an average rate of about a thousand people a year since chávez came to power.
today, it is enough to treat an area well in agricultural and ecological terms.
the same applies to the search for answers to problems affecting both europe and africa, such as the effects of climate change, the management of energy resources or migration flows.
the first question is: there is no doubt that any manipulation of vehicles which results in noise emissions exceeding the permitted level is prohibited.
as far as noise emissions in rail transport are concerned, my direct responsibility is limited to active noise control, i.e.
the question: what do we do to the vehicles to avoid noise emissions?
i know from germany, for example, about the modern technology of the transrapid, that noise pollution plays a very important role.
however, increasing investment activity – and in particular the switch to more sustainable energy production – definitely plays a part too.
therefore, the third energy package makes wide-ranging proposals to remedy those structural problems, in particular by proposing ownership unbundling of the transmission system operators.
the commission’s proposals for the third energy package therefore contain a number of measures which will strengthen the role and rights of consumers.
by increasing consumer awareness and rights with respect to their energy consumption, the commission is providing the tools for a functioning retail market.
madam president, based on the broad agreement on the need to adapt transport to the challenge of climate change and other impacts in order to make it as sustainable as possible, since only in this way will the means of transport be competitive in the european union and globally, the eurovignette has been a useful first instrument to tackle the problems of congestion, pollution, etc., and offers sufficient and quite diverse modulation in its application to different heavy vehicles.
when will we have indicators to show progress on social and environmental issues so that we can really assess the results of lisbon?
shortly before, an energy man had beaten a young woman in front of the television surveillance cameras in the barcelona metro because she was an immigrant, because of the color of her skin, "he said", without knowing that she was being filmed and without knowing that her images would later go around the world.
the openness of europe’s own markets to china will not be politically sustainable if this action does not occur.
but, beyond this agreement, it will undoubtedly be necessary to continue to act on other fronts to ensure that european industry can compete on fair and reciprocal terms, for example by making progress in the indication of the mark of origin - despite the difficulties you have mentioned - or by promoting labour, social and environmental conditions in the negotiation of trade agreements.
if europe wants to take a lead on climate change and the environment, it cannot rely on regulatory policies, taxation and the judicialization of environmental policy alone.