in the last few days, there has been a lot of interesting information coming out of davos about the extent of climate change and the potential for catastrophic effects.
i was at the same event in davos 12 years ago, and i have to admit, there was no talk of climate change.
we need to set binding and ambitious targets in europe for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i am convinced that corporate social responsibility will promote sustainable development and also better implementation of the lisbon strategy on issues such as a more rational use of natural resources, improving the performance of innovation, reducing poverty and, of course, better respect for human rights.
csr should also act as a complementary tool for industrial and restructuring management, and should be such as to include new areas such as lifelong learning, equal opportunities, social inclusion, sustainable development and, why not, ethics.
standards that endanger seafarers and the environment are not 21st century.
europe's energy policy is out of date.
this is a historic opportunity for europe to break free from the outdated thinking that has shaped our energy policy.
instead of replacing the physically obsolete fifth with new generators that are morally obsolete, we dared under the german presidency to commit ourselves to replacing it with renewable energy.
but what i like even more is replacing energy waste with sustainable consumption.
energy and security go hand in hand.
every kilowatt we don't have to buy energy from undemocratic regimes for is a contribution to world security.
europe needs a common energy policy and a constitutional agreement today.
exchanges in this field should help to build a better climate in which the cultures and traditions of minority populations are respected.
in conclusion, i am glad that all three institutions share the view that european unity and eu leadership continue to be needed to achieve a sustainable settlement that produces a democratic and multi-ethnic kosovo and assures continued regional stability.
there are questions such as the early alert system for energy, which russia agreed to in principle and which we now have to work on, and finally a sort of dialogue on the investment climate and on investment in general.
we therefore welcome the opportunities offered by the 10th framework programme for the construction of a motorway, but a good road does not justify abandoning all environmental requirements.
the baltic sea is also highly vulnerable to overfishing, as its limited exchange with the atlantic ocean means that it lacks the capacity to absorb large amounts of pollution and that it is very slow to recover from overfishing.
we had a long debate in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, particularly on overfishing and illegal fishing for cod in the baltic sea.
i regret that the committee on fisheries has not taken account of this one fundamental point of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in the management of cod stocks in the baltic sea.
in response to the question raised by the honourable member concerning the negotiations between the european union and russia on quotas and their future management, the council of the european union would like to point out that while the common fisheries policy covers, inter alia, the conservation, management and exploitation of living aquatic resources, council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 of 20 december 2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy defines living aquatic resources as living available and accessible marine species, including anadromous and catadromous species, during their life at sea.
when it comes to the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks, estonia, a member of the european union, is doing everything in its power to preserve the stocks in peipus.
five years ago, at the sustainable development summit in johannesburg, we committed to conserving fish stocks and restoring them rapidly to levels that maximize sustainable yield.
the environmental impact of the russian-german gas pipeline in the baltic sea has not yet been assessed, but construction is already underway.
by creating a common policy on energy, as proposed by mr saryusz-wolski, the eu will become a much stronger player on the world stage, better placed to defend the interests of all its members.
a common energy policy has to become an essential part of our common security policy.
as late as january 2006, the eu countries started to realise that energy has been used and will be used by russia as a central instrument of its foreign policies.
for my country, estonia, this is nothing new: estonia experienced a full-scale energy blockade 16 years ago, when russia punished its former colony for trying to become genuinely independent.
therefore, i strongly support two key ideas of this report: creating a special eu official to coordinate foreign energy policies and including an energy solidarity clause in the future treaties.
but for men and women, i stress 'men and women' to be able to combine work and family, we need quality childcare facilities, a family-friendly work environment and a supportive legal framework.
we have focused our climate policy on the energy sector.
however, road transport is a major contributor to climate change and the davies report is a welcome initiative.
the car industry needs clear and long-term targets to reduce co2 emissions and i support davies' approach, which sets long-term limits on co2 emissions, for example by 2020 or 2025. the car industry has had a long time to reduce co2 emissions.
i hope that, like the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the house will support my amendment, which calls for the car industry to reduce its co2 emissions by 120 grams per kilometre by 2012.
reducing carbon emissions from fossil fuel combustion to near zero is important for mitigating climate change.
but to prevent and mitigate the unintended consequences of climate change, action is needed now.
the european union must make a real and substantial reduction in its greenhouse gas emissions, and this must remain the cornerstone of our climate policy.
i am pleased that the european parliament's temporary committee on climate change has just confirmed a strong position for our negotiators for the bali climate conference in december.
but we cannot wait for decades of research to come out with nothing else to do, and that's why we need to focus on the measures that can be implemented now: reducing co2 emissions, saving energy and a broad transition to renewable energy.
the itre committee's vote found that the reuli report placed too much emphasis on nuclear energy and too little on renewable energy.
in particular, i would like to call for support for the amendment which recommends that the european commission place renewable energy at the centre of its strategic plan for european energy technologies.
another very important test of this solidarity will be creating the common foreign policy on energy security, as proposed last month by the european parliament, including a special high representative on energy serving under the new high representative for foreign affairs.
the commission’s green paper refers mostly to a smoke-free environment, and the debate mainly focused on that area.
i agree with the report that only a 100% smoke-free environment is one that meets today's health standards.
this showed a clear consensus on the content priorities of the neighbourhood policy, from economic integration to increased mobility, from energy policy to political cooperation.
we have very clearly appreciated morocco's progress on the basis of its detailed internal reform programme, and the new aviation agreement and the close energy cooperation with the eu are also good models of working cooperation.
it is intended to help mobilise funds for the neighbourhood policy beyond our normal budget, in particular to finance the major projects, such as the energy or transport sectors.
the neighbourhood policy should therefore make a positive contribution to creating the right climate for solutions, for example to the conflicts in the south caucasus.
these programmes should include economic and environmental as well as social and cultural aspects.
but with the neighbourhood policy we are trying to create the best enabling environment for that.
but you should know that the european investment fund or investment facility that is always mentioned is an opportunity to give more funds to those countries that need them with regard to infrastructure projects, energy, transport and so on.
we cannot focus in europe only on economic performance and competition, but also on creating greater social cohesion and the social dimension of sustainability.
in uzbekistan and central asia in general, there is a risk that, given the region's energy resources, the interests of individual states will come to dominate our common values.
it concerns me that the proposal from the commission does not contain articles that would allow member states to limit the import of electricity from third countries if environmental regulations there are weaker than the ones applied here in the european union.
the european union should not make any concessions to energy suppliers that produce electricity at a low price but with a disastrous impact on the environment.
this would be spineless disloyalty to our values, as well as unfair to european energy suppliers that comply with the necessary standards.
europe must not sacrifice its security for the liberalisation of the energy market.
certainly not as long as third countries use energy as a tool of foreign policy.
both energy production and distribution are of strategic importance for estonia.
mr president, this weekend the european council will also discuss energy problems, which have become the issue of common security.
third, may i remind the council of the european parliament resolution on energy security from september, which proposes the post of an external official for energy security?
the precautionary principle, as it is known in the field of environmental protection, is all the more important in the use of the seas.
it is also positive that through helcom russia can be involved in the implementation of the baltic sea action programme, without whose participation it is difficult to ensure the protection and good environmental status of the baltic sea.