you raised a lot of important issues: the constitution, energy issues, climate issues, the situation in the middle east.
when i was appointed as the person responsible for this issue in the environment committee, i asked the femm committee to specify the tasks that should be done to mainstream equality, and the femm committee did so in the form of a questionnaire, which was very informative and welcomed.
mr president, climate change has only become a reality for many people now that the price has been paid.
but if we act now and stop climate change at two degrees, the cost is a fraction.
in addition, investments in a low-carbon economy are creating a global market for energy-efficient technologies, which is forecast to grow to up to eur 27 billion by 2020. to join this technological development, the union must create a functioning domestic market for renewable, low-emission forms of energy.
it must be remembered that nuclear energy cannot be the answer to this question, especially if we want europe to be self-sufficient in energy.
congress has now even created a special subcommittee on climate change.
only together can we influence countries like china and india to join the global emissions trading scheme.
they should not be allowed to pollute their environment and ours just because they are developing countries and then, once they have reached a high standard of living, take on a global environmental responsibility.
i suggest that the chairman of the environment committee immediately contact his sister committee in the u.s. congress.
the aim of this dialogue must be to bring the united states and the other countries left out of the emissions trading scheme into it.
there is a great urgency to take practical action to limit global warming to below two degrees, which is the eu's objective.
we must realize that the most important are the measures to improve energy efficiency and fuel efficiency.
the availability of reliable scientific information and the smooth transmission of that information are essential to the success of community environmental policy.
the proposal for a directive, now reached through conciliation, which creates the legal framework for the establishment of the european spatial information infrastructure inspire, is thus the basic precondition for scientific evaluation under environmental legislation.
the main objective of the various stages of the inspire process was to reduce the obstacles which hinder the sharing of environmental data between public authorities.
the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013).
in the future, more extensive online services will be available to describe the environment.
one of them is the directive on public access to environmental information, for which i was rapporteur.
the waste is a good example of how environmental friendliness can sometimes be very different in theory from in practice.
it is high time to clarify, simplify and harmonise community waste legislation.
we have seen too many cases where the court of justice of the european union has finally determined what is waste or how it should be treated.
we now need clear and workable criteria and guidelines so that our waste legislation can also support our lisbon objective, while guaranteeing a predictable operating environment for operators in the sector.
the generation of waste must be prevented both in terms of quantity and quality.
we must be able to define by-products and when waste is no longer waste, in order to reduce the use of virgin material as much as possible.
at the same time, the possibilities for the recovery of waste material must be increased so that the amount of waste to be disposed of is as low as possible.
i am therefore very concerned that the compromise report from the committee on the environment, which is at the same time a quality report, is not able to meet the objective it has set itself.
for example, the paragraph in the recital whereby all by-products are considered waste in principle, in the absence of clear case-by-case criteria in the legislation, would be disastrous for our community.
in practice, however vital and useful the substance or material produced as a by-product might be, for example, for further production or re-use, it would always be construed as waste or fall within the scope of the waste act for safety reasons.
however, the fact is that industrial activities generate large quantities of material whose exact composition is known and which could be considered at source as a separate part of the rest of the waste stream.
this would make it easy to exploit, the risks fully controlled and the energy saved.
similarly, a strict waste hierarchy, from which it is now possible to deviate only after a life-cycle assessment and a cost-benefit analysis on a case-by-case basis, would be legislation that we cannot justify in any way for the functionality and competitiveness of our waste management.
i think, mr president, that the committee on the environment has achieved an excellent result on waste legislation through compromise, and i hope that this work done in the committee on the environment will also be supported in this house.
the committee's overwhelming majority supported the idea that the five-level binding waste hierarchy should remain the cornerstone of eu waste policy.
the most important part of the hierarchy is reducing waste.
to achieve this, clear and binding eu-level targets are needed to reduce waste and increase reuse and recycling.
the shift from the current single-use culture to a sustainable one in production and consumption patterns.
it says here that the amount of waste is growing and growing.
they do, but in finland, for example, the amount of household waste has already been stabilised.
but we really must work now to reduce the amount of waste.
the waste hierarchy is the central issue for us, but when it can be demonstrated, on the basis of a life cycle approach, that a different measure makes sense in accordance with clear environmental criteria, flexibility can be shown in this respect.
the incineration of waste cannot be an alternative to landfill, and even then, of course, the emission criteria must be applied.
mr president, chancellor angela merkel spoke beautifully here at the meeting last january on energy and climate change.
i hope that chancellor angela merkel and germany will put their strength and their prestige to work to ensure that the eu acts as an initiator and a pioneer in the field of climate change and in the mitigation of climate change.
the fight against climate change is based on two key elements: reducing co2 emissions much faster than now and making the eu much more energy efficient.
it has been calculated that responding to climate change will eat up about one percent of the world's gross domestic product, which is expensive, but the same calculations show that doing nothing and not getting anything will cost even more and even multiply.
the implementation of the lisbon strategy therefore requires that climate change is also taken into account and that action is taken to address it.
indeed, we had the euro in the 1990s and enlargement in this decade, but ever since we have been looking for something and i think the debate today shows that that something has been found: climate change.
in many ways we should actually thank president putin for bringing energy policy onto the european agenda, because had he not done what he did in ukraine, i do not think we would be as excited about discussing energy sufficiency and the energy mix as we are today.
i am really happy with the direction in which the commission is taking the energy debate, the environmental debate and the debate on climate change.
the indent should read as follows: ‘as policymaker, to ensure, in cooperation with central banks and financial institutions, that european payment systems, including the updated system for wholesale payments “target2” and the planned system for target securities if it becomes a reality, are fully compliant with european data protection law; calls for the ecb to provide the european parliament with the assessment of such compliance;’
mr president, paragraph 34 of the climate resolution we have just voted on asked the commission to draw up a map of the risks of nuclear power stations in the event of floods and tsunamis caused by climate change.
in the novel, a tsunami caused by climate change caused a devastating nuclear power plant accident.
i am in favour of greater caution and risk assessment, but this initiative was embarrassing and a real disgrace to the reputation of the committee on the environment.
first of all, climate change is not causing tsunamis.
the commission came up with its proposal on energy and climate change a few weeks ago.
in that proposal the level of carbon emissions for cars was increased from 120g/km to 130g/km.
does the presidency think that this helps or hinders the issue of emissions?
mr president, the commission communication on the annual strategy for action contains some new openings, particularly in the fields of energy policy, immigration and administrative simplification.
the surprising feature is that the commission is setting up two new policy programmes under heading four, on climate change and energy efficiency.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the first one is, of course, climate change and energy.
so my four priorities, which i find in your paper as well, are climate change, the constitution, the single market and enlargement.
mr president, we can be pleased that the european union has taken an important step towards protecting life on our planet and has consolidated its global leadership in combating climate change.
in order to meet future energy needs, it was necessary to commit to renewable energy sources.
however, many renewable energy sources are still in the development phase and at the same time many energy-efficient practices are just waiting to be introduced.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings.
biofuels and bioenergy also need to be developed, but at the same time it must be ensured that the environmental friendliness of these energy sources throughout their life cycle is also taken into account at the global level, as has been said here.
all in all, we have the opportunity to become leaders in energy technology as europeans.
for example, my own small member state, which is more remote in terms of its natural environment and has a lower national income, has to pay this return of some eur 130 million a year, the cost of running a medium-sized university.
the commission will present its strategies, including climate change and energy measures.
parliament's political objectives are related to the lisbon strategy, sustainable climate and energy policy, rapid implementation of structural and cohesion policies, good immigration management, a sound information policy and a commonly agreed foreign and security policy.
at the same time, i note that the final budget will be so small that the union will not make significant progress in the new priority area of energy policy defined at the march summit.
one is an environmental impact assessment of the cost of the three seats and the other is the cost of the three seats of the european parliament.
humanity is currently living beyond its ecological resources on an ecological credit card.
all of humanity is using 25 percent of natural resources above sustainable levels, which means we're eating our children's capital.
if current trends continue, by 2050 humanity will be using twice the amount of natural resources at sustainable levels.
the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is only part of the wider challenge of using natural resources more economically and intelligently.
in order to bring the use of natural resources down to a sustainable level and at the same time enable developing countries to escape from poverty, rich countries - like ours - would have to increase the ratio between the wealth they produce and the consumption of natural resources by a factor of ten over a period of 50 years.
as all colleagues have already pointed out, the strategy presented by the commission is far too loose, particularly because it lacks concrete objectives and timetables, although the sixth environmental action programme requires them.
mr president, commissioner dimas' example was a good one, because when bioenergy production is increased, it must be done on a sustainable basis and specifically on a global scale, but the problem with this strategy, for example, is that agriculture and forestry are not included.
this is one of the last thematic strategies of the sixth environment action programme.
it has already been stated here that the sixth environmental action programme sets quantitative and qualitative objectives for the european union's environmental policy and that these have not been included in the commission's proposals.
the aim of ensuring that the use of natural resources and the associated impacts do not exceed the environmental capacity has also not been achieved in this resource strategy.
the revision of this sixth environmental action programme was due to take place a year ago and it is very important that such an analytical revision of the programme be carried out now that we are well into the discussion of the thematic strategies.
so i would like to ask commissioner dimas when the commission intends to review the sixth environment action programme?
i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i think we must try to see these things as a whole and our aim must be to ensure that equal and sustainable opportunities for both housing and innovation are guaranteed throughout the european union.
the environment is a top priority for the eu and drastic action is needed to achieve an environmentally sustainable future.
the baltic sea is one of the seas that urgently needs tougher environmental regulations in order to recover and survive.
i would therefore like to draw attention to some points in the commission's proposal for environmental quality standards that we must address.
this could lead to a serious erosion of our environmental legislation.
we need a common, strict and clear regulatory framework to tackle the environmental toxins in our waters.
the report mentions climate change, dependency on energy, failing states and international terrorism, just to mention a few examples.
one of the most important is the fight against climate change and environmental issues.
environmental issues in particular have proved to be effective in this respect.
but these environmental issues cannot be left to chance and it is not the time to stop.
the effects of climate change are most dramatic in the north, where nature is very fragile and the livelihoods of indigenous peoples must be safeguarded.
i therefore hope that, under german leadership, additional funding from the epcf will be secured, thereby giving climate change and environmental issues an even more important role in the policy and management of climate change in the northern dimension.
we do not want it to be some kind of alcoholic waste basket.
russia is a neighbour of many eu member states and therefore a partner in many fields, not just energy.
i would point out that the russian economy is more than just energy.
only a third of last year's economic growth came from energy.
the eu's environmental legislation has been modernised in line with the strategy during our parliamentary term.
the toxicity of mercury and its many compounds to humans and the environment is undeniable, and the costs to society of the public health and environmental impacts are far greater than anticipated.
the key to environmental legislation is that the means chosen are not only environmentally efficient but also socially sustainable.
environmental considerations favour the swift implementation of the mercury export ban, as mr papadimoulis rightly points out.
europe has no functioning energy market because most of the member states do not comply with the agreements.
a sound internal market would facilitate market access for smaller companies, such as importers of renewable energy sources.
a functioning internal market for citizens means affordable prices and is important for the energy poor.
energy production must be separated from its distribution, i.e.
we demand a united voice with russia, but we do not speak with one voice on energy.
madam president, the energy package the commissioner has put forward deals with three issues: security of supply, competition and environmental sustainability.
if i have one thesis today, it is that, even in the energy market, we need free and undistorted competition.
a few months ago, i received a letter from the local community stating: ‘wow, fantastic, now finally you can choose your energy supplier and this will lead to greater competition’ – as if they had done something about it!
i am really glad that mr vidal-quadras has put forward an ambitious report and the commission is keeping a tough line on energy competition.
mr president, as my esteemed colleague mr vidal-quadras rightly points out in his report, there is no alternative to liberalising the energy market.
a genuine internal energy market is essential to achieving the three objectives of the european energy sector: competition, sustainable development and security of supply.
healthy competition in the market reduces costs for citizens and businesses and encourages energy efficiency and investment.
energy policy should always bear in mind the climate objective, the pursuit of a world with as few emissions as possible.
the long-term energy self-sufficiency and operational security must also be a key issue, and a functioning internal market has a major role to play in this.
on the one hand, an open market allows smaller companies, such as those investing in renewable energy sources, to enter the market.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
it is therefore important to integrate the environmental dimension into all decision-making on the sea.
for example, short-sighted overfishing has led to the collapse of many fish stocks and is also a major cause of the decline in marine biodiversity.
the recovery of fish stocks cannot be achieved without reducing the pollution, industrial chemicals and also agricultural fertilizers that pollute the sea.
as the rapporteur has said, it is also important to reduce emissions from shipping, which is one of the main sources of emissions that pollute our air.
climate change is also more than just sea level rise for the oceans, because it also means ocean acidification, which has dramatic effects on all marine ecosystems.
the majority of the acidifying carbon dioxide that warms the ocean is produced on land, but an increasing proportion is produced by the growth of maritime traffic itself.
maritime transport must be included in international climate agreements and emissions trading.
the warming of the oceans caused by climate change will have unpredictable consequences for the entire planet's ecosystems.
after all, more than 80 percent of the additional warming in the climate system is stored in the oceans.
this is changing marine ecology and marine biodiversity.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal.
transport is the sector whose co2 emissions are growing faster than any other.
for example, emissions from road transport have increased by more than 25% since 1990 and those from air transport by more than 50%.
this will negate the reductions achieved in other sectors, such as industry and energy production.
it is therefore time to introduce the polluter pays principle in transport too, and to include the cost of environmental damage in the price of transport modes.
unfortunately, the committee on transport wanted to water down this principle by using environmental taxes in transport in the transport sector.
however, transport must also take co2 emissions seriously.
clear targets must be set for reducing emissions not only from vehicles but also from transport as a whole.
if one third of these short car journeys were replaced by walking, cycling or buses, the co2 emissions of the whole of europe would be reduced by several per cent.
for example, the german reich would have a 4% reduction in emissions.
furthermore, air pollution would be reduced where the greatest number of people live.
according to the world health organization, more than 300,000 europeans die prematurely each year from air pollution, the main cause of which in cities is road traffic.
business would also benefit from a reduction in pollution-related illnesses.
secondly, the background is underdevelopment and environmental catastrophe.
this crisis is the first war on climate change.
the report rightly stresses the importance of completing the opening up of the energy and communications sectors to competition, since advanced and open networks are ultimately in the interest of consumers and a guarantee of growth.
this union and this parliament continue to have too ideological an attitude towards different forms of energy.
in practice, the harmful effects of climate change are countered by reducing emissions.
this should aim to remove ambiguities in the business environment, clarify the applicable regulatory regime and seek to reduce administrative burdens.
if it is to be established, its financing must be managed in a sustainable way.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal.
the most important of these is the internalisation of the external costs of transport, such as environmental costs.
pricing that reflects real costs, including environmental and social costs, is a key way of developing a transport system that is intelligent, efficient and rational.
transport co2 emissions cannot continue to rise at the current rate, otherwise it will negate the reductions achieved in other sectors, such as industry.
climate change is exacerbating desertification, but so far it has been mostly caused by local actions, such as deforestation and improper farming, irrigation, and livestock management.
while climate change exacerbates desertification, desertification exacerbates climate change, because the decrease in carbon bound to the soil eventually releases that carbon into the atmosphere.
the darfur crisis has been described as the first climate change conflict.
as the resolution states, sustainable land use is worth investing in.
this will help to bring the energy debate back to the european level.
our energy industry is affected by outside forces, but also by its own causes.
i would first like to draw your attention to the situation of electricity produced from renewable sources.
it is important that electricity from renewable energy sources is fairly supported.
renewable energy must also be able to alleviate energy poverty.
industrialized nations must develop technologies and methods that will enable poor nations to secure their energy supply.
now economic poverty, information poverty and energy poverty are hitting the same people.
in europe, on the other hand, there can be no functioning internal energy market as long as the majority of member states do not comply with the common agreements.
the setting of targets for energy production and use is always a difficult task and must be based on sound science.
sector specific renewable energy targets at national level should therefore be created with due consideration.
the energy conditions vary greatly.
we need to discuss with the member states, for example, monitoring systems, the classification of biofuels for transport and the role of nuclear energy in the renewable energy target calculations.
as a non-emission energy source, nuclear energy should not be subject to an increase in the target for renewable energy.
the commission has classified peat as a fossil fuel, although the un's international panel of climate scientists has moved it to its own category between fossil and biofuels.
now there are new positive findings on the impact of peat on climate based on a life cycle model.
when peat is used first for peat production and then either for forestry or for the cultivation of fodder, it has a smaller climate impact.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the international energy agency (iea) estimates that oil will be an extremely scarce resource within five years.
today, 80% of the eu's energy is produced by fossil fuels, mainly oil and gas.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the increase in the use of renewable energy sources is therefore necessary.
renewable energy accounts for more than 6% of the eu's energy supply today.
of this, biomass and waste incineration account for 4.2%, hydropower for 1.5%, wind power for 0.3%, geothermal for 0.3% and sunlight for almost nothing.
the target of increasing the share of renewable energy sources to 20%, or tripling their share by 2020, seems to be an overly ambitious target.
the achievement of the 20% target set by the directive will be determined by the willingness and ability of large member states to increase the use of renewable energy.
mr president, we will not be able to reduce co2 emissions in line with our objectives unless we have both strategies in place - both the energy efficiency target and renewable energy sources.
the use of renewable energy sources currently varies widely between member states.
we need binding country-specific energy efficiency targets and targets for renewable energy.
it is necessary to require that the member states with large populations, which currently produce a very small proportion of their energy from renewable sources, close this gap.
without the right support systems, without the right regulation, so that we can have a sustainable energy policy, we will not be able to bring about the real revolution that has been brought about here in energy policy.
i think that we need a common energy policy.
this means that we need to revise a lot of the legislation in the pipeline and we need to focus, as mr paasilinna said earlier, on a proper energy mix while looking at the whole programme.
i do not want to be in a situation whereby small states such as finland, which already has 25% renewables today, have to hike up their burden to, say, 45%, whereas the five biggest member states, which actually consume 60% of energy, keep much lower standards.
on top of that, of course, a country like finland is not going to have too much solar energy, unfortunately.
with the national action plans, i would like to hope that the directorate-general for energy and transport has enough staff, or is able to recruit enough staff, to deal with, monitor and implement the issues.
in my remaining time, these are my three points: firstly, we need a common energy policy, secondly we need fair burden-sharing and, thirdly, we need to be very careful with the methodology for calculation.
– finland is one of the world’s leading countries in utilising renewable energy sources, especially bioenergy.
the share of renewable energy in finland is ca.
the objectives concerning the use of renewable energy sources must be realistic.
in the fight against the climate change, the availability of reasonable priced bio mass, vital for our forest industry, must be ensured.
as indigenous fuel, peat has a considerable effect on regional policy, and it increases employment and the security of energy supply.
no emission-free, low-emission or other form of generation that is emission-neutral, sustainable and cost-efficient can be ruled out, including nuclear power.
all forms of energy must be assessed on the basis of the overall interests of society.
the share of carbonless energy sources, including nuclear energy, should be increased in the fight against climate change.
nuclear power increases independence from imported energy, is environmentally cleaner than other options and an economical energy source.
i therefore find it very important that member states are free to choose the most appropriate renewable energy sources given the differences in geological, hydrological and climatic conditions in the member states.
mr president, in promoting renewable energy sources, we must be careful to identify the needs we are trying to meet.
it is one thing to be a pioneer at any cost, reaching your targets, and it is another to develop far-reaching, cross-sectoral, sustainable energy solutions.
it is already clear that the percentage targets set and the eu's environmental and climate targets on the other hand are unfortunately not mutually supportive at the implementation level.
however, the decision to achieve the targets has resulted in artificially manipulated energy markets at the expense of consumers and in unsustainable energy solutions to address climate change.
when it comes to combating climate change, switching to biofuels is not the answer.
it is hardly the right course to take in a world where food shortages are a likely scenario in the face of the greenhouse effect.
the concern expressed in a study published by the oecd that state subsidies for biofuels may lead to higher food prices and damage to forests, while their use may be less important in combating climate change than estimated, is real.
a similar concern is expressed in a recent article in science magazine comparing the climate benefits of biofuels with deforestation over a period of 30 years.
the results of the comparison vary depending on the raw material and production technology, but in all cases, afforestation of the corresponding area of cultivation would capture 2 to 9 times more carbon than could be reduced by using biofuels.
we must now be patient in achieving these objectives, lest we also soon find that the decision to rapidly increase the share of renewable energy sources to one fifth of energy production was taken in haste and threatens the environment in the future in the form of deforestation.
i believe that it can be integrated into the european research field without damaging the environment.
the report shows that the union still has a long way to go in creating a common energy policy.
i would like to emphasise the role of renewable energy in improving energy self-sufficiency, diversifying energy sources and managing climate change.
the commission will continue to support the development of the energy sector in the union by providing support to the development of the energy sector in the union.
the member states must be able to retain their right to make energy decisions and to exploit their own energy resources, but at the same time there is a need for cooperation, the exchange of good practices and also common provisions which will help to create a common energy policy.
it is also important to implement joint renewable energy projects with the union's neighbouring countries in order to make more efficient and sustainable use of renewable energy resources throughout europe.
in order to give the project the go-ahead, the eu must require: a reliable assessment of its environmental impact, guarantees of compensation if the gas pipeline causes accidents and full operational transparency in the form of a monitoring council with representatives of the baltic sea countries.
mr president, energy security is the most important factor in the overall security of europe.
the eu's problem is the decline in energy independence.
already, the eu imports half of its energy needs from outside and by 2025 it is estimated to be over 70% dependent on imports.
this requires a strong common voice, a new energy diplomacy and a special high representative for the eu's external energy policy to take charge of this.
the transfer of a stronger mandate to the union in the field of external energy policy must not, however, mean that the sovereignty of the member states to decide on the means of energy production, its composition, is weakened.
the report gives the member states the freedom to decide independently on the structure of their energy supply.
fixed-term contracts are also a big problem for many women in europe, who would like to have more sustainability and stability in their family life as well.
it is not sustainable and unfortunately it gives the wrong impression of the european parliament.
mr president, the eu's maritime policy is one of the most important initiatives for which the present commission will be remembered with goodwill, especially if the commission is able to use its enlargement and the political muscle it has given us in enlargement to save our marine environment.
i ask whether the commission could see the baltic sea not only as an environmental challenge but also as a political challenge.
if we can save the dying sea, we can show the people that there is real value in the union and that together we are stronger to save our environment than we are alone.
mr president, the subject under discussion, the sustainable use and marketing of pesticides, is of great importance.
it is about both sustainable agriculture and public health.
it is feared that the practice of sustainable agriculture will be pushed back by years.
mr president, the thematic strategy and framework directive on plant protection products are a challenging legislative project and reflect the fundamental objective of eu environmental policy to combine effective environmental and health protection with policies that take account of social realities.
at the same time, however, the negative effects of plant protection products on the environment and in particular on water bodies are real.
on the other hand, the environment is particularly sensitive.
water pollution is a huge environmental problem, and pesticides are part of it.
it is therefore important, both from a rational and environmental point of view, that we focus on the objectives and leave the means to the member states.
a good example of this is the so-called buffer zones, which undoubtedly play a major role in the protection of the aquatic environment.
all energy is becoming more expensive, with four-fifths of the eu's total energy consumption being based on fossil fuels.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources.
however, there is no guarantee that liquefied carbon dioxide can be safely stored indefinitely.
there is no sign of investments in transport infrastructure in the hydrogen economy, let alone the use of electric cars produced with zero-carbon electricity, as called for in the report.
overall, the commission's proposal to produce 20% of the eu's energy from renewable fuels by 2020 is not credible.
this is not possible, at least not with renewable fuels produced in the eu's own territory or in the large eu member states.
unfortunately, there is no guarantee that the companies will use the excess profits they make to fund energy research, since the spirit of the age is that they distribute their profits as dividends to their owners.
emissions trading also increases the profits of electricity companies instead of reducing emissions.
mr president, commissioner, the reul report raises an important question about the direction europe and the world are taking in terms of energy.
there is no quick alternative to fossil energy under the current circumstances, not even if we were to save, as we could save considerably more energy.
fossil fuels account for as much as 77 percent of our energy.
we know that the international energy agency is forecasting that world energy consumption will increase by more than one and a half percent a year.
fossil energy consumption is expected to increase even more, since large developing countries are not very reliant on wind power.
developing countries account for 70% of the increase in energy consumption, and china alone for 30%.
it'll take decades to change the energy system.
if we cannot organise environmental and energy issues, we cannot guarantee peace.
i have just heard that the united states spends five times as much on environmental research as the union.
finally, energy has a social dimension.
in order to achieve a lower level of taxation in europe, we need to create an environment conducive to investment.
we must also set an example in reducing emissions.
we cannot waste 200 million euros a year of taxpayers' money.
in title 1: sustainable growth and employment, payment appropriations were cut by a total of eur 1 046 million, despite the fact that this was a key priority of budgetary policy.
its main content is as follows: the absolute focus of the budget is heading one: sustainable growth and employment.
one of these pilot projects concerns the reduction of the discharge of hazardous waste into the baltic sea and the remediation of the oxygen deficit in the deep sea.
the second concerns the reduction of sulphur dioxide emissions from shipping through emissions trading.
if this experiment is successful, sulphur dioxide emissions trading could become a viable way of reducing sulphur dioxide emissions in all eu marine areas, thus cleaning up the air we all breathe in europe in the future.
i know both men and i know that they are committed to openness and transparency and want to be part of building the european union's economy on a sustainable basis, as they should.
thirdly, it is important to keep in mind the principles of sustainable development and the values of the union when drawing up the budget.
the creation of a smoke-free europe and the prevention of secondhand smoke are essential objectives of the union's environmental and public health policy.
we are all connected to each other through energy, but the dependence is mutual.
secondly, as the report commendably calls for, climate change must be placed at the very heart of the strategy.
water, its quality and its availability, is rising alongside energy as a major political problem, with africa as the first victim.
however, i would like to remind you that the most important environmental problems in africa so far are erosion and overgrazing.
climate change is naturally making things worse.
africa is also a natural partner for the eu in the fight against climate change in international fora.
thirdly, i would stress the importance of small businesses and local entrepreneurship as a prerequisite for sustainable and genuine economic development in africa.
the greens consider the euratom treaty as a whole to be outdated, because it unjustifiably favours nuclear power at the expense of other, safer forms of energy.
this proposal would lead to dg tren being both a promoter and a regulator of nuclear energy, which is not right.
especially since, at international level, the international atomic energy agency has a contradictory role as a watchdog of nuclear safety and a promoter of nuclear power.
mr president, action to combat climate change is urgent and, as has been said here, all sectors emitting greenhouse gases must contribute to it.
greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly.
this is important to remember when so many times it is said that aviation is responsible for only two or three percent of greenhouse gas emissions.
as noted, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation have increased by as much as half since 1990. the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading scheme is a proposal from the european union.
the weaknesses of the general emissions trading directive could now be exploited to increase the share of auctions in the initial allocation of allowances.
the ships, as well as the whole system, should be incentivised to reduce emissions by replacing short flights with train journeys, and this is particularly appropriate for areas with a dense urban network and a high population density.
reference, yes, for me: 2005-2007; auction, for me: 25%; profits: partly back to the airlines, and then partly to other good climate change causes.
now, i realise that this is a difficult issue for many, but for me it is not an environmental issue in that sense.
the way in which climate change is going, i am afraid the only place where we are going to have snow in the winter in the future is going to be lapland.
we are embarking on a unique system, with the creation of an air transport climate instrument.
there are risk factors involved in aviation emissions trading and i would urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to take note of a few important points.
while we are rightly concerned about the growing emissions from aviation, aviation itself is the future - even essential for the environment.
for example, the mips study, which is highly regarded and takes account of the overall environmental burden, shows that air transport has its merits and is seen as the solution for the future.
that is why, when we are making compromises, i wanted the revenue from the emissions trading to be directed specifically to research and development in aviation.
if the increase in emissions is a real concern, transport resources should be devoted specifically to the development of zero-emission transport.
on the other hand, the directive should also ensure that the conditions for fair competition in the emissions trading system exist in the outermost regions of the union.
the bat-ael based on the maximum capacity of the aircraft would best ensure the fairness of the emissions trading and would ultimately be better for the climate.
the system designed to protect the climate should specifically encourage ticket prices to be determined more closely by actual flight kilometres.
it doesn't make any sense for the environment.
i take it as a starting point that air transport is also necessary for the environment, because its merits are clearly visible, for example, in the mips inspection.
if we really consider the rapidly increasing emissions from aviation to be a problem, we must devote all our transport resources to directing research funds towards the development of zero-emission aviation.
mr president, we all know the importance of protecting the environment and combating climate change.
i think that the majority of the environment committee in this parliament did not see the whole picture of this report in all its aspects.
air transport emissions represent only 2% of the total emissions and should therefore be allocated to the total.
so even if all air traffic were to stop, it would have little effect on global warming.
in addition, it should be taken into account that many airlines have already made significant investments to improve the environmental performance of their fleets.
now, during its presidency, portugal has had the ability and the energy to push through the evaluation process.
entrepreneurs, the public sector, schools and universities joined forces to build an effective innovation environment.
at the same time, renewable energy projects were launched.
first, energy, its availability and adequacy, raise and lower societies in a global competitive environment.
the eu is facing a serious challenge in reducing its energy self-sufficiency.
we already import half of our energy from outside, and our dependence on imports is projected to increase.
in addition to a determined drive to increase energy independence, we need a strong common external energy policy, a common voice, solidarity and import security.
the second key is climate change, a global phenomenon that has a negative and global impact on the environment, the economy and society and requires global solutions.
unilateral action distorts competition and causes carbon leakage.
in the context of globalisation, the need for a global emissions trading system, the mandatory commitment of all industrialized and emerging economies, and the removal of barriers to market access for clean technologies is emerging.
sure, there are things to improve: europe's innovation policy would do with a boosting, global market regulation is needed and climate change prevention should not be only europe's problem.
climate change is here and it's happening faster than we can predict.
the message from scientists about the progress of climate change and the urgency of reducing emissions is becoming more alarming.
it is important that there is no gap between the kyoto agreement and the next climate agreement.
bali the eu must do all it can to secure a negotiating mandate that will allow global warming to be limited to below two degrees.
we will show leadership by taking action to reduce our own emissions, but also by engaging in international negotiations.
it is essential to involve all the industrialized countries, including the united states, but it is not enough to save the climate.
it is equally essential to get the big developing countries, like china and india, to agree to limits on their emissions.
we have to understand that if china and india and similar countries accept limits on their emissions, it means a huge change in their thinking and their way of doing things.
in other words, we must also support financially the breakthrough of clean, climate-friendly technology in these countries.
i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that nicholas stern estimates that 1% of the world's gdp is needed each year to protect the climate.
it was important to get the post-war reconstruction going, but even more important is to prevent a comparable disaster through climate change.
so we must also be prepared to pay financially for climate protection.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the days are coming when the island of bali in indonesia will be hosting delegates to the 13th conference of the parties to the convention on climate change, and they are once again being asked to make history by using their experience and their negotiating skills.
with the first commitment period of the kyoto protocol running from 2008 to 2012, the worrying scientific information that has emerged in the meantime on the recent evolution of the climate change phenomenon makes clear the urgency of finding a collective and effective response to this challenge because what is at stake is nothing less than the future of our planet.
in this context, bali presents itself as the last opportunity to launch negotiations on a comprehensive global climate agreement beyond 2012. we are aware of the difficulties of this legal process.
the european union's major objective at the bali climate change conference will be related to the process itself, to ensure the launch of a comprehensive and comprehensive negotiation process.
i would also like to tell them that the following are the elements that the union considers essential for the creation of an effective and appropriate framework after 2012. first, to continue to develop a common view of the problem in order to achieve the great objective of the convention; second, to agree on stronger commitments by developed countries to absolute emission reductions; third, facilitating new equitable and effective contributions from other countries, including incentives created by new types of flexible commitments, to reduce the greenhouse gas intensity associated with economic development; fourthly, we also want to expand the carbon market, in particular by strengthening innovative and flexible mechanisms; fifthly, to strengthen cooperation in the fields of research, development, dissemination, projection and transparency in the technological field; and finally, to intensify adaptation efforts, in particular with regard to risk management instruments, financing and technologies.
we were at the forefront in kyoto in committing ourselves beyond what was required of us then, and today the union and its member states have clearly defined ambitious targets that put us at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
as the president-in-office of the european council in new york pointed out, climate change is now undeniably one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, having moved beyond the realm of scholarship to become a real and widespread concern for people all over the world.
the effectiveness of our response will depend on collective action by the international community, which is why we believe that all efforts should be directed towards the negotiation of the comprehensive and comprehensive agreement, as i have said, within the framework of the united nations framework convention on climate change, which represents, and must continue to represent, the central and unavoidable frame of reference for all actions and initiatives to be developed in this field.
it is therefore time for other states to take up their responsibilities and play a real and proportionate role in the global fight against climate change.
encouraged by the debate between heads of state and government at the recent informal lisbon summit on europe and globalisation, which made it clear that climate change is a priority for the union, and by the conclusions of the environment council of 30 june on the preparations for cop 23, we will be leaving for bali, determined to actively contribute to achieving a result that can be translated into concrete and tangible progress on the future climate regime.
the commission and the european parliament have been instrumental in the adoption of an ambitious european climate policy with a leading role on the international stage and a constructive attitude towards our key partners in the developed and developing countries.
the question put by the interim committee on climate change is about the most important issues we will face in bali.
one such issue is how to secure the support of our key partners to start negotiations with a view to concluding an international agreement that seeks and ensures that global warming is limited to 2°c.
the bali conference will undoubtedly be a milestone in the international effort to combat climate change.
climate change is now a top priority of international policy and an issue of immediate concern to heads of state at the international level.
a month ago, the first-of-its-kind summit convened by un secretary-general ban ki-moon in new york sent a very strong message: that climate change is now recognized by all world leaders as an issue that requires urgent and decisive action by the international community.
the recent meeting in bogor also confirmed that more and more countries agree on the need to agree in bali to start formal negotiations on a post-2012 climate agreement.
the european union's climate and energy strategy, adopted by the european council in march 2007 on the basis of the commission's proposal, has decisively influenced the target and level of ambition of the bali conference and the architecture of the post-2012 climate agreement.
at the end of this month, the european union will discuss the issue of climate change as a priority issue at the eu-china and eu-india summits.
we have the financial and technological means to limit greenhouse gas emissions.
the forecasts for the increase in global emissions leave no doubt, however, that developing countries must also contribute.
but we need the developing countries, with our help, to slow down the rate of increase in their emissions so that globally -- at some point in the next 10 to 15 years -- after we peak carbon emissions, they can start to decline completely.
that is why we support the initiative of our indonesian hosts to invite the finance ministers to a meeting on climate change and finance in bali during the conference.
the commission will adopt the climate and energy package early next year and will provide the means to achieve our targets of a 20% cut unilaterally and a 30% cut if there is an international agreement.
the package of measures will include proposals to share responsibility and obligations between member states, improve the eu's emissions trading system and achieve the renewable energy targets.
measures taken at community level should also contribute to the reduction of emissions.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the commission will propose a legislative framework to achieve the community target of 120 g/km by 2012. the commission will also present the legal framework for the capture and storage of carbon dioxide with the necessary guarantees for environmental protection.
although, as i said earlier, there are encouraging examples internationally, there are also serious differences of opinion, for example, on how to deal with climate change and in particular the type, the nature of the objectives.
these kinds of objectives are fundamental if we are to ensure the effectiveness of our agreement and to strengthen the global carbon market.
there's already a very lively debate going on inside the united states about tackling climate change.
we count on the support of the european parliament to promote the european union's ambitious climate goals through your various contacts with colleagues from other parliaments around the world, with industry representatives and with civil society.
we need this support as part of our efforts to strengthen international cooperation on climate change.
it is clear that we are facing perhaps one of the most important, if not the most important, climate change conference to date.
unfortunately, the last five climate summits have not made much progress.
now is finally the time to decide on concrete action models for the period after 2012. what these previous meetings have in common is that instead of bringing real breakthroughs, we have seen a back-slapping of the leadership that comes from unilateral action and environmental ambition in the eu, and so we are moving forward another year.
the problem is that the global climate problem requires rapid global action, and that's what has seemed to be emerging.
for example, a year ago nairobi did not bring into focus the commitment of significant new countries to cut emissions from 2013 onwards.
the hope has therefore been that negotiated plans outside the kyoto agreement would lead to reductions in emissions for the world's four largest emitters, the united states, china, india and russia.
at the time, there was no way of knowing how much more emissions would be emitted, and now about half of the emissions are coming from developing countries, mainly china and india.
it can attract companies operating in global markets to continue investing where there are no proper environmental standards or emission limits.
but there is no solidarity for people in developing countries in the destruction of their environment.
the shifting of emissions is not cutting emissions.
so the net result is that three quarters of the emissions are increasing at an accelerating rate.
could it be time to uncouple industrial production from country-specific constraints and instead design a global industrial sector system and an international carbon economy?
the emphasis should be on energy saving and eco-efficiency, low-emission technology and its development.
mr president, the credibility of the european union's leadership on climate policy will be tested in bali in december.
the result must be a global will, a clear mandate to act to limit global warming to two degrees.
however, achieving this target will require a commitment by all industrialized countries, such as the united states and australia, to reduce emissions.
mr president, my group gives its clear support to the development of the enp and the priorities identified by the commission, namely economic integration, human mobility, energy - to which we would like to add climate change - and financial and technical assistance.
in fact, this 'bali mandate' means that the countries which ratified the climate agreement at the bali meeting are seeking to achieve a negotiating mandate which will create the possibility of a next climate agreement.
mr president, our group considered the amendment to the declaration on the role of nuclear energy in our declaration on the climate conference as an essential part of this resolution.
the un's intergovernmental panel on climate change also noted the important role of nuclear power as a low-carbon energy source.
the european parliament recognised nuclear energy as the eu's most significant low-carbon energy source at present and also stressed its role in combating climate change.
it doesn't alienate one form of energy or sympathize with another for ideological reasons.
the only thing that matters is zero emissions, and now emissions are not welcome.
in any event, i would like to express our satisfaction that this house has given a clear message to the climate change conference and has recognised the seriousness of the threat of climate change.
the european union is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mainstreaming climate policy is essential for the successful fight against climate change.
the report before us is a valuable and necessary contribution: trade policy must be part of climate policy, for the very reason that increased trade is causing ever more greenhouse gas emissions.
on the other hand, trade policy is a particularly effective instrument for climate policy and can therefore be part of the solution.
on the other hand, it is unacceptable that in the wto environment, distortive subsidies for fossil fuels, for example, continue to stand in the way of green technology.
unilateral action distorts competition and causes carbon leakage.
the shifting of emissions is not cutting emissions.
moreover, solidarity for the people of developing countries is not that their environment is being ruined kyoto leads to environmental exploitation.
climate change is a global phenomenon and requires global solutions.
the global emissions trading system and the mandatory commitment of all industrialized and emerging economies to it are therefore essential.
the renewable energy targets set by the commission must not lead to an acceleration of climate change.
mr president, i take this point on behalf of my colleague mr stavros dimas, whose presence in bali at the climate change conference has prevented him from being here this evening.
i would first like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, ms lienemann, for her excellent work on the marine strategy directive, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for its positive and constructive contribution.
by preserving at all times its high political and environmental objectives, parliament has played a helpful and constructive role to work towards this agreement.
the objective of the proposed directive is that member states take the necessary measures to achieve good environmental status in the marine environment by the year 2020 at the latest.
the commission remains vigilant to ensure that all necessary measures are adopted to guarantee the effective protection of our marine environment.
i would like in particular to underline three issues that have been central to the negotiations: ensuring an ambitious objective for the directive; defining in a more precise way what is meant by good environmental status, including a set of specific descriptors, and requiring the establishment of marine protected areas in the context of this directive.
we will continue to build on this policy initiative in order to allow this marine strategy directive to concretely deliver the environmental pillar of the marine policy of the european union.
for the ppe-de group mr president, as rapporteur for my group, i am pleased to say that the directive on which we have reached agreement is one of the eu environmental laws whose results will be tangibly enjoyed by our future generations.
it is time to finally pay attention to our marine environment, whose deterioration has been a sad sight to behold, the baltic sea being the most striking example.
the directive in question offers new hope in this situation, with the aim of halting marine pollution and restoring marine biodiversity.
one example of where our positions differed was in relation to the future prospects for carbon capture and storage technology.
we, on the other hand, felt that in the light of climate change this was necessary and that the maritime directive should not therefore create details which would make this impossible.
the compromise text clearly describes the good status of the marine environment we are seeking and the possible threats to it.
at the same time, it will no longer identify in detail the different activities that pose a threat, since the list would not be exhaustive and would, on the one hand, place activities in the marine environment in an unequal position.
i am convinced that the marine strategy directive is an excellent environmental pillar of the eu's overall maritime policy.
it explicitly supports the overall maritime policy objective of increasing growth, jobs and sustainable development, while building on a strong marine research knowledge base.
we are debating today, at second reading, two important directives to improve the quality of the environment - one for the sea, the other for the air.
air protection is the most important and traditional area of environmental protection because of the direct link between air quality and human health.
as the commission has noted, air pollution has reduced life expectancy in the eu by 8.5 months.
the quality of life for hundreds of thousands of people is deteriorating daily, and the natural environment is threatened despite significant emission reductions in recent years.
i am especially glad that mr virrankoski made possible the pilot projects in support of the sustainability of the baltic sea.
the parliament's absolute priority has been under heading 1: sustainable growth and competitiveness.
harmonising the environment for asset management and products on the fund market can bring huge benefits to the european economy, as proven also by the 1985 ucits directive.
we might end up with a more rigid regime, and we would probably find ourselves in a different financial market environment.