the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
what will be europe's energy policy?
then there is the ecological dimension.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
(applause) i would like to thank
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
and as a european, i can only welcome the presidency's proposals on such essential subjects as energy, climate change, environmental protection, security and justice, immigration policy, economic policy coordination, development policy, international trade, but also relations with the united states and russia.
after the events of early 2006 and those of the last few days concerning the energy supply of the union and its neighbourhood, europe must speak not only with one voice but also with a firm voice to defend its strategic interests.
if we manage to create a climate of trust through a concrete project, i believe that the first step towards a long-term understanding in the region will have been taken.
then you brought up the climate problem.
but let's not depend on california for the climate.
let's go to california and see how the climate continues!
(calling) i was talking about the climate, not the death penalty.
it is a question of providing precise answers to the expectations and concerns of our citizens in the face of the great challenges of our time: the means of economic, industrial and scientific power, demography, co-development, the control of migratory flows, energy security and climate change, food security, the preservation of our social models, and also the dialogue of cultures and religions, the integration and the rise of china, india and many other emerging countries.
as for revision, let us relax and follow jean monnet's advice: "nothing is possible without people, nothing is sustainable without institutions".
i, in turn, would like to commend the quality of the german presidency's programme presented by chancellor angela merkel, which gives meaning to the construction of europe in many areas: values, institutions, the union's international role, the doha agenda, transatlantic relations, the partnership with russia, the future europe/africa summit, energy and environmental issues, the development of our internal market, the need for better legislation to avoid bureaucracy.
the road is 25% of greenhouse gas emissions, so the stakes are high.
it is also necessary to overcome the obstacles to interoperability and adopt - this is crucial - a taxation system which actually penalizes the most polluting transport modes, such as a tax on kerosene or the internalisation of environmental costs for road transport.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change requires a considerable commitment by the union to public transport, and rail in particular.
all indications are that safety and rail services, especially where the profitability of the service is low, will decline in europe, which will also go against the objectives of combating the greenhouse effect and increase inequalities.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in such a climate and on the eve of the third world congress, the eu must be more vigilant.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i am pleased that we are having this debate at the same time as the intergovernmental panel on climate change is meeting in paris, and we are all awaiting the conclusions.
(applause from the centre and the right) if you are only interested in the climate issue in front of the journalists, i am sorry to say that i counted you when the council and the commission were discussing it earlier: there were not more than 50 members in the chamber.
the targets for reducing emissions are known: 50% reduction worldwide, and therefore 75% reduction in our countries by 2050. this is not only through a substantial increase in the share of clean energy, but also through a new approach to energy efficiency, which implies a rapid development of railways and motorways of the sea, the imposition - as has been said - of ambitious anti-pollution standards on car manufacturers, despite the pressure of mrs merkel, the massive construction of more energy-efficient housing, training in more sober technologies, international trade based on cooperation rather than competition, massive long-term investments, the consideration of the notion of the common good, to name a few serious attacks on liberal globalisation.
the fight against climate change will not be a smooth one.
(applause from the left and centre)
the agenda calls for the continuation of the debate on climate change.
mr president, we are faced with a fourfold challenge: firstly, the climate risk itself and the political will to deal with it; secondly, international participation in the fight against climate change; and thirdly, the innovation needed to change the way energy is produced and used; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information available to the public.
i would be tempted to say: what is europe waiting for to really open the debate on nuclear energy?
the alternative of renewable energy is certainly an attractive solution, but we have no choice but to be realistic.
the former accounts for 0.05% of world energy consumption.
given the enormous growth of china and india, will energy resources be sufficient?
what will be the effects of growth on the climate?
we do not necessarily have all the answers to these questions, but we are certain that action is needed within the framework of a european and global strategy, because energy is a vital need and we must put a stop to the phenomenon of global warming.
i support the ambitious targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020, because the european union must send a strong signal to change behaviour, to think differently, to find innovative solutions, to have a say on the international stage.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy policy.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a european communication campaign, supported by the media, to show european citizens the simple steps that everyone can take to help protect the climate.
at the very moment when international experts are meeting in paris to discuss climate change and its consequences, it is a strong signal that we are meeting to discuss the same subject.
global warming is not a fantasy created by a few scientists and politicians looking for publicity, it is a reality that we must now deal with.
and it's our role as legislators to make rules to limit the consequences of climate change.
this is the case, among other things, with the commission's proposal to include aviation in the emissions trading system.
however, we must be careful how we decide to implement this mechanism, because the aim is not to put european airlines at a disadvantage or to curb the growth of air traffic, but to limit its impact on climate change.
and if we are to have a real impact on co2 emissions, i would like the union to legislate also on other modes of transport, particularly in the automobile sector.
so i have only one hope, that global warming continues, so that the little europeans go to school in the middle of the dunes, on their little camels, and exercise.
for some key sectors, the strategy emphasises sustainable development, from an ecological as well as an economic point of view.
too often, business founders are reluctant to start a business because they do not have a good grasp of the legal environment, especially when they set up in another member state.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, beyond this negotiation, what is at stake is the european union's willingness to offer small and mediumsized enterprises the favourable environment they need and to use access to public procurement as a formidable lever for growth and employment.
i voted in favour of the excellent report by my lithuanian colleague, danuté budreikaitè, on mainstreaming sustainability in development cooperation policies.
it rightly recalls that sustainable development is based on the idea that the needs of the present generation must be met without compromising the ability of future generations to meet theirs.
it is good to regularly introduce the concepts of sustainable development into european and member state public policies: economic prosperity, social cohesion and respect for the environment.
the global affirmation of the concepts of sustainable development must be based on the strength of the european union, one of whose essential missions is this.
whether it is fisheries, climate change, biodiversity protection, agriculture, tourism, infrastructure funding, support for education, health, the fight against corruption, support for democracy, in particular for the parliaments of these states, the use of the euro, etc., there are many issues where the european union's presence can bring undeniable added value, but much remains to be done.
in the years ahead, this political dialogue must also enable us to tackle together a major issue: global warming.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the constant increase in the waste we produce and the need to revise the 1975 text, the european commission last year proposed an amendment to the existing framework directive.
the proposed measures to prevent waste and thus reduce the volume of waste produced are not sufficiently concrete and are not binding.
the commission's proposals on hazardous waste are also inadequate in relation to existing community legislation.
the objective of merging the texts in order to simplify them and improve their implementation must not be seen as weakening the provisions on the treatment of hazardous waste.
as far as waste is concerned, no backsliding can be tolerated, especially when it is hazardous.
when you mix hazardous waste with other waste, you don't remove the hazardousness.
we cannot support the possibility of exemptions from the requirement to hold an operating licence when dealing with hazardous waste.
as regards the concept of energy recovery from waste, i understand the aim, but it is dangerous to confuse recovery with energy recovery.
there is nothing to prevent the recovery of energy produced during incineration operations even if the latter is classified as waste.
such a proposal, which would make it possible to classify incineration as a recovery operation and not just as a disposal operation, would put waste recovery and energy recovery on the same level.
but above all, it is contrary to the five-level hierarchy adopted by the committee on the environment and, therefore, to the objective of preventing and reducing waste.
the waste problem is a major social issue which merits ambitious legislation.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we produce daily household, industrial and mining waste which is very difficult to dispose of.
waste management is complex and raises the question of our ability to respect the environment and health, but also our own european policies.
this second directive, a revision of the waste directive, cannot be concealed behind the simplification of existing arrangements.
the waste is constantly increasing: 3.5 tonnes per capita per year, or 460 kg more in ten years.
like many citizens living near incineration plants, i am concerned that the union is not giving more incentives for waste prevention and recycling, for example by setting up genuine recycling channels.
we must drastically reduce the use of incineration and prevent it from gaining energy recovery status.
on the contrary, it is important to increase recycling, with a target of 50% of municipal waste and 60% of other waste by 2020, with a gradual decrease in landfilling and incineration of all materials that can be reused, recycled or composted.
i would also draw your attention, madam president, to the incorporation of the dangerous waste directive into the new regulation.
dangerous waste must be strictly controlled, it must be traceable and subject to a very strict authorization system.
we agree to prevent and reduce the impact of waste, commissioner, but to give in to the ease of incineration would not be acceptable.
mr president, i would first like to warmly congratulate our colleague, mrs jackson, on her very good work, which reflects the quality of her expertise on the delicate issue of waste management.
what is important is first of all prevention, which is to reduce the volume of our waste and which really requires a lot of effort, and recycling.
the recovery is therefore necessary, in the absence of other solutions, but with high energy efficiency.
on this point, i also welcome the introduction in the report of the principle of the responsibility of waste producers on the one hand, and of the control and traceability requirements for hazardous waste on the other, which also cover the provisions governing the necessary authorization of treatment facilities and transport controls.
finally, on the amendments concerning co-products or by-products, i am strongly opposed to a definition which would exempt certain wastes from environmental protection obligations; this definition would allow waste, considered as co-products, to escape waste legislation and not be subject to traceability and transport authorisation requirements, or in some cases to the reach regulation applicable to products.
this seems to me particularly dangerous because there is then a risk of a general declassification of all waste streams meeting these criteria.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we should welcome the fact that our parliament is making bolder proposals than the commission on the recycling of waste.
environmental dumping of waste must be combated inside and outside the union.
it is about saving the planet, but also about fighting against relocations due to non-compliance with basic environmental rules.
all waste produced in the union, including waste from ships chartered by european companies, must be treated in the union by job-creating industries under public responsibility.
i want to see the model plant for methanation and the multi-line recovery of waste that the union that owns my town has built.
mr president, like all our colleagues here, i believe that we need a clear european framework to tackle the great challenge of responsible waste management.
i also think we all share the view that the new european waste strategy must make it possible to see in each of them not only a source of pollution to be reduced but also a potential resource to be exploited.
i would also like to say that i fully support the amendments to consolidate the definitions, in particular those on end-of-life waste, the responsibility of the producer of waste and prevention.
finally, i believe that it is important, as has also been stressed by many of our colleagues, to strengthen the regulation on hazardous waste, in particular by imposing separate collection and reliable traceability.
firstly, we need to set quantified targets, particularly for the reduction of waste, which our committee on the environment has rightly set as a long-term obligation.
this is important for the protection of the environment, but also for limiting our vulnerability in terms of the supply of raw materials, which we know are highly contested in the world.
of course, energy production is better than landfilling, but let's not get confused: incineration is disposal.
thirdly, we must strengthen the principle of proximity and self-sufficiency in waste management, especially in the various forms of disposal and incineration, otherwise we will see the development of an almost uncontrollable phenomenon of waste transport, with an increase in the greenhouse effect and the risks of environmental dumping.
a weakening of the principle of proximity to create a large waste market would benefit the large economic groups concerned and not the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
so yes, to protecting the environment and fighting climate change at european level.
yes, to a common energy policy which guarantees secure supplies at affordable prices, while not excluding any energy source which could guarantee our independence.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the environment committee of parliament on the excellent work they have done.
we must act, because waste management policies do not always promote recycling and composting, and unfortunately landfilling and incineration remain the majority.
i am in favour of the five-tier hierarchy of waste management methods (prevent, reuse, recycle, recover, landfill) because i believe that the objective of reducing waste must be a priority and that a waste prevention policy should therefore be given priority.
i am satisfied with the exclusion of excavated land from the list of waste, for the sake of simplification.
on the other hand, i think it is necessary to draw a clear distinction between recycling and recovery and to regulate incineration practices in order to create a real energy recovery which should not pose a risk to human health and the environment.
i support the proposal to extend the responsibility of waste producers to all, in accordance with the polluter pays principle.
environmental harmonization, we are getting there, we are making progress.
the european council must reaffirm that the solution to our economic difficulties lies largely in better implementation of the lisbon strategy, including productive public spending in the service of investment, research and development, energy and the environment.
the combination of economic, social and environmental reforms at national and european level is the only way to achieve our common objectives of improving competitiveness and creating more and better jobs.
the european council will also adopt the energy action plan to guarantee security of supply, competitiveness and respect for the environment.
i would like to draw your attention to the potential impact of the very ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for 2020 envisaged by the commission, because, while the aim is entirely laudable, it is necessary to ensure that a balance is struck between the ecological principles and the maintenance of the competitiveness of our companies.
on the other hand, it must do better on policies which require at least a european level of decision-making and which represent genuine european added value: energy, climate, security, immigration, to name but a few.
so yes, let us put an end to the most aberrant schemes which encourage overproduction and have too many harmful effects, but please, madam commissioner, fight with us and put in the means to promote quality wines, to value the variety of tastes and territories, to preserve soils and biodiversity, and finally to make known to the whole planet this wonderful alchemy which wine has been in europe for over two millennia.
however, the financing needs of rural development policy are real and i am very much afraid of an increase in the desertification of our rural areas if nothing is done to modernise agricultural structures, to renew generations of farmers, to improve the quality of life and the environment, and to diversify the economy of our countryside.
we must therefore seek to ensure a rational use of frequencies to guarantee universal coverage in the 27 countries of the union, with a view to sustainable regional development.
frequencies are a resource, a public, common, strategic asset for the union, and we must achieve sustainable spectrum efficiency.
in the same way that we talk about energy efficiency, i think we can also talk about radio spectrum efficiency.
so if we have to take this situation into account by being fair and just; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the radio spectrum is not used in a way that would be harmful to the environment.
under the guise of financing national development programmes, the commission is in fact financing measures to improve the business climate, investment and trade.
the effectiveness of its aid instruments is a key prerequisite for sustainable aid that meets the needs of developing countries.
finally, budget support allows recipient governments to take a more assertive role in the coordination of development aid: this active approach creates the spirit of partnership needed to address the problems of appropriation and sustainability of aid.
there are many levels: the level of regional fisheries organisations, the level of the member states, the european level; it is at all these levels that action is needed, in a transversal way, involving dg/fisheries as well as dg/environment, dg/development and dg/commerce.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
we have just been talking about the baltic oil pipeline; it is true that when we demand the greatest possible security in terms of sustainable development, we have to make choices between this and that objective.
as regards the priorities, which are dealt with in paragraphs 2 to 10 of the motion for a resolution, we shall carry out our activities in accordance with the guidelines proposed, including in the energy field.
it has rightly attracted the attention of several speakers and i can tell you that in the business plan for the next three years we have decided to lend at least eur 4 billion a year to energy projects, including at least eur 800 million for renewable energy.
we have also set ourselves a rule, which may not be easy to follow, but it is the rule we have set ourselves: we want at least half of the new electricity generating capacity we are called upon to finance to be linked to renewable energy sources.
another area of our energy activities will of course be the improvement of energy efficiency.
i can tell him that we are already financing programmes in several member states to renovate social housing in order to improve its energy efficiency, and we are of course prepared to step up our action in this area, which, as you said, is crucial for our future.
to return now, in a more systematic way, to the various forms of cooperation with the commission which commissioner almunia mentioned, i would like to say that there are in fact three important new initiatives: the jeremie programme, which is a very original programme to transform structural funds into renewable financial instruments; the jaspers programme, which i have already referred to, is a form of technical assistance to help identify and prepare major projects which may be financed by the structural funds.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i think we have a strong agreement on the structural nature of the energy increase.
in this respect, i fully support the intervention of mrs budreikaitė and would like her to urge her group to withdraw the amendment challenging the speculative component of energy price volatility.
we'll have to take measures against volatility; we must, at the very least, and we can, eliminate the speculative component of energy price movements.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the oil price crisis.
a new trend is taking over the planet: the african palm tree, the cereal crops for biofuel or biodiesel, which will lead to a link between the price of food and the price of energy.
the increase in energy prices, despite a favourable euro/dollar parity, remains a factor of instability in the european economy.
it also reflects the over-reliance of our economy on oil: oil prices have soared, while those for other energy sources have remained stable or have risen less.
the emergence of european energy leaders, because only they are able to negotiate on an equal footing with our main suppliers for the benefit of the member states.
promoting a true energy mix based on renewable energy, nuclear energy, energy efficiency and increasing research budgets for future energies such as iter.
while preparing for the post-oil era, these policies would enable the union to remain competitive by ensuring an average cheap energy supply for its economy.
i would like to congratulate katerina batzeli for her work on this issue, which has enormous economic, social, environmental, territorial and cultural implications.
the market is now being cleaned up by phasing out distillation schemes and by focusing on quality, geographical and environmental grubbing-up.
it organises their corporate social responsibility through iso 9001, iso 14001, iso 18001 standards, which ensure a better business relationship with customers, full respect for the environment and full respect for hygiene, health and safety rules.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
patient and professional mobility must be ensured in accordance with the following fundamental values and principles: universality, solidarity, quality, safety and sustainability.
it is in line with our priorities, which are the lisbon strategy, the fight against climate change and its consequences, judicial cooperation, etc., but it forgets the importance of social and social cohesion in the future of the union.
we cannot accept that our priorities in health, education and promotion are neglected for energy.
you have also taken the opportunity to congratulate the commission where appropriate and to call for the introduction of an ambitious climate policy or energy policy, for example, hopefully helping us and the european institutions to work together in implementing these policies.
i would have liked mr whittaker to stay, because he actually questioned the whole climate change issue.
if he had looked at reality instead, he would have realised that we have already become poorer because of climate change.
climate change is already costing today’s society and this is a way to improve our competitiveness, to be in the lead, to say that we can show the rest of the world how we combine the best of environmental technology and the best of our knowledge society in europe with being ambitious in aiming to use a sustainable source of energy for the future.
let me thank all of you who have given practical examples of what needs to be implemented, because, before we know it, we will also see environmental refugees as a result of climate change and these problems.
the liberalization of transatlantic air traffic will indeed boost the growth of our airlines as they face today the rising price of kerosene, increasingly stringent safety constraints and a future contribution to the fight against global warming.
the second is to claim to encourage corporate social responsibility when all the policies of the european union, and in particular competition policy, encourage companies to relocate, to seek the so-called tax, social, environmental and labour cost minimum, including within the eu.
a first round of negotiations ended today, and the climate seems very constructive.
the european council of 8 and 9 march - you have just mentioned it - has shown that the eu can act with 27 member states, even in areas where citizens expect us to act in particular: energy and climate protection, for example.
this includes energy and climate protection, a viable european foreign and security policy and, of course, the need to deal effectively with the threats posed by terrorism and organised crime without compromising human and civil rights.
but one message seems to me particularly important if we are to rebuild people's confidence in europe: europe stands for a model of society that combines economic competitiveness with social and environmental responsibility.
this is exactly what we are now doing on climate change and energy.
(applause)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the decision taken at last week's european council is to set common and ambitious targets in the field of energy and climate change.
the current context is marked by five key challenges: demography, globalisation, multipolarity, energy and global warming, not to mention the fight against terrorism.
so i suggest to you: you have spoken about climate, then be brave in this area!
the objectives are: the climate target of two degrees of warming at most, that's got to be in for the next 50 years.
to use resources more efficiently, not only energy, but also water, paper, copper, aluminium.
and: in 50 years, the european union will get 100% of its energy from renewable sources.
and if you are talking about climate, you have to say: we need a stability pact.
the first is that if we do not want this new social tone to remain a dead letter, it must be accompanied by an action plan, a revival of the european social agenda, perhaps even a council which is dedicated, as the last one was to the energy and renewable energy objectives, to the implementation of these social objectives.
mr president, the commissioner for the environment, mr dimas, was speaking at the end of this summit of groundbreaking decisions.
it is true that climate policy is finally being integrated into the economic policy of the european union.
i am in favour of the development of renewable energy but it is only a partial answer to the problem of global warming.
of course, we have to think about energy efficiency, insulation of buildings.
solar energy is to be promoted, but we do not have enough artisans trained in these new technologies.
i regret the council's timidity in admitting that nuclear energy is one of the effective responses to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
mrs merkel wants the european union to be a pioneer in the fight against global warming.
everyone agrees, but it is only hypocrisy when we know that some member states, which today reject nuclear power, buy energy from this source when they need it for the survival of their economies.
it is still hypocritical for mrs merkel to want to fight co2 and at the same time to strengthen her policy of coal-fired power stations for electricity production, when we know the disastrous effects on the environment.
finally, hypocrisy, commissioner, when you expect industry to make efforts but the german presidency protects the large cylinders of cars which consume too much energy and emit too much co2.
our priority must be the creation of a genuine euro-mediterranean socioeconomic area, integrating all social and environmental issues into the economic sphere.
ladies and gentlemen, we know that the participation of civil society in the process and the democratic and parliamentary control of euro-mediterranean policies are the key to the revival of a virtuous dynamic, a dynamic for peace, a dynamic for sustainable development and for human rights.
the commission also stressed that the eu had a clear policy on the environment and that it was not prepared to accept the new approach.
the resurgence of nationalist rhetoric and the stagnation of reforms do not make it easier to start a sustainable process.
as a result of an extended election campaign, the reform agenda stagnated and the political climate turned sour, reflecting a zero-sum mentality, as mrs pack said, leading to nationalist rhetoric and tensions.
this sector embodies the sustainability, high technology and growth potential of europe and makes a significant contribution to the achievement of the lisbon strategy's objectives for growth and jobs.
the political environment is the responsibility of the political authorities.
i would like to conclude by addressing the issue of climate protection and environmental sustainability.
the european aviation industry has already taken up the technological challenge in 2000. in the vision 2020, industry, science and policy have jointly defined ambitious goals and challenges for a sustainable aviation system.
the aim is to reduce specific fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions by 50% by 2020, specific nitrogen oxide emissions by 80% and take-off and landing noise by half by 2020. achieving these ambitious goals in just over a decade will require a concerted effort by all actors.
this joint technology initiative will enable the european aerospace industry to take up the challenge posed by the climate debate to the aviation industry.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
one, to put the airplane product back where it belongs and not above industrial logic and not above environmental laws.
other means of transport and other energy-producing elements can be produced.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the community's energy policy.
secondly, they have expertise in the management of public services, such as water, health, education, urban planning, waste management, environment, etc.
these good responses will be the result of new governance: the mayors of these municipalities, in particular, will have to be both operational in terms of power - the application of their legal powers - but also operational as an animator for all these issues of waste, water, health, etc., and this is where the support we will be able to provide will allow them, at the same time, to be operational thanks to their legal powers and to play fully their role as animator.
we don't know for sure, because a study cited by mr arif himself predicts negative social and environmental impacts in the short and medium term.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
a successful khmer rouge tribunal will contribute significantly towards eliminating the climate of impunity in cambodia.
(the sitting was closed at 5.05 p.m.)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
europe has shown the way on the crucial energy and climate issue, europe has decided to equip itself with the institutional tools to face the great challenges and make its voice heard, this is how europe must function and act, this is how our citizens, and in particular the younger generations, will take ownership of this project, which is more modern than ever.
in this context, it is questionable whether the current supervisory system in the european union - supervisors under very different supervisory structures with very different competences, powers and responsibilities and acting on the basis of a national mandate - is capable of ensuring good supervision of large cross-border financial groups, whether it is sustainable and whether it does not endanger the financial stability of the european system itself.
it addresses a range of expectations on the part of the public and of consumers; expectations about food quality, care for the environment, animal welfare and opportunities for developing the countryside.
on the one hand, it is generating a growing demand because it is a mode of agriculture that creates jobs, preserves the environment, biodiversity and, ultimately, our health.
it may be a small issue in terms of quantity, but it is a huge issue in political and symbolic terms because organic farming is also a form of vanguard for a necessary reorientation of the common agricultural policy towards a much more sustainable agriculture.
we have had to lament the sinking of the erika before, a catastrophic sinking with pollution at sea and very difficult salvage of the wreck, and the sinking of the prestige, which you know better than anyone as a spanish national and which had hit the coast very widely.
the charterer and the shipowner, but damage to third parties, in particular environmental damage.
in order to take on the new long-term challenges, in particular the fight against terror and arms proliferation, poverty and disease, organised crime and illegal migration, climate change and threats to our energy supply, we need a fully joined-up foreign policy – one which includes common foreign and security policy aspects, but also goes well beyond.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
this would be the best way to ensure sustainable eu funding that is at the same time acceptable to national parliaments.
moreover, this hypothesis had already been raised, but was rejected at the berlin agreement in 2000. it does not seem to me to be wise to base the new direction of the cap - which is necessary in order to be fairer, more in line with sustainable development - on this basis of co-financing by the member states.
secondly, i fully share your views on the new challenges facing cohesion policy, both internally and as a result of global trends, in particular your views on the impact of demographic trends, climate change and increasing pressure from dynamic competitors.
despite the fact that climate change is a major topic - i would remind you of the stern report, the conclusions of the ipcc - the commission proposal dilutes the notion of sustainable development.
we can recall, madam commissioner, our fight to obtain, at the time of the financial perspective, a boost of 100 million euros for environmental protection, which the commission immediately reduced by 50%.
while it has been so difficult to obtain funds for the environmental programme, i note how easy it has been to find additional means to finance the frontex agency as an instrument to combat illegal immigration.
these budgetary signals illustrate how much the financial perspective limits our room for manoeuvre and demonstrate, once again, that the environment budget is still a sore spot.
despite the urgency and importance of the environment to our citizens, this budget is severely limited to meet the challenges of combating climate change and the erosion of biodiversity.
the renewable energy and energy efficiency fund and the global climate alliance must enable the acp countries, and africa in particular, to embark on a development which more openly integrates the environmental and social pillars than we have done, and thus to give value to the notion of sustainable development.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
to reach this figure, checks are too often carried out on ships in good condition; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant exemptions from the general rules on the protection of the environment.
in this sector, shipping is gaining momentum every year and could bring real environmental and economic improvement.
i therefore fully support the commission's initiative to create, on the basis of a body of legislation, a defence mechanism to protect europe from the risks of pollution and accidents at sea.
this sad fact is unfortunately shared by the seafarers' trade unions, environmental associations and elected officials of all stripes.
it is europe's fault that there is so much imprudence, it is europe's fault that ships are allowed to sail in this state, it is europe's fault that it is unable to compensate for the resulting ecological disasters.
so we have a package of seven particularly coherent pieces of legislation in a european maritime environment which is, it must be said, probably one of the most fragile and risky in the world.
on the other hand, i am not in favour of amendments nos 55 and 56 concerning the establishment of environmental and human maps of the coastline, since the commission has already proposed that the description of environmental and social factors should be part of the constituent elements of a 'place of refuge' plan.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) (com (2007) 0267).
the commission can accept in part amendments nos 6, 10, 12, 21, 26, 29, 31, 34, 35, 36, 37, 40, 42, 46, 56, 68, 70, 71, 93, 96, 107, 109, 111 and 116, which are not in the same spirit as the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
we all agree that today’s use of natural resources is not sustainable.
indeed, the sustainable use of natural resources is a common challenge for all of us as policymakers, as companies and as citizens, both in europe but also globally.
the forthcoming action plan on sustainable consumption and production will focus on the eco-design of products, on making procurement greener and on measures that help consumers make better choices.
actions will start from food, housing and transport, the sectors with the highest environmental impacts.
just one month ago the commission published a green paper on the use of market-based instruments in energy and environment policy, and i am committed to looking beyond gdp when we assess the economic, social and environmental progress of our societies.
as i highlighted earlier, a number of ambitious targets related to resource use are already in place, for example the strategy’s over-arching goal to decouple negative environmental impacts from growth on a european and global scale.
we will assess the need to set an overall target for resource efficiency in the context of the review of the resource strategy planned for 2010. the resource strategy is a big step forward, tackling environmental impacts in a lifecycle approach.
this applies to politics and economics as well as to energy security and climate protection.
i believe that concrete joint action is the most sustainable way of underpinning the importance of transatlantic cooperation for the future.
in addition to cooperation on political and security issues, the focus will be on strengthening the transatlantic economy and intensifying cooperation on climate change and energy policy.
the summit will also focus on energy security and climate change, which the presidency sees as key issues for the transatlantic future.
we agreed on far-reaching climate targets and adopted an energy action plan at the spring summit on 8 and 9 march.
there have been repeated differences of opinion, including fundamental ones, between the eu and the us over the last years and decades, especially on climate protection issues.
i am convinced that energy security and climate protection are one of the transatlantic projects of the 21st century!
we will identify at the summit specific policy areas where we can make sustainable progress.
these include regulatory cooperation in the areas of industrial goods, energy, innovation, financial markets and investment.
the preparations for the summit are not yet complete, and a central theme is climate change and energy.
the work on the european side builds on the european consensus reached at the european council on 9 march 2007 that we need to act globally to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i hope that the transatlantic summit declaration will prepare clear positions for the g8 and the un climate conference in bali in december 2007. we will also discuss energy security and energy efficiency issues and identify common objectives for the development of clean technologies and their use in the short and medium term.
(applause from the centre)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i was pleased to learn that, like us, the u.s. congress has established a temporary committee on climate.
the directive, which has been revised much more ambitiously than the european commission had originally proposed, and which was led by mrs vlasto, is a step towards increasing maritime safety in the interests of europe's coasts, the environment, businesses and citizens.
this report raises the debate on potential improvements to the eu's competitive environment, in particular for private actions for damages for infringements of competition law brought before civil courts.
i voted in favour of the report on a thematic strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources.
the report could have been more ambitious, structured and documented, but it is nonetheless a good document to be used in this difficult area of sustainable development.
in the aftermath of the erika and prestige oil tanker disasters, the european socialists fought for eu legislation to improve maritime safety and prevent accidental pollution in its territorial waters this fight has borne fruit, but the creation of a genuine european maritime safety area is not yet complete.
as a result of this, the commission published its report on the long-term sustainability of public finances in october 2006 and emphasises the importance of addressing the sustainability challenge in the context of ageing-related expenditure.
i also support your suggestion to promote the exchange of best practice on housing and on sustainable urban development in general.
that is why, in this new initiative on the regions for economic change, we have provided for the possibility of setting up a network related to developing sustainable and energy-efficient housing stock, and we hope that before the end of this year this network will be operational.
we expect, madam commissioner, in the coming months, thanks to the studies and work you will be carrying out, to have a clarification, knowing also that, at the same time, various departments of the commission - environment, transport, etc.
firstly, they would be a waste of taxpayers' money.
the european union's regional policy must help to improve the innovation capacity of our regions, in order to reduce development disparities and support sustainable and balanced economic growth, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and solidarity.
such a project would also have the merit of promoting a more rational use of energy, giving priority to clean energy, exploiting local conditions and increasing the share of renewable energy sources.
the outer rim is intended to become a centre of excellence in terms of innovation, both scientific, technological and architectural, with the dual objective of guaranteeing the safety and comfort of the overseas populations and enabling the sustainable development of these territories.
nuclear energy is a separate energy with military and strategic implications, heavy environmental and safety constraints on installations and populations, and a real political and even 'emotional' dimension.
it cannot solve the energy challenges or the so-called climate challenges facing european states today on its own, but it remains unavoidable in many ways.
and this is under the influence of an energy policy which is being pursued in brussels, and which we reject not only as being relevant but also as being legitimate.
energy policy must be the sole responsibility of the member states.
they are also strongly influenced by poor urban planning, which causes some neighbourhoods, affected by environmental degradation - air and water pollution, noise, waste, congestion, etc.
this will contribute to the social and territorial cohesion of the union while ensuring the financial sustainability of national healthcare systems.
we also know that when it comes to the environment, everything is intertwined.
the protection of biodiversity, it has been said, must be done at all levels of public policy: transport, agriculture, land use planning, tourism, fisheries, etc.
it is hoped that the work of the interim committee on climate change will make progress on the cause and effect link between this phenomenon and the loss of biodiversity.
i strongly support the request to the commission to assess their impact on ecosystems and the potential risks they pose to biodiversity.
let us not forget that man is part of the biodiversity.
at a time when the attention of citizens and the media is focused on climate change, it is necessary to recall the importance of biodiversity, because, against climate change, there is no better strategy than to promote the dynamic evolution of ecosystems: the commissioner very well recalled this a few moments ago.
in this spirit, political will and the capacity of government to open dialogue are imperative to develop and support networks of environmental exception, such as natura 2000. in contrast, ex situ management of biological diversity is more like a conservation practice for animal and plant species.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
in terms of biodiversity, water is a medium that provides the dynamics of ecosystems from above.
for this reason, it is essential to ensure that freshwater is not deteriorating rather than relying on a vague notion of good ecological status.
biodiversity, more than a priority, is a necessity and urgent action is needed to halt the decline of biodiversity by 2010. the european union is the first to set itself real objectives in this area, and we hope that it will set an example for the rest of the world.
sustainable development, sustainable hunting, are not just buzzwords, but they are symbols of a change in industrial, production and hunting practices.
the commission has also been working on a number of projects in the field of the environment, in particular the habitats and wildlife protection foundations, which have been carrying out effective actions for several years.
i therefore want hunting not to be stigmatised but to be supported in its efforts to ensure good environmental management.
i can only regret the wording of article 20 which makes hunting partly responsible for the degradation of biodiversity, thus failing to take account of the existence of sustainable hunting.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of a particularly long journey, and to conclude this conciliation on the financial instrument for the environment life+, i would first like to thank my fictitious rapporteurs: cristina gutiérrez, frédérique ries and marie-noëlle lienemann.
i would also like to thank the services of parliament and the committee on the environment.
i think we can thank the minister, mr gabriel, and the council representatives who made it possible for the conciliation to succeed because i remember that on the evening of the conciliation it sometimes seemed as if we were dealing with budget ministers rather than with environment ministers.
we as members of parliament were in favour of a strong budget for the environment ministers, whereas they gave the impression that they were not too keen.
in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs kratsa, who chaired parliament's delegation to the conciliation, and mr ouzký, chairman of our committee on the environment.
i would remind you that work on this life+ report began at the same time as the examination of the financial perspective, since we considered that a life+ budget, which falls within the budgetary envelope for the environment for the next seven years, could not be established outside the financial perspective.
that is why we have been forcing the matter before the committee responsible for the financial perspective, and in particular before mr böge, because we felt that the environment budget for the next seven years was a mere shell budget and that it should be increased.
a hundred million for life+ is ridiculous in the face of the needs we have, the needs we are showing to our fellow citizens: the fight against climate change, the fight against the depletion of biodiversity, the cleaning up of our soils, the cleaning up of our rivers, the fight to save our groundwater, and so on.
that is why our aim was to get the council to accept that the management of the environment budget should remain at the level of the commission.
i think we have achieved a great success, since the council, in the conciliation procedure, did accept several things: that management be centralised, that is to say, that it be carried out at european level, for the budget of the european union, that the commission double its resources for environmental management, that is to say, that from 1% we go to 2%, that 50% of the budget be allocated to biodiversity and nature protection and, finally, that the 2007 budget can be applied this year and that ngos can obtain financial resources as from this year.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate mrs isler béguin, who has put a lot of energy, skill and talent into bringing about this very positive decision today.
the political signal given by our assembly is clear: we want to defend environmental policies with budgets, because, while it is important for europe to set standards and set objectives, it is equally important that it should provide financial resources to enable local action, to enable innovations, exchanges of experience and new practices.
environmental policies are those considered to be the most legitimate by all the members of the european union, considered to have this community dimension.
it is very important that practices unite different countries with common objectives, which sometimes do not see the link between them, for example, in terms of biodiversity, and which can, thanks to life, have the opportunity to show the convergences of their mobilization and exchange of experience.
finally, commissioner, i would like to conclude by expressing my hope that the commission, as it has promised to our rapporteur, will take a good look at all the appropriations that are being mobilised for natura 2000, since it is essential that this great fight for biodiversity can be supported locally, since in many cases, on the ground, we are still doubtful or not always aware of the issues at stake.
madam president, i am pleased to open this debate on the proposal on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy, which complements the water framework directive, which is the centrepiece of water protection for the european union.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for its considerable efforts.
i would also like to thank the committee on industry, research and energy, the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on fisheries, and in particular the draftsman and draftswomen, mr rübig, mrs bourzai and mrs corbey respectively, for their very constructive and supportive input on this important file.
protecting rivers, lakes, the coastal and marine environment from pollution caused by hazardous substances is a key priority for the commission.
however, as we solved some pollution problems, others emerged.
the chemical cocktail in our waters has become more complex and the sources of pollution are no longer concentrated at one point but are widespread and diffuse.
to tackle the pollution problems caused by these dangerous substances the commission has proposed or adopted more than 30 community acts since the water framework directive was agreed.
in summary, i underline again that also in the future the commission is committed to providing the necessary instruments for emissions control where they can result in the most efficient and proportionate action to resolve pollution caused by priority substances.
i shall now turn to the commission proposal for a directive on environmental quality standards for priority substances.
as you know, for marine waters the proposed marine strategy directive will ensure the same level of protection regarding hazardous substances pollution in areas where the water framework directive does not apply.
i underline that the proposed values for quality standards already reflect the risk to the marine ecosystem that these substances may pose.
in addition, the proposal identifies two additional priority hazardous substances and repeals several directives which were adopted between 1982 and 1990. however, the proposal does not include additional measures for emissions controls for the reasons that i outlined earlier.
the commission believes that emissions controls are adequately covered through other existing community legislation such as the directive on integrated pollution prevention and control.
as a closing remark, i would like to emphasise that we share the objective of a high level of protection of the water environment.
it highlighted that, despite the progress, there is much work to be done, in particular by the member states, if we want to achieve sustainable water management by making the implementation of the directive a success.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have just mentioned that chemical pollution of surface waters is a threat to the aquatic environment, to the ecosystem and, consequently, to human health.
the impact studies carried out by the commission have led to the setting of levels for environmental quality standards on the basis of an annual average providing a level of protection against long-term exposures and on the basis of a maximum allowable concentration for protection against short-term exposures.
the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment show the desire to establish common methodologies in order to guarantee an adequate level of protection and to avoid distortions of competition between member states.
we therefore proposed that the states should be allowed to define transitional zones, but with the obligation to reduce these zones in order to ensure that environmental quality standards are eventually met.
we insist on control of emissions.
i would now ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this report so that we can obtain a text which will make it possible to check the effectiveness of the european legislation applicable in the field of the environment, that is to say, which will make it possible to know whether, by the deadline of 2025, we will have succeeded in eliminating the discharges of these substances which are highly toxic to man and the environment.
i would remind you that this framework directive provides for the restoration of good ecological status of surface water and fresh water in the european union by 2015, and i must tell you, commissioner, that we are very concerned about the very slow implementation of this directive.
in any event, the socialist group will ensure that, once the work of the experts and the impact studies are completed, the commission actually strives to achieve the highest level of standards, because, as you know, it is not only the quality of our waters that is at stake, but also the quality of our seas and oceans and consistency with the draft directive on a marine environment strategy, which we have examined at first reading.
i am particularly pleased with the vote in the committee on the environment, because 12 of the 21 amendments proposed by the committee on agriculture and rural development have been adopted.
this is so because cohesion policy is based on a modern paradigm of sustainable development which may be best described as a conditional grant.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i am thinking of population ageing, energy, climate change and also agricultural policy, which undoubtedly influences cohesion policy.
an analysis of the multiplier effect of the structural funds in terms of attracting private investment should make it possible to strengthen cooperation between the public and private sectors, in the interests of a sustainable, polycentric and balanced development of the territory of the union.
in this spirit, the union's structural policy must be a catalyst for initiative, to develop, from the ors, centres of excellence by drawing on sectors that value their assets and know-how, such as waste management, renewable energy, student mobility, climate research, or crisis management.
the other issue, among the many contributions of the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which i would like to highlight quickly, is the environmental issue, in considering that it is not fair that european producers, who have to bear the costs of less polluting production methods, should be competed with by cheap imports from countries which refuse to take their share of the effort to combat global warming.
that is why the committee on economic and monetary affairs is proposing the creation of a carbon tax.
because we are at the service of the european citizens and not of speculative investment firms, we choose cooperation over competitiveness, we choose a rational protectionism based on social and ecological customs duties, we establish controls on exchange rates and capital movements.
from this point of view, mr caspary, i think it is impossible to say that trade policy is not linked to other dimensions: development, the fight against poverty, the environment and social policy.
fourthly - and i will conclude on this point - i believe, as mr junker does, that we must not lose sight of the fact that the union, also through its trade policy, is pursuing the implementation of social and environmental rules.
europe must therefore pursue policies that promote an environment favourable to entrepreneurship, production and job creation.
it must thus be able to protect itself from economic, social and environmental dumping by means of trade defence instruments, which are at present the only palliatives to the absence of globally recognised competition rules.
the second principle is not to weaken the union's commitment to a trade policy for development, a policy that integrates non-trade dimensions such as decent work, access to medicines, the environment or poverty eradication.
the first is that the development dimension of the doha round is no longer a priority in future free trade agreements and the union's new trade agenda, even though the objectives of the union's trade policy should always be fully compatible with, and usefully complement, its development policy, in particular with regard to social and environmental issues.
i welcome this because there is an urgent, urgent need to help developing countries to reduce poverty, to achieve the millennium development goals and to enjoy sustainable economic growth.
only domestically driven policy reform built on firm foundations of good governance and an enabling environment for business and investment can secure the economic growth and development which the acp countries seek.
we want to secure sustainable development, not unsustainable poverty.
so our ambition is clear: to build, through epas, a trade and development instrument which galvanises investment flows, internal demand, private sector activity and job creation and, in so doing, builds a sustainable fiscal base for acp governments to operate, to provide basic services and to determine their own economic future free of wto waivers, concessions and constraints.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
they should be involved as early as possible in the negotiations to consider differentiation in market access and to coordinate their respective support arrangements in order to strengthen their integration into their regional environment.
i regret that the meps are abandoning what they have advocated up to now: a trade policy which consisted of making trade agreements subject to social and environmental requirements while respecting the sovereignty of developing countries in the management of a number of sectors vital to their development (public services, investments, public procurement and competition rules).
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
whether it is institutional recovery, the new dynamic that angela merkel has instilled in the climate and energy sectors, or the establishment of a common immigration policy.
europe needs an economic and trade identity to ensure that our partners follow the same rules as we do in the areas of taxation, the environment and social policy.
we are satisfied that our leaders have raised the european flag and have spoken out loudly and intelligibly on the status of kosovo, on energy, but also on the question of estonian sovereignty.
by voting against the constitutional treaty, many french people thought they were blocking a liberal europe and hoped to influence the development of a social and ecological europe.
yes, so that europe can face the challenges of today - i am thinking of climate change - that will radically transform our lives.
we know that we must go beyond the emergency meeting, that we must stop the embargoes, that we must take action, that we must have a european camp david, with all the parties, israel, palestine and its unity government, but also syria, iran and lebanon, and we also know that we must speak of the right, both rights, perhaps the right of the state of israel to be sustainable, but also the right of the palestinian state to exist, to be recognized.
the report presented to us today formalises our requirements for the implementation of the financing of the trans-european transport and energy networks (tens), in the difficult context we are experiencing where the budgetary resources for the tens have increased from the initially announced 20 billion euro to 8 billion for the period 2007-2013. however, these networks are essential for the future of the european union, helping to ensure mobility throughout the european area and the energy flows that guarantee our independence and solidarity.
our parliament must now be able to exercise its powers of control fully in order to avoid any waste and to ensure that the major infrastructures we so badly need are actually built.
firstly, to propose the creation of a trade and decent work committee within the wto, on the model of the trade and environment committee, which has made significant progress.
the gsp+ is an indispensable lever for sustainable development, good governance and the promotion of fundamental social rights.
this vote avoided any challenge to equal access to care and the financial sustainability of social security systems.
the specific interests of the octs and the octs should be examined, including their involvement as far in advance as possible in the negotiations, in order to consider differentiation in market access, and to coordinate their respective support arrangements in order to strengthen their integration into their regional environment.
(explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
finally, we must also make progress on the social and environmental responsibility of large companies.
madam president, mr minister, madam commissioner, the reports follow one another and are not the same, since we are now dealing with biodiversity.
our committee on the environment, whose chairman, i apologize for his absence, is wondering about the member states' negotiating methods and is asking the european council what the union's key objectives will be at the 14th meeting of the conference of the parties to the cites convention, which will take place, as you recalled, madam president, in the hague on 14 and 15 june 2007. the cites convention is one of the oldest multilateral environmental instruments.
the advantage of this convention over other multinational environmental agreements is its great adaptability.
on the other hand, the convention must take account of new data, including, of course, climate change.
the precautionary principle must therefore be applied with the same rigour as that imposed by the european union in other international environmental negotiations.
these policies are about environmental coherence, about the ability to meet our energy challenges, about social expectations.
it is innovative and represents a real breakthrough for artists, since it takes into account both their precarious situation and the need to maintain the flexibility of their activities and offers solutions that allow artists to envisage their future in a more sustainable way and, therefore, with more serenity.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, an agreement on the institutions is needed on 22 june, an agreement which will allow europe to decide to act in the areas where the union is needed, as the presidency and the commission have said: climate, energy, immigration, security, foreign affairs.
we are confident that the german presidency on 22 june, as it has done previously on climate and energy, will allow political will to prevail over scepticism, that it will be able to move europe forward on a matter that is certainly technical but essential, to enable us to decide on the real issues and on the real values.
access to this technology at an affordable price throughout the union appears to be an essential factor: firstly, to guarantee a quality service; secondly, to promote the competitiveness and productivity of the union as a whole, while respecting the environment, since some physical journeys become unnecessary; finally, to enable the development of a knowledge society by integrating everyone into the information and communication society.
this strategy of the european union is now defined both by the lisbon strategy and by the objectives set out on 8 march last, namely the fight against the effects of climate change and the desire to give the european union the capacity to conduct an independent energy policy.
a word on climate change, in reply to a member of parliament: i fully share your concern about the threat that climate change poses to developing countries and their efforts to achieve the millennium development goals.
i believe that climate change issues must be integrated into development cooperation.
in 2003, we already adopted an eu action plan on climate change and development, which we are implementing jointly with the member states.
i therefore intend to launch a strategy to deepen our collaboration with the developing countries most affected by climate change.
the aim is to work towards a global climate change alliance, which will strengthen dialogue and cooperation between the eu and developing countries on emissions reduction and adaptation to climate change.
another figure: nine resolutions were adopted, i will not mention all of them, only a few will shed light on problems that will arise in the future, such as tourism and development, avian influenza or the energy problem in the acp countries.
the app has demonstrated its ability to address a wide variety of issues and to reach agreement on sensitive issues such as post-conflict rehabilitation, sustainable resource management and economic partnership agreements.
we have spoken at length about this: it must be said that this struggle is being fought by resolving environmental questions, which are still insufficient - and here i am addressing mr cornillet - and which have been taken into account in our work.
i would also like to mention the report on sustainable development which we have produced as part of our work on the action plans currently being put in place by the countries.
mercury management is a major environmental issue.
the reason why europe has more mercury waste to store is that our industries have not anticipated the risks of using this metal, particularly for the production of chlorine.
first lesson: we need to rethink all our production methods very quickly to anticipate a much-needed ecological revolution.
secondly, it is necessary to monitor the storage of waste continuously and regularly.
galileo is not a toy, nor is it the exclusive and symbolic project of a europe based in brussels which wants to make it appear that it is not only concerned with itself, its competences and its sustainability.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the energy and climate package was the first major positive signal.
by convincing eu heads of state and government to commit to ambitious targets for renewable energy and co2 by 2020 to combat climate change, you set the tone.
these advances have been mentioned several times in recent days: the fall in the cost of roaming, voluntary modulation in the field of agriculture, fisheries, the environment, etc.
i shall not go into the extreme difficulty of the task, except to deplore certain remarks which, i say as i think, are not worthy of the sacrifices made by europeans over the last 50 years to ensure a climate of peace and reconciliation among us all.
i would like to make one point: on the one hand, citizens are reassured that europe can act and decide, but citizens in europe have also been excluded from the process, and this will not be sustainable in the long term.
madam president, on behalf of the committee on regional development, i would like to stress that the completion of the internal energy market must be part of the european union's objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
the completion of this contract requires full transparency and full and unbiased information on the origin of energy, in particular when it comes to renewable energy.
in this respect, regional and local authorities should be supported by the european union in their efforts to promote energy efficiency and energy savings, particularly in transport and housing.
we need both major european energy champions and competition for the market to work.
what is needed is price transparency and the avoidance of excessive prices, because energy is a vital need for europeans and for the european economy.
parliament is now considering the candidates for the coordinators for trans-european energy networks.
an energy consumer charter has been launched for public consultation and at the end of september, when the public consultation ends, we could go for the final adoption of the energy consumer charter.
the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council common position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 76/769/eec on the limitation of the placing on the market of certain measuring devices containing mercury (05665/1/2007 c6-0114/2007 2006/0018 (cod)) (rapporteur: maría sornosa martínez) (a6-0218/2007).
i would like to make clear once again the commission's policy on the handling of substances which have been shown to be highly toxic in our environment.
if you don't have to deal with a highly toxic substance in your environment, you don't have to deal with it.
this is also true of the energy-saving lamps mentioned by mr krahmer, which do contain very small amounts of mercury.
i would like to say to you very clearly that it is not in the interests of these small businesses to prevent them from taking the necessary steps to make what they produce sustainable.
and the only way these traditional barometers can be sustainable is if they are made without mercury.
i would like to illustrate very concretely, on the basis of this draft directive and the commission's attitude to it, the liberal dogmatism that is fuelling the crisis of legitimacy of the european economic and social model and the arrogance that is maintaining the climate of mistrust of our institutions.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
i would like to thank our rapporteur, markus ferber, for the quality of his listening during this long journey, and also the rapporteur for opinions, and in particular the rapporteur for our committee on energy, research and technology, hannes swoboda.
the consequences of road accidents, unfair competition, environmental damage, defamation and, more generally, violations of personality rights, etc.
these rules determine the law applicable to non-contractual obligations such as, for example, road traffic accidents, product liability, unfair competition or environmental damage.
i am in favour of limiting the placing on the market for the general public of measuring devices containing mercury, which have been banned in france since 1998. the council's common position, accepted by parliament, strikes a balance between reducing the release of mercury into the environment and providing for a transitional period for certain items such as traditional barometers.
these comments concern mainly the environment, public health and people with allergies.
i voted in favour of the report by my spanish colleague alejo vidal-quadras on the prospects for the internal gas and electricity market, which provided an update on this matter after a long process of liberalising energy markets and, above all, the adoption by the european council in march 2006 of an energy package aimed at ensuring security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability in the field of the european union's energy policy.
the same applies to the role of regulators, the removal of barriers to interconnections, the development of new mass production from renewable energies, the considerable investments in infrastructure to meet growing needs, etc.
it also fails to ensure the availability of energy at the best price for citizens and does not fulfil public service obligations.
why then ask for the energy operators to be de-publicised?
i consider that the asset separation does not provide any guarantees in terms of investment, security or third party access to the network (including renewable energy, which may be penalized by their high costs).
nor does it ensure the availability of energy at the best price for citizens.
in a context of strong competition, with the emergence of powerful non-european operators, it seems to us dangerous to dismantle european energy companies in the name of a dogmatic approach to competition policy, far removed from the industrial logic that should strengthen the european union in world competition.
the european energy supply is a long-term strategic issue which requires ensuring its security beyond the duration of a single contract.
this security of energy supply depends on investments which are already clearly insufficient.
the asset separation means that our traditional energy operators will not be able to make these investments in the energy networks.
it is a comprehensive, balanced report which takes account of the economic, environmental and social aspects of this future maritime policy.
madam president, commissioner, the outermost regions are mentioned several times in the green paper, but they are still largely underestimated in the overall thinking on an integrated approach to maritime policy, despite their geographical location in the indian ocean, the atlantic and the caribbean sea, and despite the fact that these regions are among the most concerned with the question of the sustainable management of seas, oceans and coastal areas.
the creation of a research network on tropical marine biodiversity, netbiome, a project funded under the sixth edp and involving the seven octs and some octs, is an important step forward in the field of sustainable marine management and research and development in the tropical marine environment.
the ors are faced with uncertainties such as tsunamis, cyclones and, of course, global warming, all of which are cataclysmic events that weaken the environment and the seabed.
the question of the balance between tourism and respect for the marine environment is more important in the ors than elsewhere, so that this sector of activity can contribute to the sustainable development of these regions, where tourism is one of the main sources of income.
i would like to highlight four main challenges: reconciling economic development and environmental protection, including maritime safety and marine biodiversity; successful coastal development to coexist port, residential, economic and natural activity areas; moving from a traditional economy to new high value-added sectors such as marine biotechnologies and new energy; the commission's proposal is to set up an effective governance system, which is a political and administrative challenge that is essential for the success of the whole.
this is all the more regrettable in these times of climate change, when the choice of rail is confirmed every day by the news.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you have pointed out before me, the first package was intended to lay the foundations for an integrated european railway area and, by modernising the network, to encourage the transfer of freight from road to rail, in order to reduce co2 emissions and, of course, all the congestion on the roads that europe is suffering from.
we must not be satisfied with unfair competition and monetary, social and ecological dumping.
the eu is also required under the new agreement to denounce the importation into the community market of products which do not comply with environmental and phytosanitary rules (which the eu itself imposes on its community producers).
china is a key player and must cooperate on climate change and energy to strengthen international environmental governance.
innovation is the main theme of the whole set of the energy technology plan, the european institute of technology and the first innovation and technology community which we want to see dedicated precisely to energy issues and the fight against climate change and which we hope will be launched during the portuguese presidency.
this is certainly a clear example of how the renewed lisbon strategy seeks to link the different aspects, in particular this central aspect which has to do with the fight against climate change and energy security.
to achieve the objectives we set ourselves in the european energy and climate policy, we have developed an ambitious and consistent strategy to ensure sustainability, security of supply and european competitiveness.
however, it should be stressed that for the success of this strategy we can only welcome with enthusiasm the conclusions of the european council in march, which mark a historic moment in the fight against climate change and energy.
the technology plan for clean energy technologies is a key pillar of this strategy.
with brazil, our newest strategic partner, we share an ambitious agenda, which includes energy, especially biofuels, which we want to be sustainable, the fight against climate change and trade relations.
the next eu-africa summit, to be held under the portuguese presidency, is a unique opportunity to set an ambitious agenda, including concrete issues such as energy, migration, the fight against climate change and also, of course, democracy and human rights.
(applause) i would like to thank
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
if the member states ratify it by spring 2009, europe will finally be able to decide in an efficient, transparent and democratic way in areas such as security, growth, energy, climate and demography.
mr president-in-office of the council, let us show the same determination for our security as we do for climate and energy.
the future treaty should therefore include the elements which are agreed by all sincere europeans, whether they voted yes or no to the constitution: greater powers for the european parliament and the national parliaments, a stable presidency of the council, double majority voting, fewer blocking minorities, fewer decisions subject to unanimity, particularly for judicial and police cooperation, strengthening of the common foreign and security policy, strengthened and structured cooperation in defence policy which will be easier to implement, new powers in the field of energy and climate change.
we need to have funding mechanisms that are legally secure and sustainable.
encouraging the social partners to agree on significant wage increases, as the social partners in the german metal industry have done, is not only a step towards a better distribution of the fruits of growth, but also, in our view, a contribution to the sustainability of growth by improving household confidence and increasing consumption.
we know that, at national level, the picture is somehow different, since in many cases growth is increasingly concentrated in the capital region or in the main metropolitan areas, which deepens the internal disparities and causes problems related to agglomeration, like transport congestion, pollution, housing price rises and so on.
this includes the challenge of climate change for maritime policy: european maritime policy must play an important role in this area by focusing on reducing co2 emissions from ships, the possible integration of ships into the emissions trading system and the promotion of renewable energy.
a sustainable balance between environmental protection and the commercial exploitation of europe's oceans is essential.
i voted for all the amendments which stressed the environmental dimension of this maritime policy.
it is imperative that the environmental pillar of the maritime strategy is not a mere sentimental addition, but that the restoration of the good ecological condition of the seas and oceans is an imperative objective that conditions the arbitrages in other eu and member state policies.
the deterioration of the ocean ecosystem has serious consequences for the planet and human activities: the disappearance of fish stocks, the reduction of the regulatory role of the climate and the oceans.
the reasons are mainly pollution caused by human activities.
the environmental priority must therefore be firmly affirmed and the future marine framework directive must be binding on the states and the policies of the union.
it should be borne in mind that article 105 of the treaty establishing the european community provides that, without prejudice to the objective of price stability, the escb shall support the general economic policies in the community with a view to contributing to the achievement of the objectives set out in article 2; the commission's objective is to promote the balanced and sustainable development of economic activities, a high level of employment and social protection, a high degree of competitiveness and convergence of economic performance.
if we must have a strong euro to preserve our assets, we must not have a too strong euro to develop sustainable economic growth, especially for exports.
in my view, this would contribute to poverty reduction, enhanced human security and the promotion of human rights and sustainable development.
he did not realize that, given this peculiarity of climate, he needed to set up a real air force of water bombers.
ladies and gentlemen, the current debate has also touched on climate change, prevention, flood prevention, nature conservation strategy, land use planning, construction and many others.
the aim of any internal market strategy must therefore be to transform this disbelief and hostility into confidence in the internal market, on the one hand, by showing the benefits of the internal market and, on the other hand, by pursuing at the same time the objectives of openness and competition and the objective of social cohesion with its various components: environment, employment, culture, access for vulnerable people.
that is why we have emphasized everything that has to do with the quality of life of our fellow citizens: the environmental dimension, consumer protection.
we naturally include energy policy and the fight against global warming in the internal market, as does the opening up of network industries.
i remain concerned about the increase in disasters caused by extreme weather events, which experts believe are largely due to climate change and global warming.
in the face of climate change, it is in the interest of the whole of europe to put in place ambitious prevention policies!
finally, the environmental dimension must be integrated into the requirements of the internal market, which is an asset for the european union provided that these main principles are respected.
but to most, what a waste!
the agenda calls for the report by inés ayala sender, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the logistics of freight transport in europe, the key to sustainable mobility (2006/2228 (ini)) (a6-0286/2007).
i would also like to say what the committee on industry has said: i think that the reports on the environmental aspects of the subject are not given enough attention.
it is clear that we must develop logistics in europe, that transport policy is an accessory to the internal market and its development, but we cannot, on the one hand, have great resolutions on the reduction of greenhouse gases and, on the other, have excessive budgets.
finally, like many other members tonight, i would like to stress the position expressed on the circulation in europe of lorries over 60 tonnes, the giant lorries, which do not meet european objectives either in terms of safety or in terms of environmental protection and sustainable development, as many members have very well emphasized.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for joining your rapporteur in stressing the importance of logistics, not only from an economic point of view but also from an environmental and social point of view.
any measures to improve the efficiency of this mode of transport and to reduce its environmental impact should be analysed.
the consequences of larger or heavier lorries for infrastructure, safety, the environment, the economy of shippers and hauliers, and intermodal competition should be considered.
this is what it is all about and it is always about the women and men who are in charge of this transport activity and who also have to master a whole series of new disciplines to really make transport more efficient and mobility more sustainable, that is to say more suitable for our environmental problems.
the routes of airliners to the different floors of airspace, in order to optimise consumption, reduce greenhouse gases and, if possible, reduce congestion at the busiest airports, not to mention the possibility of reducing the cost of air transport.
europeans need security, security in their working lives, security in their energy supply and food security.
in line with the report's proposals, a geographical area approach and taking account of the specificities of the techniques used would have ensured a more equitable distribution of fishing effort, which would have ensured a sustainable balance between fishing capacity and opportunities.
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague inès ayala-sender in response to the commission communication on freight transport logistics in europe and sustainable mobility.
an ambitious european spatial planning policy, based on massive investment, will be one of the conditions necessary to enable logisticians to do their job well at the best cost and with respect for the environment.
while i welcome the adoption of the inès ayala sender own-initiative report on logistics, which stresses the importance of intermodality for cleaner and more sustainable transport, i can only regret the adoption of paragraph 21, which i had already voted against in the committee on transport.
i voted against this paragraph because the 60-tonne lorries, to which this paragraph has just opened the door, are dangerous for the environment and for the users of our roads, which are not designed to carry such loads.
the arguments of the road lobby are fallacious: the loading capacity of the current heavy goods vehicles is already underused, so the reduction of polluting gas emissions that we are told about in the theme "less vehicles for more goods transported" is a deception.
we have a real problem to solve, which is to put in place a selective credit policy so that the credit rate is set at 0% for the necessary investments of the type of combating climate change and much more expensive for loans geared to speculation.
let us finally be utopian and hope that the use of the financial bubble thus created can finally make it possible to finance the long-term investments that europe needs to meet the climate and energy challenge.
we can invent indicators, a kind of maximum sustainable yield, but if the neighbour fishes more, then fishing less does not improve the state of the stocks.
thirdly, the choice made in the past to opt for minimum harmonisation allowing member states to retain specific national provisions has maintained a fragmentation of the legal environment, so that the existing rules set a minimum european threshold but do not define a single rule of the game.
similarly, economic operators have an interest in a secure regulatory environment and in taking full advantage of an internal market of almost 500 million consumers.
health threats such as pandemic influenza, malaria and tuberculosis are being posed by mutating viruses, increasing resistance to antibiotics and weak health systems new health risks also include foodborne diseases, accidents or chemical, biological or nuclear attacks, industrial pollution and climate change.
i voted in favour of the resolution proposed by various political groups, including the european people's party (christian democrats) - european democrats (epp-ed) on the objectives of the european union in the run-up to the 8th meeting of the conference of the parties to the united nations convention to combat desertification, to be held in madrid from 3 to 14 september 2007. the current global warming is causing, among other things, the drying up of springs by evaporation, the reduction of river flows and the level of groundwater, and thus the destruction of the surface structure of soils.
according to the united nations environment programme (unep), desertification currently affects 25 to 30 per cent of the world's land surface and 1.2 to 2 billion people are at risk in at least 100 countries.
i voted in favour of the very good own-initiative report by my spanish colleague, carmen fraga estévez, in response to the european commission's communication on the application of the principle of sustainability in the european union fisheries by means of maximum sustainable yield (msy).
in an environment of political, social and economic insecurity, issues of human rights are sadly taking backstage, and the most recent detention of political activists is a case in point.
(applause) i would like to thank
mr president, in order to tackle global warming and to put this ambitious roadmap into place, the link between energy and the environment is absolutely essential.
of course, we have repeatedly pointed out that the member states will not reach the 12% renewable energy target for 2010. so how do we get to 20% by 2020?
the commission's development calculation methods do not internalise the environmental costs of energy production and our energy policies remain fragmented, whereas an integrated and comprehensive approach is needed.
in the field of energy, we can do much better and achieve results quickly.
for example, energy efficiency must be developed so that everyone can eliminate unnecessary energy expenditure.
in france, for example, the installation of a photovoltaic panel is part of the combatant's training: no less than seven procedures must be completed to convert the energy consumer into a producer.
what is the union proposing in the framework of the partnership agreements with the acp countries to put renewable energies into practice?
when we talk about solar energy, for example, the poorest of the poor say that this technology is totally out of their reach.
in addition, the union has responsibilities towards third countries which supply it with raw energy materials.
european investments in uranium mines in niger or the chad-cameroon oil pipeline must be accompanied by transfers of clean energy production technologies in the framework of micro-projects.
the energy crisis, mr president, is ecological; it calls for contingency plans and binding policies.
it is urgent to put the package on renewable energy.
this implies: revising european legislation on toys before christmas, calling for the requirement of maximum harmonisation; ensuring that manufacturers comply with safety, social and environmental standards - why not provide for a new european label to reinforce the ce marking?
they don't care about the environment any more than they care about the health of their employees and customers, or the fact that they may be children.
support the european union's commitment to reach an ambitious target of 20% renewable energy in the total share of energy consumed in europe by 2020. the benefits that europe can derive from renewable energy are many: reduction of co2 emissions, reduction of european dependence and contribution to job creation and growth.
however, we must ensure that all renewable energies are developed in a sustainable way and, of course, in accordance with the capacities of the member states, and also that energy is saved - in terms of consumption and energy efficiency.
i regret that the directive on electricity produced from renewable energy sources does not require cogeneration and leads to the setting up of large-scale biomass plants without cogeneration, which are not energy efficient and destabilise the market for industrial wood and energy wood.
i am therefore pleased that the european parliament is calling for a proposal on the heating and cooling sectors to be at the heart of the future framework directive on renewable energies and i have therefore voted for the thomsen report.
i voted in favour of this report, which calls on member states to take the necessary measures to increase the share of renewable energy in their energy mix.
renewable energy sources must become the lever to achieve the dual objective of greater security of supply and a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
the energy efficiency target should not be seen as a precondition for achieving the 20% renewable energy target by 2020, but as a condition in its own right.
this will create new jobs and encourage research and innovation in the energy sector.
renewable energy is one of the best safeguards for consumers and industry against the dual impact of increased energy imports and higher fuel prices.
finally, i welcome the freedom to choose the most appropriate renewable energy sources, given the differences in the development potential of certain renewable energies, inherent in the geological, hydrological and climatic characteristics of the member states.
we strongly support the promotion of renewable energy, whether for transport, for heating buildings, for electricity generation.
we see it, as do all our colleagues here, as a way of protecting the environment, but also of reducing our energy dependence.
firstly, because its real objective is not ecological or even economic, it is dogmatic: it is, as stated in the explanatory statement, to establish a common energy policy at european level and this objective must take precedence over everything else.
energy policy, which is a matter of sovereignty and independence, must be a matter for national competence alone, which in no way precludes cooperation and solidarity.
so yes, renewable energy, but not as a pretext for an extension of the powers of the european union.
i believe that mercosur must be this new entity and that it can enable us to provide together answers, which are both ambitious, balanced and political in nature, to questions of energy supply, reduction of the greenhouse effect and the quality of the products of our agriculture.
of course, we have talked and talked about the importance of brazil on the political, economic, environmental and energy levels, fundamental realities in the contemporary world that we cannot ignore.
the united nations is preparing for the international conference on climate change to be held in bali in december.
yesterday, a preparatory meeting of heads of state and government took place in new york, at which the european union unveiled its very ambitious proposal to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. urban transport is one area where efforts need to be made.
pollution from private and public urban transport of people and goods accounts for 40% of co2 and 70% of other pollutants emitted by road.
second, cleaner cities through improved energy efficiency, through the use of alternative fuels.
we have to consider whether there is no need to promote the ecological dimension of driving in the training of future drivers.
in general, i think we can see clearly from this great debate on urban mobility that it is really about the daily lives of our citizens and that if european citizenship has any meaning, it is also towards safer urban mobility, urban mobility that is more in line with environmental requirements, which we must pursue.
this is a particularly concentrated area of pollution produced by transport, which is known to be the main producer of pollution and greenhouse gases.
so there could be, commissioner, an incentive policy, and sometimes i like to think that it would be very successful if there were, for example, a community programme, urban transports, that is to say, a programme which encourages local authorities to engage in sustainable mobility on the basis of a specifications for sustainable mobility.
madam president, i welcome very much the initiative of the committee on foreign affairs and in particular the chairman, mr saryusz-wolski, to propose a report on a common european foreign policy on energy.
the report serves to underline the growing importance of energy issues in the community context, particularly the external aspects and the importance of the european union speaking with one voice on external energy issues.
this includes the establishment of the network of energy security correspondents (nesco), in addition to the existing gas coordination group and oil supply group.
nesco has been active since the early summer, which has permitted a very useful and early exchange of energy information between member states.
the call for a suitable treaty basis for energy and energy security is particularly important and timely, as is the call for concrete provisions in the treaties that will lead to the creation of a common european foreign policy on energy.
i very much welcome this approach, including the proposal from the committee on industry, research and energy that the principles of the common energy policy be included in the ec treaty at the forthcoming intergovernmental conference, so that there will be a solid basis for joint action in the energy field directed towards third countries.
i also note that the committee has reflected further on the proposal on how to anchor external energy policies more firmly both in the commission and the council.
i believe that this version of the report is also balanced geographically, recognising the importance of enhancing our energy relations not only with our eastern neighbours but also with our mediterranean, middle east, asian and other partners.
i already enjoy the genuine energy partnership with the united states but i do believe that we can achieve more in this area.
i also believe that we need to continue to work with like-minded energy partners, such as norway, canada and australia, to strengthen the consensus on the value of open, transparent and competitive international energy markets.
recognising the value of the energy charter treaty, i agree with the committee that russia’s ratification would be very important.
however, at the same time i firmly believe that the principles of the charter also need to be included in a robust energy agreement within the framework of the post-pca agreement with russia.
i know that each of them per se is important but i believe that most of the issues raised will be covered in the framework of the regular review of the energy action plan or are already covered in the commission’s annual reports on the application of competition law.
finally, with respect to the substance, the commission intends to press ahead with the work in which we are engaged since early last year and which reflects most of the priorities identified in the report, in particular, on the feasibility study to examine the existing legal arrangements in the eu if its neighbours’ energy sectors fall short, and how to strengthen them.
equally, it is important to put concrete proposals on the table on reciprocity, and i welcome the fact that your report recognises the importance of reciprocity measures aimed at protecting our internal energy market.
the commission has been actively working over the past year and a half to reinforce the eu’s external policy on energy and, as the report recognises, there have been a number of significant achievements.
however, we do need to go further and i therefore fully support the call in this report for concrete provisions in the treaties that will lead to the creation of a common european foreign policy on energy.
with energy security, we are talking about the security of our economies and our way of life.
as the eu is becoming increasingly dependent on imports of energy, it is crucial that we have a coherent and focused response to the challenges that this presents, not least in our relations with our major external energy suppliers.
i can also announce that the commission will be a holding a rapid and in-depth review of the wider aspects of the eu’s external policy in energy and that we will definitely make the results of that work public.
it is time for europe to speak with one voice on energy matters, because we are facing serious threats to security of supply, transit and investment.
i regret, however, that paragraph 62 of the report is too emphatic about the total separation of ownership between energy production, transmission and distribution, because there are other solutions to reconcile the establishment of a european energy market with the essential political security we must maintain on the networks.
in international trade, it is necessary to require the inclusion of energy-related chapters in any new trade agreement.
energy has once again become a geostrategic issue.
the european union cannot meet its energy needs on its own, so it is struggling to diversify its sources of supply through trade agreements with countries in latin america, africa and eurasia.
the recent disagreement between the european union and russia on the energy charter indicates that energy security has entered a new era.
in the face of the depletion of oil resources, the continuing danger posed by the atom and the emergence of energy powers such as russia and brazil, it is also essential to reaffirm the european union's policy of sustainable development.
and in this sense, a coherent foreign policy will first reflect the objectives set by the spring european council on renewable energies.
it will also introduce the principle of energy efficiency in our external relations.
energy security implies a loss of sovereignty over a sector which is now strategically important for europe.
the pressure on governments to supply energy must not override our decisions and the principles we have collectively developed.
as our previous president of the european parliament reminded president putin, human rights cannot be negotiated on the basis of our energy needs.
i would also like to point out that while the freezing of land has lost its economic justification, it is of major interest for biodiversity and for the protection of soils and watercourses, an interest which must be recognised and maintained.
the socialist group therefore asks the commission to carry out an environmental impact study on the effects of the removal of the jackfruit trees.
finally, the fact that we are removing the jackrabbits now does not mean that we will solve all the problems that will be at the heart of the cap's balance sheet in 2008 and 2009.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
agriculture is subject to the vagaries of climate.
i voted in favour of this report which aims to establish a common foreign energy policy.
energy has become a real weapon in international negotiations.
since the gas crisis between russia and ukraine in january 2006, the european union has become aware of its fragility in terms of energy supply.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european energy agency, which would be responsible for the coordination of the eu's energy policy.
the high representative for energy will be a dual-hatted figure, under the authority of the new high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy (cfsp) and a vice-president of the european commission.
this will enable the eu to defend its energy security interests in negotiations with external partners.
it's a waste of time.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
(applause from the centre)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
citizens expect europe to act where it is useful: on climate, energy, immigration, innovation, terrorism.
madam president, on the question put by the honourable member, mr groote, concerning co2 emissions: i would like to underline the fact that emissions coming from vessels in connection with maritime transport in absolute terms are lower than in other categories like air transport and even road.
however, on an individual basis, it is true that the co2 emissions coming from individual vessels are significant.
therefore, it makes sense that action is taken and that the shipping industry is encouraged to take the necessary action in order to reduce co2 if we want to maximise the potential for growth with regard to maritime transport – because there is no doubt that there is enormous potential to grow further with regard to maritime transport, but this has to be in conjunction with a reduction in co2 emissions if we want to bring about a situation which makes maritime transport even appear to be much more consumer friendly.
therefore, there should be an international effort and the european union would be prepared to take the lead, within the international maritime organisation, in order to set standards with regard to co2 emissions.
in the absence of progress, the commission would consider other options in order to bring about a situation whereby co2 emissions are effectively reduced.
one can also mention the fact that there are cases where, because of the existing discrepancies, there is, in a way, an incentive to increase co2 emissions.
i welcome the emphasis on the sustainable use of resources, the desire to develop maritime know-how, to promote sustainable employment and to maximise the quality of life of coastal populations.
but more importantly, these regions could be a real laboratory and a place for experimentation and development of marine renewable energies that is absolutely formidable.
i would like the commissioner to reassure us on this point and to confirm that the structural funds, of course, the funds needed for development and environmental protection, will also contribute to the implementation of this policy.
the end of export-oriented agriculture in the context of a global agreement: agriculture in the southern hemisphere, financial, banking and energy services in the northern hemisphere.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i would like to conclude with the environmental problems, because, as soon as air traffic develops, we must of course do everything possible to ensure that this does not interfere with our imperative to combat global warming.
that is why europe has been a little ahead in advocating the idea of bringing air transport into the emissions trading system.
i denounce the increasingly difficult living conditions in gaza: the blockade preventing the movement of people and goods, the partial privatization of access to water, food and electricity, the destruction of agricultural land, basic services such as waste collection that no longer work properly, on the verge of rupture.
i have participated in the discussions in the committee on the environment on these various reports, but i have the impression that the report which mrs klass has presented to us is not the report which was voted unanimously by the committee but rather her personal position.
so i wanted to know if there was indeed a more objective presentation of the position of the committee on the environment on this very important report.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the fight against predators and enemies of crops is a key issue, both in terms of food security and in protecting and improving our environment.
the protection of the aquatic environment is also a very important subject and must be strictly ensured by the delimitation of buffer zones according to local conditions.
as regards the protection of water bodies, it seems more consistent to use appropriate actions, depending on the geological environment, rather than to set a minimum distance for buffer zones.
nevertheless, the text of the committee on the environment is acceptable.
the alde group therefore wants to achieve the following balance: not to penalize any user or industrial actor, but to develop strict, coherent legislation, allowing users to protect their crops, producers to sell less and less harmful products and the public to consume healthy products but also to live in a healthy environment.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioners, while i would like to congratulate mrs breyer on her excellent report, i cannot follow the defence of pesticides made elsewhere because it is absolutely essential to rid our environment and our bodies of dangerous pesticides.
in france alone, the co-management, if i may use the expression, of public policy on pesticides between the state and the chemical industry has, up to now, marginalised citizens' expectations in the field of public health and the environment, in defiance of ecotoxicological studies, to the detriment of statistical research, when they establish links between chemical substances and pathologies, without regard for the recent warnings from the medical profession - and i am thinking in particular of the so-called paris or grenelle call for the environment in france.
but after the pollution of water by the herbicide atrazin, which everyone knows, and the spread of bee populations, the chemical industry is trying to make us forget that france is still the biggest user of the european union.
every year, 70,000 to 80,000 tonnes of pesticides are dumped into our environment in france.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, all the health and environmental data, which i shall not mention here tonight but which we have today, must lead this house to firm decisions on the reduction of pesticides and the conditions under which they are used.
subsidiarity in pesticides, if it is to make sense, must serve a more global reflection on agricultural and environmental issues at the level of each european region.
this requires intensified research and technology transfer, involving all stakeholders, farmers, researchers, ngos, health professionals and the agri-food industry, and conducting in-depth work in each territory to jointly define best practices and non-chemical alternatives adapted to the soil, climate and crops.
but we must move quickly and we therefore support the vote in the committee on the environment which called for the target to be reached by 2012 and for binding targets to be set as early as 2009 so that by 2012 all vehicles, all the targets, will be reached.
so we support this ambitious road map of the environment committee, because we believe that it both gives visibility to standards and imposes the technological gap without which we will not be able to achieve the kyoto protocol.
that is why my group has tabled an amendment requiring that the energy-efficiency a-g label be affixed to every vehicle so that every consumer can have an environmentally friendly practice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur is right when he points out that conventional energy will remain indispensable for a few decades to come.
it is also right to call for diversification of energy sources and supplies, safer and more environmentally friendly production and more efficient use of energy.
first, because much of the advertising is a repetition of the myth of global warming due to man-made carbon dioxide emissions.
however, more and more scientists are questioning not climate change - the climate has always been in constant change - but global warming, the responsibility of co2 in this change and its anthropogenic origin.
secondly, despite the usual circumstances of the primary responsibility of the states for their energy choices, the rapporteur cannot help but want to give them guidance.
i am thinking of the place given to nuclear energy in his report, which remains a highly sovereign choice of each member state and which cannot be considered solely from the point of view of co2 emissions.
coal is a plentiful source of energy.
it seems that with co2 capture and storage technology, the greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants would be solved.
how can we stop co2 emissions with clean coal plants?
after the age of wood energy, after the age of coal, then the age of oil, are we not in danger of returning to the age of coal?
to conclude on a more optimistic note, i would say that the highlight of this report is the proposal for a european strategic plan for energy technologies.
this plan should take into account the necessary diversification of energy sources by 2020, 2030, 2050 and the importance of regional resource use.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
it can have a positive impact on cleaner energy or to achieve ...
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
explain how qualified majority voting, which will become the rule, will enable europe to act in new areas such as judicial and police cooperation, environmental protection, economic policy and immigration.
it will also be able to assert itself as a world leader in the fight against global warming.
europe can now make progress in energy, climate change, immigration policy, the fight against terrorism, economic coordination, foreign and defence policy and development policy.
mr president, 'nothing is possible without people, nothing is sustainable without institutions'.
as rapporteur for the opinion on water quality, i was able to note that pesticides were involved in the degradation of the environment, especially surface and coastal waters, because they are persistent over time, can be transported over long distances, and that it was also a diffuse pollution, difficult to identify, resulting from runoff, direct losses in the soil and in the air, the washing of plants by rain... more broadly, the current use of pesticides in our agriculture can have harmful consequences for our health.
however, i think the targets are not enough and that is why i unsuccessfully supported in parliament's plenary the position adopted by the environment committee calling for a community target of reducing the frequency of pesticide use by 25% over 5 years and 50% over 10 years and 10 m buffer zones between fields and watercourses.
however, it is now clear that the widespread use of these pesticides in agricultural and non-agricultural environments has a negative impact on the environment (pollution of water, air, soil, etc.)
in particular, in the context of the breyer report on the placing on the market and sustainable use of pesticides, i voted in favour of the establishment of strict criteria for all toxic substances (neurotoxic, bioaccumulative, carcinogenic, etc.).
finally, in keeping with the spirit of the french environmental grenelle, i voted in favour of a tax on pesticides which would encourage our farmers to reduce their consumption of pesticide products.
i voted in favour of the klass and breyer reports on the use of pesticides because they mark progress towards a better consideration of the environmental and health impact of the use of plant protection products.
once again, the right wing will have preferred profits... but small steps count, and these reports are one step in the right direction, towards sustainable agriculture of tomorrow and a healthier environment for our children.
the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
it is one of the greenest budgets i know, because there are many provisions, including provisions to save carbon emissions, compensation for all our carbon impact, a desire to finally have a fleet of vehicles with hybrid cars, the desire also to limit some of our meetings by considering videoconferencing, or even limiting the missions of officials who do not necessarily follow us in particular in the places where they are indispensable.
of course, the multiannual budgetary framework for 2007-2013 creates a rigidity which unfortunately does not allow us to pursue, either as firmly or especially as quickly, the objectives we have set ourselves for europe and whose policies constitute, in my view, the only salvation for our european regions by being able to give our fellow citizens the comfort of life to which they aspire in a metamorphosed global environment that is constantly moving and changing.
this will be a major task for all member states, and will require a great deal of energy and expertise.
it is imperative that they take centre stage, whether it is in the discussion of the future agreement or kosovo or energy.
i know that commission president barroso will be very clear here on these matters, especially as regards energy issues, for example.
we have this energy dependence, but we can only really defend our interests if we are clear and strong.
mr president, access to affordable pharmaceutical products in poor developing countries and ldcs is essential to attain the proposed eu development goals and would contribute to poverty reduction, increase human security and promote human rights and sustainable development.
françoise castex voted in favour of the davies report on the reduction of co2 emissions from passenger cars.
while the debate on the environmental grenelle monopolizes france, the european union has in turn added a precious stone to the building block of our environment by approving the reduction of co2 emissions from passenger cars.
françoise castex welcomes the fact that the european parliament has asked the european automotive industry to ensure that new cars emit no more than 120g/km of co2 by 2012. the commissioner said that the eu had a duty to ensure that the eu's energy policy was consistent with the eu's objectives and that the eu's energy policy was consistent with the eu's objectives.
19% of the co2 emissions produced in the european union today come from cars and light commercial vehicles.
it is essential that the european union commits itself to an ambitious and realistic target of reducing the average emissions of all cars placed on the eu market.
effective legislation must first be realistic, and the industry has long placed environmental issues at the heart of its policies.
when we talk about climate change, the priority must be to reduce co2 emissions in absolute mass.
the european parliament has approved the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from cars, and i welcome this.
this will reduce carbon dioxide emissions and thus contribute to the eu's wider environmental and energy independence objectives.
the commission has therefore been delaying its implementation for 12 years, even though technological progress is now making it possible to reduce co2 emissions even more than 12 years ago.
at a time when consumers are increasingly sensitive to the cleanliness of vehicles, reducing co2 emissions from vehicles will benefit the automotive industry, the consumer and, of course, the planet.
this rush, this voracity has consequences of extreme brutality in social and environmental terms, and continues to fuel wars and corruption.
how can we rationalise, control and share access to these resources so that the people concerned can really benefit from them without seeing their environment destroyed?
only moderated, equitable and sustainable economic growth, as a result of commercial activity stimulated by market access, can reduce poverty in a sustainable way.
the european parliament has defended its priorities well in this first reading of the 2008 budget and i support the results achieved by the two rapporteurs, particularly in the areas of cohesion and sustainable growth.
the agenda calls for the report by romana jordan cizelj, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision establishing the statutes of the euratom supply agency (com ((2007) 0119 - c6-0131/2007 -2007/0043 ((cns)) (a60376/2007).
yet these soils are the basis of biodiversity and our food.
they play a prominent role in the fight against climate change.
moreover, with the growing demand for food and energy production, it is essential to safeguard and restore the quality of our soils and to prevent desertification.
why should we have a text on soil protection when we already have a set of regulations on soil, on waste, on pesticides, on nature protection?
added to this is climate change, desertification.
what will be the effect of this degradation and pollution on our environment and our health?
there is such a diversity of soils in the european union that ensuring subsidiarity is essential, while ensuring the protection and sustainable use of soils.
it remains to be seen whether santa's sleigh is part of the community's emissions trading scheme.
operators in the current scheme must also do this to obtain a greenhouse gas permit.
this will facilitate credible verification and thus safeguard the environmental integrity of the scheme by preventing fraud.
finally, i will share with you some concerns we have regarding amendments that relate to limits on the use of non-aviation credits, to the use of a multiplier for non-carbon dioxide effects and to an additional energy efficiency factor.
these amendments all have the effect of limiting the possibility of aviation operators to use allowances, other than aviation allowances, to cover their emissions.
this is not consistent with the fundamental idea of open emissions trading, which is what ensures cost-effective solutions.
the need for rapid and effective action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is now undeniable.
in this context, it is crucial to reduce the impact of transport on global warming.
however, this legislation will be successful if we succeed in reconciling the environmental objective with that of the mobility of citizens, while respecting third countries.
it is therefore essential to achieve a reduction in co2 emissions at the lowest cost to travellers.
i therefore believe that too rapid and too severe co2 reduction targets, while praiseworthy from a purely environmental point of view, are unrealistic and risk having a counterproductive effect.
in this respect, there is a striking contrast with the fact that the challenges of climate change have been taken into account since last year's spring summit, and that the commission's work programme has included them in its priorities.
the outermost regions (ors) are making a solid contribution to the fight against climate change and are regularly demonstrating their commitment to continue this momentum by becoming true centres of innovation in this field.
i agree with the aim of including aviation in the emissions trading system.
it would be a pity if the council's decision to split the report in two were to waste our time.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
preventing environmental and human-induced damage involves strengthening and developing civil protection resources and capabilities at local, national and european levels.
the dual objective of these structures would be to guarantee the security of the population and to enable the sustainable development of the territories, through interregional cooperation and the networking of research establishments, smes and local authorities in these regions.
first, there is an increase in the number and deadly nature of conflicts and natural disasters, the latter in particular often being the consequence of climate change.
as regards the first point, and this was in perfect connection with the previous subject on natural disasters, we wanted to redefine the scope of humanitarian action because, of course, there are armed conflicts which, by their nature, are not necessarily predictable and there are disasters which, paradoxically, can begin to be, due in particular to climate change.
these are people losing their jobs, regions in crisis, economic sectors disappearing, new security and environmental threats, but also new job opportunities, new production sectors and lower prices for a wide range of products, allowing for better allocation of financial resources and growth in trade in goods and services.
i am convinced that in a number of critical areas we will only be effective if we in europe are able to give new collective political answers to the most serious problems of our time, in economic growth and job creation, in the preservation of the environment, in energy, in migration, in the fight against terrorism.
the european union has been renewing its internal policies to ensure competitiveness and fair and sustainable development.
the strengthening of social cohesion and respect for the environment must guide economic reforms.
the objectives set in the four priority areas, employment, knowledge and innovation, the business environment, energy and climate change, which were chosen in 2006, remain appropriate.
we must maintain a strong commitment to implementing at national level, for example, measures to better address the problems of demographic change, the quality of public finances and their long-term sustainability, the labour market, employment, social cohesion, the internal market, competitiveness, research and innovation, energy and climate change, education and training.
in this globalised context, the external dimension of the lisbon strategy should be strengthened and deepened, projecting the union's political and economic objectives, as well as its social and environmental standards, beyond its borders.
as you know, this was the subject of the debate of the heads of state or government at the informal meeting in lisbon, where we dealt in particular with the instability of financial markets and climate change.
europe has the political and institutional conditions to respond consistently to the economic, social and environmental challenges posed by globalisation and to influence the process of globalisation.
we need stronger strategic cooperation with our partners to develop a new global agenda that combines mutual opening of markets, improvement of environmental, social, financial and intellectual property standards and the need to support the institutional capacity of developing countries.
europe has become a beacon of hope in the possibility of building a model that synthesizes freedom, economic growth, social justice and environmental protection in a logic of partnership, cooperation and shared responsibility.
the truth is that the last few months have also sparked new interest: the turbulence in financial markets has shown how the very health of the european economy is linked to global developments, and extreme weather conditions have also shown how enormous the potential consequences of climate change are and how urgent the need to respond to this problem is.
we see every day that jobs in europe, energy in europe, the health of our citizens, the quality of life outside europe, all of this is influenced by a global dimension.
we have pioneered innovative ways of tackling new problems just look at emissions trading and we have some clear ground rules which have served us well.
that was the spirit behind our recent proposals to ensure that the rules on energy investment would apply to third country companies.
the ability to use european union law to set binding targets for greenhouse gases and renewables also gives us an unrivalled credibility, and we have a well-established lever for reform in europe in the shape of the renewed lisbon strategy.
the four priority areas agreed in 2006 provide the right framework for lisbon: research and innovation; a better business environment (fighting red tape and promoting better conditions for investment); greater employability, and the great issues of energy and climate change.
we will never become a knowledge-based, low-carbon economy without a highly skilled workforce, as well as more research and greater innovation.
we will never create a new dynamism without the right climate also for our smes.
vigorous implementation of outstanding reforms, stronger emphasis on skills and education, concrete steps to convert europe into a low-carbon economy: these are, from our point of view, the priorities for the next cycle.
economic reform, a global vision, a low-carbon economy: these are interlocking goals that need to be pursued in parallel, and only the european union can provide the reach and coherence that europe needs so much.
(applause from the left)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
they must accept our rules, respect our standards of health, environment and consumer protection.
ladies and gentlemen, we politicians are increasingly faced with the challenges posed by energy problems.
without a common policy for energy and environmental security, the european union will continue to be vulnerable.
we need a european energy policy to guarantee our security of supply and sustainable growth in this sector.
we must have a thorough discussion of renewable energy and consider the possibilities of civil nuclear energy in the energy supply.
at the end of this research, we all want a cleaner, more efficient and also safer energy europe.
these new generation of modular, refundable, negotiable and subsidisable tariffs will solve the common problem of economic, social and environmental asymmetries in international trade between the north and the south.
we must do so first because at the european council last march, the heads of state and government set out the best possible strategy for the european union to deal with globalisation, to respond to the challenges of energy and climate change.
in an open economic system, respect for the rules of competition and the establishment of a fair and equitable market taking environmental and social standards into account are the best guarantees for the rights of consumers and citizens to be respected.
i voted for the gutiérrez-cortines report because it proposes positive progress in the protection and sustainable use of soils, a non-renewable resource whose preservation of quality is essential to ensure sufficient food production and access to clean water.
the european parliament has called for a better definition of contaminated sites, where dangerous substances present a significant risk to health and the environment as a result of human activities.
sanitation strategies will have to be developed by each member state to limit the existence of contaminated sites, while a sustainable agricultural policy taking into account the specific characteristics of each national soil will be encouraged to ensure the sustainability of clean soils.
it seems to me artificial to want to apply similar prescriptions in countries which are marked by extremely different legal traditions and environmental situations.
at the end of this debate i have received, in accordance with rule 108 (5), a motion for a resolution (see minutes), on behalf of the temporary committee on climate change.
under the pretext of adapting to the digital environment, the commission is in fact introducing confusion into the european copyright and derived rights system.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
nothing about community preference and the strict imposition of social or environmental standards.
the many challenges ahead (energy, terrorism, freedoms) require europe to mobilise more than ever on its periphery.
this is essential because flexicurity only makes sense if it creates a climate of trust between employees and employers.
this implies that we can also envisage security of supply and energy independence.
if we are to meet the challenges ahead, particularly in terms of climate change, if we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote modal shifting, that is to say, reducing the transport of goods by road in favour of other less polluting modes of transport, we must remove a number of current technical barriers.
in conclusion, it is necessary to give priority, in cooperation with all tourism stakeholders and at all levels, to sustainable, quality, competitive, environmentally friendly, responsible and, above all, accessible tourism.
i hope that we will create european quality labels which take account of ecological and social criteria and that we will simply strengthen the information and protection of european consumers.
it is also necessary that the council explicitly and publicly endorses the recommendations of parliament as regards the conditions and criteria for the granting of this assistance, namely the improvement of transparency and sustainability of public finances, the application of defined macroeconomic and budgetary priorities, the implementation of specific provisions to avoid the risks of fraud, corruption and misuse of funds, the distribution of assistance in a fair balance between post-conflict spending, reconstruction, excessive debt and the social needs of the population, and full compliance with international standards on democracy, respect for human rights and the fundamental principles of the rule of law.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the implementation of the neighbourhood instrument, imf measures and femip actions must be carried out in a coherent manner in order to guarantee effective and sustainable aid.
as it grows, it first leads to an increase in the transport sector, one of the most productive sectors of greenhouse gases.
secondly, it allows for a relocation of productive activity, which may be optimal in terms of the implementation of productive forces and the use of wage rules, but which, insofar as it does not take into account the greenhouse gas costs that this division of labour generates, can in turn accelerate the production of greenhouse gases and climate change.
to give you a single figure, the ship, which carries 40 times more cargo than the airplane, produces only twice as many greenhouse gases, but we still fly the goods to optimize the production cycle.
so i think that after the stern report, after the four reports of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, we are aware that, after all, it is worth waiting half a day or even three days more for a commodity to arrive on its market, rather than destroying the climate at a cost that the stern report estimates at five trillion dollars.
the report calls for a reflection on industrial organization reducing the geographical scale of production circuits - producing closer to the final consumer - and it makes a number of proposals on trade in environmental goods itself.
we propose, both in the wto and in bilateral or bi-regional agreements - in short, all the agreements we are negotiating at the moment - to give priority to the assessment of the effects on climate change in the environmental impact assessments of these agreements, to the significant reduction of all tariff and non-tariff barriers - we are thinking in particular of royalties - which oppose trade in clean goods and services, those which save the production of greenhouse gases.
but we cannot rule out the possibility that after 2012, in the first post-kyoto period, humanity has not yet reached a unanimous agreement on the fight against climate change.
if so, it is certain that the choices europe makes to be a leader in the fight against climate change may harm some of its sectors.
in many cases, being a leader in the climate change sector means gaining a competitive edge.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive which parliament is to adopt at second reading is extremely important because it is the first directive requiring member states to have an environmental strategy to restore the good ecological condition of the seas and oceans.
we have already stressed its importance in the first reading of the report because recent scientific reports show that the survival of fisheries resources and biodiversity in the seas and oceans is particularly threatened.
in addition, the oceans play a fundamental regulatory role for the climate and their pollution risks reducing this regulatory function, accentuating the negative effects of climate change.
the first was to restore the ecological balance of our seas and oceans.
the second step was to define the necessary steps for each member state: first, to work together within the marine regions or subregions; the second is to define what the water and biodiversity status was in these seas.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should set up a european environment agency, which would be responsible for the coordination of environmental policy.
secondly, we wanted the definition of good ecological status to be rigorous so that restoration of this good status is not a wishful thinking.
we have been largely satisfied that the criteria for good ecological status include the pressure of all the pollution affecting an ecosystem and the need to assess and reduce its impact in order to restore this good ecological status.
in any case, the need for them to be of sufficient size to play this role of restoring biodiversity is retained.
the deadline is 2020, but member states must act quickly because they will have to transpose the directive by 2010. i would also ask them not to waste time, because the water directive is running behind schedule and our seas may not be able to wait.
the aim was to adopt the strictest standards for air pollution and to reduce the number of deaths in polluted cities by 15%.
the european union, which is often at the forefront of environmental regulation, was very disappointed at first reading, to the point that our environment commissioner, mr dimas, was personally outraged by the european parliament's position, which weakened existing legislation which was already not very voluntary.
the green group had warned the environment committee at second reading on 9 october 2007 of the counterproductive effects of administrative simplification, namely the increase in the number of days allowed for exceeding the maximum values and the extension of the derogations covering certain pollutants.
the impact of air pollution is still estimated to be nine months less life expectancy for our citizens.
so we must go further and integrate more upstream the limitation of particulate matter from prevention instruments aimed at limiting emissions from sectors, in particular transport, as well as those from industries.
mr president, we have all acknowledged, and we all say, that our towns and cities are becoming more and more polluted and that, unfortunately, the number of deaths caused by pollution is increasing.
i myself, who presides over an air quality monitoring network in my department, having already set it up more than 16 years ago, would like to point out that reducing air pollution is perceived by our fellow citizens as the priority for action by the public authorities in the field of environmental protection, and that it is even the main concern of 54% of the french.
little attention is paid to studies of the quality of the indoor environment, whereas the health impact is certainly at least as important as that of the outdoor environment.
let me recall the tragic case involving a british family whose two children were killed by carbon monoxide poisoning in a hotel room in corfu in october 2006. i have received several letters from you about this case.
secondly, much greater attention has been paid to the ecological cultivation of the vine, which still requires a great deal of inputs and chemicals.
the future lies in the biodiversity of the land, the crops and the tastes, the development and promotion of the quality and the extraordinary richness of european vines, and these are the principles which should form the basis of this reform.
the third idea is globalism: after the single market, the single currency, the single wine; the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including the one on the protection of the environment, which is to be adopted by the council of ministers in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the protection of the environment.
i personally do not wish to call into question the spirit of conditionality, which meets the legitimate expectations of our society: respect for the environment, traceability, food safety, transparency.
i would like to stress that i do not entirely agree with the compensatory logic that because european farmers are subject to strict production conditions (animal welfare, environment, veterinary practices) they receive agricultural aid.
i am therefore pleased that my amendment on this subject has been adopted and that the farmer is required, when making his single application and declaring the area used for agricultural purposes, to also commit to respecting criteria of public health, animal welfare and respect for the environment.
the 2003 reform is undoubtedly a step forward which must enable our agriculture to protect the environment and health, and it was in this spirit that we voted in 2005 for the new eafrd regulation which succeeded the eaggf guarantee.
i think, again in the budget, that it is absolutely essential, firstly, that the actors in the agricultural economy and rural development, who are the first sentinels in environmental protection, should be able to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens in order to concentrate on their primary activity, that is to say, pursuing the quality agriculture we expect, an agriculture which respects the environment.
the principle of ecological conditionality of the dpu is a deception designed to sell this reform to the idiots who claim to be ecological because it is trendy.
how can we imagine strengthening environmental protection by increasing agricultural competition and at the same time trying to lower the purchase prices of foodstuffs?
these two requirements are contradictory: it is impossible to combine the reduction of production costs with the raising of ecological standards.
similarly, decoupling the premium from the maintenance of the suckler cow herd would have the immediate effect of eliminating natural carbon-capturing grasslands, which are particularly effective in combating greenhouse gas emissions.
we also need to give member states more flexibility in using reduced rates for basic goods with social, economic, cultural and environmental objectives.
i voted in favour of this report which calls on the member states to take the necessary measures to achieve 'good ecological status' of the marine environment by 2020. the marine environment is home to vital resources and its ecosystem provides essential services, such as climate regulation and oxygen production.
policies on shipping, fisheries, energy and tourism have evolved separately, sometimes leading to failures, inconsistencies and conflicts of use.
a more comprehensive approach was needed, taking into account all aspects of a policy for the sustainable development of the european maritime area.
these strategies should lead to programmes of measures to achieve good ecological status by 2015. states sharing the same region or subregion will have to cooperate to ensure coordination of the different elements of the marine environment strategy.
i voted in favour of this report of all the pollution, air pollution is the main concern of 54% of the french.
the preservation of outdoor air quality must not be forgotten in the indoor environment where we sometimes spend more than 80% of our time.
studies on indoor air quality are not given much attention, although its impact on health is certainly at least as important as that of the outdoor environment.
african countries now need renewable energy.
africa needs renewable energy today!
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the european parliament has also called for the ratification process of the lisbon treaty to be completed quickly so that it can enter into force on 1 january 2009. the lisbon treaty, as we have said, will provide the union with a stable institutional framework for the coming years, which will enable it to devote itself fully to the political challenges of the future, in particular climate change and globalisation, as was stressed at the informal meeting of heads of state and government on 19 april.
i am thinking of meeting the objectives of the lisbon strategy for jobs and growth, of pursuing the ambitious energy and climate change package adopted at this year's spring european council, of defining a comprehensive response to the recent turbulence in financial markets, of promoting free trade and openness, of working with our partners to pursue strong and coherent development strategies, of developing a comprehensive migration policy at european level and of deepening the instruments and capabilities of the common foreign and security policy and also the external security and defence policy, in order to enable the union to play an increasingly important role in building a world that is a safer world.
on economic, social and environmental issues, the european council will take stock of the work done in the relevant areas in preparation for the next cycle of the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, to be adopted by the spring 2008 european council.
the european council will stress the need to deepen european competitiveness through the benefits of the single market, in conjunction with a sustainable industrial policy and the promotion of innovation and skills.
i should also stress the importance of pursuing the energy policy for europe set out by the spring european council.
the progress made on the third package of the internal market for electricity and natural gas and the debate on the european strategic plan for energy technologies will also be highlighted.
the european council will also review the implementation of the sustainable development strategy and is expected to conclude that the objectives and priorities under the seven major challenges set out in the strategy remain fully valid.
we believe that the next presidencies will continue to make progress towards a europe of higher growth, social welfare and sustainable development, strengthening its role globally and in its relations with its partners at bilateral level, but also at multilateral level.
yesterday's package responds to the need for europe to act, to face up to growing uncertainties in the global economy, and to the need for an even higher priority for the social dimension, education and skills, but also information and communication technologies, flexicurity, the need to have a common energy policy and to fight climate change.
today, we are well placed to provide the global vision that the world needs for a multilateral order, a system of collective security, open and fair trade and sustainable development, which respects the environmental balance of our planet.
i believe that the rise of asian powers on the one hand and the awareness of the climate change challenge on the other are, in fact, two very important driving forces for the european union, because they show us that there is a challenge called globalization and that there is also an opportunity to seize it.
(applause from the left)
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
and it is at the european level that we must address issues related to climate change, energy, immigration and security.
we need to develop an environmental and climate pact.
after the postal services, railways, energy and electricity, brussels is now tackling the car industry.
this requires the political will to create a competitive environment for our european textile industries.
moreover, faced with unfair competition from some of our competitors, who base their comparative advantages on social or environmental dumping or both, europe needs effective trade defence instruments.
as regards the european interest, i welcome the commission communication entitled 'the european interest: meeting the challenge of globalisation' published at the beginning of october, which states that 'our basic rules must not compromise our ability to protect our interests or our ability to maintain the high standards we apply to products to ensure the protection of health, safety, the environment and consumers'.
the future free trade agreement with korea must be modern and include binding environmental and social standards such as those enshrined in the ilo's fundamental conventions on promoting decent work.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
the violence of the storm brings us back to the effects of climate change.
massive imports, the perverse role played by a strong euro against a deliberately undervalued foreign currency, social and environmental dumping, counterfeiting, piracy, dangerous products, the existence of non-tariff barriers which affect european products: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the trade relations with china.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
with the lisbon treaty, our shared values of democracy, freedom and solidarity and our objectives of peace, security, environmental protection and prosperity reaffirm our common destiny.
needless to say, my group intends to convince the vast majority of our fellow europeans to vote for a epp-ed leadership, a leadership capable of leading a socio-economic strategy to respond to globalisation and population ageing, a leadership capable of investing in research and development, developing a european area of justice and security to better combat crime, illegal immigration and terrorism, a leadership capable of making the right choices for the protection of our environment, sustainable development and our energy independence, a leadership capable of leading a foreign policy that allows europe to speak with one voice.
and only strong governance can break down the reluctance and opposition to the fight against global warming.
europe needs to take a leading role on climate issues, first in poznan in 2008, where the next climate negotiations will take place, and then in copenhagen in 2009. we have a great responsibility here as european politicians.
climate and good european governance are also on the agenda today, here in brussels, where the ministers for agriculture and fisheries are meeting for their annual marathon of discussions on production quotas.
let us not overlook the impact of climate change on food production.
such a check-up is all the more necessary as the financial crisis rages, as the global warming movement is leading to a showdown with an uncertain outcome, and as the international community tries to revive a peace process that is supposed to resolve the most iconic conflict of our time.
we shall have a better idea of this tomorrow when the commission presents its new standards for carbon dioxide emissions from cars.