you have also shown commendable commitment and almost endless energy in promoting the european union across the continent, and your mission in particular to europe’s young people has marked your work.
it is no good trying to protect energy giants like rwe or edf in the hope that they can stand up against gazprom.
we need free markets and energy security and there is no contradiction between the two.
we welcome what you say about the environment.
we support, in particular, your plans for environmental technology and the leipzig charter on sustainable european cities.
i also welcome some of the key measures outlined in your presidency work programme – the emphasis on economic reform, the need for less regulation and your emphasis on the fight to combat climate change which should concern us all far more from now on.
daytime running lights will mean more fuel usage, and that is bad from a climate change point of view.
however, problems still remain in respect of unfair competition and the environment.
it is the same with the environment.
furthermore, whilst establishing a clearly more sustainable transport structure, largely helped by the tens process, railway operators need to be cojoined by simple rules and obligations.
at its worst, it increases debt repayments and, as we have seen in tanzania recently, makes it more difficult for poor countries to invest in health, education and true sustainable development.
– madam president, my group welcomes the commission’s recent focus on energy policy and climate change, its biomass proposal of december 2005, its proposals concerning the ‘standby’ mode for electronic equipment of september 2006, its energy policy this month and today’s announcement of a fuel quality directive.
such a policy is essential if the union and its member states are to live up to their responsibility to citizens, if we are to enjoy secure energy supplies and if we are to persuade other countries to follow our example.
if we had heeded the warnings of californian scientists in the late 1970s, we could probably have prevented climate change.
for that reason, liberals and democrats deplore the pleadings of german car manufacturers in bild zeitung and the attempts by some commissioners to water down emissions targets.
a belgian government study last year showed that cutting co2 emissions has no overall effect on jobs, because there are new high-tech sectors which create new jobs.
it is not just on climate issues where new thinking is needed: we need to feed a rapidly growing world population and bring living standards up to the point where population numbers stabilise.
where livelihoods and the sustainability of life are at stake, we need a purposeful, proactive approach to our politics, such as that suggested by the president-in-office today.
there is not enough emphasis in the commission’s proposals on cutting energy use, but it is essential.
i have just come from and will return to chairing a hearing on reducing co2 emissions from motor vehicles.
i ask you, how often in environment debates have we heard industry coming along and saying ‘this is impossible, this is the end of our industry if you do this, european union; this is going to cost an extravagant amount, european parliament’?
we talk about dealing with this issue of climate change.
if we are looking at the real price of a car, which has come down so significantly over the past 20 or 30 years, and we are saying that to reduce emissions by 25% would cost an extra thousand euros, still leaving the real price of a car at less than it was thirty years ago, can we not bear that price?
for instance, why, outside this house at any rate, is there continual reference to carbon emissions?
carbon is a black solid; it is soot or graphite or diamonds.
they should be talking about carbon dioxide which is, by the way, not a pollutant but a natural constituent of the atmosphere.
why did the director of a uk environment agency tell me they could not link global warming to climate change?
if global warming is due to co2 and the greenhouse effect, as opposed to a variation in solar activity, why was the same director unable to tell me if the greenhouse affect rises in proportion to the extra amount of co2 or rises greatly for the same amount of co2 – an exponential – or a lessening increase, meaning a tapering-off graph and a static effect at some time.
why does the stern report show a hockey stick graph for global warming – a steady rise over 2000 years – when in fact it was warmer in the 14th and 15th centuries than it is now?
why does friends of the earth say that incineration of waste to generate electricity produces more co2 than conventional gas-fired generators when effectively much of the waste is bio-fuel and therefore carbon-neutral?
they ignore the fact that landfill waste will produce methane, which is 12 times more potent a greenhouse gas than co2.
i want to raise the issue of personal carbon allowances.
it is complementary to the emissions trading scheme, but in many ways it is more equitable than much greater taxation, it has the advantage of being subject to an overall and declining cap and, crucially, it engages people on a personal level.
the science suggests that if we are to follow through what the ministers have already decided – that is not to go above two degrees – then you have to have a 30% cut in carbon emissions.
(applause)
climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing humanity, and it is one where isolated and patchy responses by individual countries would be entirely inadequate.
we must also look at strengthening our emissions trading scheme and seeking to extend it to other parts of the world.
indeed, eu action on the environment must become so effective and visible that our citizens begin to equate the letters eu with ‘environmental union’!
we are speaking as though the debate is over, and the threat of catastrophic global warming is real.
nevertheless, whatever our view on climate change, energy security demands that we reduce our dependence on imported fossil fuels.
we can no longer rely on russia, the middle east, nigeria and venezuela for energy.
while we must develop renewables, and enhance energy conservation, there is only one non-carbon technology which can provide the continuous, reliable base-load power we need to drive economic growth, and that technology is nuclear.
it is bitterly ironic that many of the climate alarmists, who call for dramatic reductions in carbon emissions, also oppose nuclear power.
i am delighted that the commissioner in his opening remarks referred to the other half, which was energy output, i.e.
however, they face challenges such as global warming, which is a huge challenge for them.
one of the major challenges faced by the region is the sustainable management of fisheries.
in these cases, for the poorer countries, development assistance must continue to be used to finance infrastructure and to encourage sustainable tourism.
most governments can hope to contribute to economic growth only by clearing the decks of obstacles and creating an enterprise-free environment.
essentially, taxpayers’ money is different from private, corporate money, and citizens rightly expect that they should have the right, for example, to lobby to cut off expenditure on companies that were doing business in south africa when there was apartheid, or to disqualify companies with bad labour or environmental records.
i also worry, as mrs lucas has indicated in a slightly different way, how non-trade issues will be taken into account in gpa and the application of gpa, how issues like the environment, human rights and labour rights will be taken into account.
i agree with mrs lucas that this is public money and that there is a danger, if we simply have gpa without any conditions, that labour and environmental standards could be driven down.
in britain, smes are unfairly shut out of public procurement due to well-meaning requirements such as corporate social responsibility and environmental standards; quite often a requirement for three years of audited accounts, which many small businesses cannot meet; a lack of competitive tendering; the bundling of contracts that become too big for smes and favour the large companies; and secrecy and a lack of transparency.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by caroline jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on waste (com(2005)0667 – c6-0009/2006 – 2005/0281(cod)) (a6-0466/2006)– the report by johannes blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a thematic strategy on the recycling of waste (2006/2175(ini) (a6-0438/2006).
this directive is a very important successor to the first framework directive and it dates me because i can remember the 1975 waste framework directive going through parliament.
people were rather surprised to find europe dealing with waste at all at that time.
the same sort of gap affects the issue of bio-waste.
secondly, we have spent much time defining the waste hierarchy.
the committee preferred the five-stage waste hierarchy to the commission’s rather muddled, flatter version.
thirdly, we grappled with the issue of how one defines when waste ceases to be a waste.
this gave us the opportunity to indicate through this directive which items should be given priority by the commission, if necessary by drawing up specifications to define when they cease to be waste.
in the view of the committee that remains waste.
finally, there is the question of the energy efficiency criteria, which, if met by a particular energy from a waste plant, would allow that plant to be categorised as a recovery and not a disposal operation.
such a designation has environmental and commercial advantages.
the committee adopted an amendment accepting the principle that energy from waste could qualify as recovery, but they moved the definition from the annex into article 19. such a move creates problems.
although this is a directive that mainly defines terms, we felt it should address the issue of waste prevention.
it is no good the eu being a world leader in waste terminology if it continues to be a world leader in waste generation.
i am therefore proud that, at my suggestion, parliament’s amendments contain for the first time a proposal for an eu commitment to stabilise overall waste production by 2012 at the levels which it reached in 2008. given that the volume of waste the eu produces is increasing every year, this is an important first step and i do hope that the commission and member states will support it.
apart from anything else we need to establish the carbon efficiency of recycling before we promote it as the best answer to our waste problems.
they complain now that they are receiving huge amounts of german waste.
whatever else it means, recycling does not mean throwing your waste over the national boundary fence and hoping for the best.
i hope that we can soon make progress on this directive with the council, but the recent history of waste directives teaches us that it is better to get it right than to rush to early adoption.
our group could vote for the report tomorrow if this parliament upholds the position of the committee on environment, public health and food safety but i fear that will not be the case.
the basis of the whole waste strategy must be the binding five-step waste hierarchy of prevention, reuse, recycling, recovery and disposal.
that is why we welcome the target of stabilisation of waste by 2012. it is not as far as we would like to go; it is weaker than our original proposal; but we will accept that to ensure that prevention programmes with binding targets do come forward.
a 50% recycling level for municipal waste and 70% for construction, demolition, industrial and manufacturing waste by 2020 is perfectly achievable and realistic.
and as everything cannot and should not be included in this one framework directive, we also want the commission to bring forward proposals on specific waste streams before the end of 2008, and, in the case of biodegradable waste, by the end of 2007. but the key issue for us in this directive is incineration.
reclassifying waste incineration as energy recovery would completely undermine measures on preventing and recycling.
a recent report showed that incineration is not green energy or safe waste disposal.
mr president, the commission’s thematic strategy document is strong on identifying the problems: waste volumes continuing to grow, the potential for waste prevention and recycling not being fully used, illegal cross-border waste shipments increasing and so on.
if legislation is being poorly implemented, if there are different approaches to solving the waste problem, if current wording causes differing interpretations, what will be usefully added by putting in new laws without first streamlining, and ensuring implementation of, the existing legislation?
similarly, on illegal cross-border shipments of waste, it is vital that the waste source is identified and the ‘polluter pays’ principle rigorously enforced.
in my constituency in northern ireland, we are afflicted with illegal dumping of waste from our neighbour in the republic of ireland.
finally, the export of waste from the eu to developing countries for processing involving methods far less sustainable than those within the eu is something which i think we really need to address.
on top of that, the carbon footprint of those exports makes that a practice which should be reversed.
mrs jackson has duly compiled the report but, not content with that, parliament throws in mr blokland’s report as well, an own-initiative report with no legislative relevance, and the subject – waste!
i believe my own country is capable and responsible in matters of waste and should be free to enforce its own legislation.
you have seen the treaty of rome supplemented by the single european act, the treaties of maastricht, amsterdam and nice, and now the draft constitutional treaty, as the common market has been enhanced with a single market, a single currency and policies in justice and home affairs, foreign and security arrangements and now energy.
it is no longer a union to guarantee peace and security of food supply, but a union which has to be capable of meeting the three big challenges we face: rapid world population growth and migration, energy resources and climate change, and internationally organised crime linked to terrorism.
i voted in favour of this report as it will create a waste management policy that will help us meet our objective of reducing waste and protecting our environment.
we need to protect the environment at an eu level and this report represents an attempt to do this.
the report meets the priorities i feel we should have for our environment of reducing the production of non-reusable or non-recyclable waste, making producers and importers responsible for waste, avoiding the reclassification of energy recovery incinerators for waste disposal and introducing a requirement to develop national waste prevention programmes.
i will be voting in favour of the jackson report on waste.
we must limit the amount of waste generated before recycling.
i have visited in germany chp schemes based on waste incineration which are to be commended.
i welcome this report in tackling the eu waste problem.
i am pleased that a legally binding stabilisation target has been introduced for waste prevention.
i am also pleased that there has been no weakening of the principle of the five-stage 'hierarchy of waste': prevention and reduction of waste, re-use of waste, recycling of waste (less than a third of waste is recycled today), other recovery operations and, finally, the safe and environmentally sound disposal of waste.
i voted in favour of this report as i believe we should create a waste management policy that will reduce waste and protect our environment.
i believe the basis of the eu waste policy should be the protection of the environment and not to facilitate the trade of waste.
the ‘polluter pays’ principle, the principle of producer responsibility in the eu waste legislation as well as the implementation of concrete targets for prevention are important aspects of this report that i favour.
the proposal for a separate directive on sewage sludge, a revision of the waste incinerator directive and proposals on waste prevention should be welcomed.
economic growth and low unemployment, a dynamic business environment and high social standards are not mutually exclusive – look at denmark or finland.
my group believes, too, that investing in green technologies is key to containing climate change and catering for energy security in europe.
energy is literally the driving force of our economy, and, as our energy ministers meet this week in brussels, they must rise to the challenge and have the courage to open up the energy sector to greater competition and flexibility, not just separating infrastructure from supply.
building a true european energy market is important but not sufficient: we also need to cut energy consumption, and i hope the commission will be even more ambitious in future than it has been.
the german minister for european affairs, mr gloser, may talk about sustainability and energy policy – although i have to say that how he keeps a straight face when he talks about the already failed lisbon agenda is quite beyond me.
on action and energy, we have to fulfil existing agreements on energy liberalisation.
we have to have a competitive energy market and that involves unbundling and strengthening the power of regulators.
we need to take action on climate change.
we have to take a global lead but we can only do that if we have action to reduce our own emissions, to cut our use of carbon and to make the emissions trading scheme much more effective and much more watertight.
a country should not be reliant on imports to feed itself, and this is where britain is heading if we take money away from genuine farming and instead pour it into feel-good environmental projects.
feeding the british people must take priority over what might, in some cases, be termed ‘cosmetic environmental projects’.
firstly, voluntary modulation will allow the uk to deliver a much broader range of environmental outcomes in line with stated eu policies.
for example, we can give payments to farmers under agri-environment schemes designed to deliver environmental and biodiversity benefit; we can support hill farmers and farmers in the uplands; we can work on schemes to help mitigate the effect of climate change through support for energy crops and other renewable energy products and we can help protect our countryside in key natural resources.
in the second line there is a phrase beginning ‘have made it clear that no source of energy must be left unused’.
we want to insert three words so it would read, ‘have made it clear that no sustainable and safe source of energy must be left unused’.
the british conservative delegation recognises the vital importance of agri-environment schemes.
it is disappointing that for the second time parliament has rejected these reforms which provide a sustainable approach to rural development.
while i agree with the content of the verts/ale amendments and the commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020, i believe that the amendment was too narrowly focused and i abstained from the vote on that particular amendment.
climate change is perhaps the most significant political challenge of our time.
the type of steps called for in this resolution, and collective action at the multilateral level are essential if climate change is to be combated.
moves to make the european parliament a carbon neutral institution require to be pursued as a matter of urgency.
tackling climate change is the challenge of our time.
perhaps it will be the argument of our carbon footprint, rather than any other, which will finally end our strasbourg sojourns every month.
further, i support the avoidance of environmental dumping as a crucial element of fair competition.
social and environmental aspects must be built into trade development.
question no 5 by claude moraes (h-1061/06) subject: environmental emissions trading scheme what is the view of the council on current progress in achieving the aims of the european emissions trading scheme?
are member states making genuine progress in cutting carbon emissions?
no one doubts the council’s determination on the question of the emissions trading scheme.
the emissions trading scheme is clearly good as far as it goes, and i was pleased to hear the president-in-office’s commitment to try and expand it to include aviation.
however, does he accept that the climate – no pun intended – is now right for negotiating outside the european union with countries such as the united states to make this a truly global trading scheme, which would of course have a much bigger impact on the environment?
a situation partly driven by climate change – what does that bode for the future – whereby desertification has driven pastoralists into direct conflict with settled farming communities and then exploited by a heartless government in sudan has gone on for far too long.
but the country environmental profile warns this may lead to overuse of land and pollution from increased use of pesticides and fertilisers.
i would like to ask the commission what conditions on sustainability are laid down when budget support is offered, and how does the commission check that these are being adhered to?
but, of course, the wind farm off the cumbrian coast is a waste of money.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, i welcome a heightened interest in these issues, but let us please be cautious about trying to solve all issues in the energy field in this report which, as i understand it, is primarily about oil prices and oil volatility.
i think that they will cope with changes in demand in the foreseeable future, but that is a very short period of time and our concerns should be more about security of supply; about getting enough supply, whether it is within europe or imported; about a depletion of reserves; and about the sustainability angle, with reference to climate change and our emissions.
i supported the dos santos report, which rightly identifies the need to prioritise development of renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency.
my belief is that an independent scottish government would ensure that all of scotland’s energy resource potential can be maximised.
an opinion from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is winging its way to that committee and, in due course, we shall have a full debate on that.
this resolution was not cobbled together in three days but was put together by the committee on the environment last december, when it was carried unanimously by that committee.
one of the items i raised with you was the fact that, in view particularly of the summit that has just taken place and the emphasis on climate change, it is important that the european parliament set an example and set out a strategy for itself to be carbon neutral, because it is difficult for us to tell other people how to behave if we do not have our own house in order.
i was delighted to read in your response that the new secretary-general will be drawing up a proposal to make parliament carbon neutral.
i should like to urge that he proceed with all possible speed to reinforce the success of the spring council meeting on climate change and, in particular, that he look at the specific difficulties we have in relation to the three places of work and how we can become carbon neutral in that context.
– mr president, companies, politicians and above all people understand that the problems of world poverty and of environmental degradation remain stubbornly prevalent in today’s world.
for ten years, many companies have begun to examine how they can manage their own social and environmental impacts through initiatives for corporate social responsibility (csr).
the one clear piece of new legislation we will support will be for mandatory environmental and social reporting by business, reiterating our previous position and sending a powerful political signal from this parliament.
there is also the strategic partnership that i propose between the commission and the global reporting initiative, a new business dialogue between the eu and japan on corporate social responsibility, and the use of the fifth anniversary this year of the world summit on sustainable development as an opportunity for us in europe to lead the international debate for intergovernmental initiatives and corporate accountability, which was agreed at johannesburg.
yet this report, as originally presented, sought to create mandatory regulation of a wide range of areas of corporate activity, including employee relations and the environment.
– mr president, the climate change initiative has been raised to the very top of the agenda.
despite serious doubts about the extent to which co2 causes global warming, the eu is determined to lead the world in reducing emissions.
but, apart from nuclear power, sources of energy other than fossil fuels are still far from viable.
we now have a binding target of 20% for renewable energy with no proper assessment of the methods of achieving this ambitious goal or its cost.
we are told that this initiative will stimulate innovation in renewable technology and improve exports.
i suggest this sudden obsession with carbon emissions is a distraction, an attempt to take our minds off all those other projects that have had disappointing results, such as the lisbon strategy, immigration and asylum policy, reform of the common agricultural policy, the euro and several more.
but on that road, nothing is more important than the health of our people and the health of our environment.
now, on climate change, of course, if we do not keep below that 2o target, we know the devastation that will result in terms of flooding and drought and population movement and so on.
the other day i went up the thames with the environment agency, saw the need for a new barrage at the estuary of that river, saw the flood plains which are going to be affected by flooding, and saw the building that is going on on the flood plains without taking account of the need to put people higher on those flood plains if they are going to live there.
hence, we need the 20% reduction targeting greenhouse gasses by 2020. hence, we need the 20% target for renewables.
hence, we need effective implementation and monitoring by the commission and particularly, may i say, of emissions trading and the national action plans.
we have to keep the price of carbon high to encourage research, innovation and substitution.
this brings together the issues of climate change and energy that you mentioned, but also maritime policy.
mr president, as we look ahead to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty review conference in 2010 there is no doubt that the treaty is already under considerable stress, particularly with the debates about iran and north korea, so there could be no worse time for a country to send out the message that nuclear weapons are essential for any country's security, however useless they are against the real threats that we face, like climate change and terrorism.
first part
question no 44 by claude moraes (h-0078/07) subject: road transport and emissions given that road transport is responsible for 25% of eu emissions of co2 and aeroplanes for 3% of eu emissions of co2, what level of research has the eu commission undertaken concerning the annual emissions of road transport (cars, buses, trains etc) and their effect on the environment, taking into account that great political and media emphasis has focused on the emissions emitted by planes?
there is no question of that, but the reason for my question was first of all to reflect the action that you have already taken and that parliament wants to see taken, but also to get into balance the fact that there are emissions from homes, from waste and all sorts of other areas other than just aircraft and that the commission, working with parliament, emphasises that this is a partnership across all of the deleterious effects of co2 emissions so that we do not just emphasise air flights and then just miss out the emissions of shipping and vehicles.
in my own city of london that is extremely important to stop the kind of pollution that we see strangling that city.
question no 45 by liam aylward (h-0164/07) subject: educating young people about environmental issues does the commission have any plans to promote awareness within our primary school network concerning environmental issues, which are of growing concern to the people of europe as each day passes?
question no 56 by danute budreikaite (h-0112/07) subject: new sources of energy one of the 150 experimental cars featured at the michelin challenge bibendum, a rally for ecological cars held in shanghai, was the habo, a car fuelled not with petrol but with hydrogen peroxide, which produces oxygen on reaction with water.
question no 59 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0076/07) subject: measures to boost european entrepreneurship as part of the lisbon strategy, the european strategy for growth and employment and the european agenda for entrepreneurship, which measures does the commission intend to take to boost private entrepreneurship, in particular among young people, and to create the right environment for risk-taking so as to modernise, develop and promote the competitiveness of europe's economy?
question no 61 by georgios papastamkos (h-0099/07) subject: carbon dioxide emissions from automobiles commissioner verheugen appears to be opposed to proposals from commissioner dimas regarding binding provisions concerning the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions for all categories of automobile, calling for a more 'integrated approach'.
faced with the global challenges of world population growth and migration, of climate change, of internationally-organised crime and terrorism, the declaration gives member states the opportunity to explain to citizens why now, more than ever, the eu is so important, why we have to engage with countries beyond our borders and cultures beyond our ken.
indeed, at the same summit, a whole new front of regulation was opened up under the guise of tackling climate change – even down to the point of dictating the type of light bulbs that nation states and citizens can use!
probably in china, thanks, in part, to over-regulation driving our manufacturers to take flight eastwards, where the uncontrolled factories manufacturing them will belch out even greater co2 emissions.
mr president, a few months ago, i met some young people in my constituency and they asked me what the eu is doing about climate change.
europe now has a story to tell on climate change.
tackling climate change must be part of the fight against poverty, not exacerbate that fight.
in reaching agreement on cutting eu greenhouse gases in this way, the council has shown leadership on probably the most important issue facing our planet, that of the threat of climate change.
this agreement on climate change is a good one and i hope members of parliament will take note of it when we next have a debate on institutional machinery.
i should like to ask, in this regard, what proposals there are to improve the eu emissions scheme, as well as for confirmation that this will not require major institutional reform.
when might we see a breakdown of country-by-country allocations on the targets for renewable energy as a share of energy consumption?
it is going to have an effect and i hope that all the energy proposals in this package will be put through the codecision procedure to ensure that parliamentarians have a chance to influence them in some way.
the european union has taken on the mantle here of an evangelist seeking to alert the rest of the world to the dangers of climate change and to bring about a post-2012 international agreement involving at the very least china, india and the united states.
i do not believe these resources exist, certainly not in dg environment, perhaps not in the entire commission.
most attention has been given to the summit commitments on energy efficiency and renewable energy; admirable targets for energy saving have been set.
mr president, there has been a lot of praise for the council, particularly on the energy package, but i want to note another significant landmark, which for me personally is a very important one.
– i welcome the statement made by the commission setting ambitious targets for reduction in carbon emissions by 20% by 2020 and for the increasing use of renewable energy forms.
climate change is a global issue and we will need to work together to reduce global warming, not only within europe, but with north america and asia.
i voted for this resolution in which safety and sustainability are emphasised as two important goals for the agreement between the eu and the usa.
but they are also entitled to ask how their money is spent, including the eur 5350 million on euromed in the period up to 2007. considering all the other calls on resources, they might question the value of that, especially when we add funds for combating climate change.
but one of the areas that we have not yet been able to take forward is the question of the creation of political families in the assembly so as to normalise the political debate away from the important, but nevertheless existential, questions of the middle east, to the more mundane, but nevertheless terribly important issues of trade, of environment, of commerce, of transport – so many of the day-to-day issues which, i believe, should preoccupy us in our joint endeavours in making sense of our relationship across the mediterranean.
i would also be eager for the commission to investigate the viability of expanding trade defence instruments to deter environmental and social dumping in order to ensure that an unfair advantage is not obtained through the abuse of the environment or through failure to ensure decent labour standards.
on energy, islands have a clear natural advantage and we would like to see the commission use all means available to encourage sustainable energy communities, in particular the european grid, and the abolition of domestic constraints.
in scotland with shetland, orkney, the western isles and argyle and bute we have the best wind, wave and tidal resources in the eu and a vast potential contribution to make to the eu’s energy and climate change objectives, but we are not developing these resources because we have seen insufficient investment in the grid.
if the eu is serious about meeting the climate change challenges, invest in interconnectors to the scottish islands and the scottish islands will make a vast contribution to our objectives.
i am firmly of the view that this is discriminatory under article 7(6) of the 2001 renewable energy directive and i believe that the commission must open formal proceedings against the uk for holding us back.
do i see in the report that eu islands, especially in the outermost regions, might be used as sources of renewable energy?
it is about time we all calmed down and realised that minimal global warming is naturally occurring in a cycle that has no input from man.
if this continues, the population will not be sustainable from 2019. as mr musotto’s report outlines, there are also common difficulties faced by islands, for example higher prices, difficult terrain, remoteness and poor infrastructure.
i voted for this report as i support a balanced association agreement in which progressive trade liberalisation should be a tool (and not a goal) put at the service of the main objectives of the promotion of socioeconomic development, sustainable development and social cohesion.
i voted for this report because it supports a balanced association agreement in which progressive trade liberalisation should be a tool (and not a goal) put at the service of the main objectives of the promotion of socioeconomic development, sustainable development and social cohesion.
he says that the seal cull in canada is sustainable.
it is certainly not sustainable in a country like namibia.
people ask what we are going to do to combat global climate change, to fight the scourge of global poverty and to make our continent more competitive in the face of globalisation.
we don't necessarily need more majority voting to fight climate change or global poverty; we need more effective intergovernmental cooperation.
constitutions and institutions do not themselves generate prosperity, they do not make our economies more competitive, they do not reduce co2 emissions and they do not feed hungry people in the developing world.
inevitably, this is a complex exercise because a reformed cap must be able to help the new member states to develop their agricultural base, while allowing the eu-15 to transfer funding to those environmental elements with popular support and reducing the overall cost to the community.
we admire your indefatigable energy and your diplomatic skills, and we hope that with a new government in palestine, the european union will indeed be able to help in setting this country firmly on the road to a lasting peace and to peaceful co-existence with israel.
i voted for this report and amendments on a statute for members' assistants and amendments calling for reduced energy costs for, amongst other things, parliament's car fleet.
moreover, its assault on the wholly justified “british rebate” demands of my constituents that they should become even more generous benefactors of the grasping eu, with all its profligate waste.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
i should also like to state quite clearly that my committee, the committee on industry, research and energy, supports this proposal and hopes that it will go forward smoothly.
that is what it is all about and on that basis, i welcome my honourable friend’s report and congratulate him on the work that he did, not only in bringing the report through our committee on the environment, public health and food safety but in the subsequent work he has done negotiating with the presidency in the trialogue.
his solution to the problems of corruption and waste in europe is to add another layer of bureaucracy by hiring a team of accountants from the private sector.
well, i shall continue to tell the people of my country that waste and financial irregularity are an unfortunate but inevitable consequence of the system – a flawed system in which the disconnection between the taxpayers who provide the funds and those who spend them becomes ever wider.
the next item is the report by mr andrejevs, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on combating hiv/aids within the european union and in the neighbouring countries, 2006-2009 (2006/2232(ini) (a6-0091/2007).
the kind of catastrophes that we have too often witnessed do not just cause short-term environmental damage.
on economic, environmental and ethical grounds the united states government has been shredding the values for which america enjoyed our respect.
we must also use the summit to force recognition of the greatest security threat of the modern age – climate change – and to make the americans agree to stabilise and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
mr president, here in this house we love to boast about our green credentials and to criticise the usa and president bush for their environmental vandalism.
since kyoto has been in place, the us trend on co2 emissions has been better than ours!
i repeat, for mr graham watson’s benefit, that in recent years the us trend on emissions has been better than the eu’s trend.
the energy intensity of the us economy is similar to our own and, based on current trends, the us economy will be greener than that of europe by 2010. the usa has a vast biofuels programme.
finally, we must together urge russia to behave as a reliable energy supplier and uphold its commitments to democracy and human rights.
failure to do so, however, means leaving our industries behind and our peoples at economic risk in the global environment.
regrettably, the outcome then produced neither a stable government nor a climate of financial probity amongst many of the verkhovna rada mps, who had little interest in politics and really only a vested interest to protect their business interests or avoid prosecution by acquiring parliamentary immunity.
hate-speak creates a climate that somehow lives are inferior, that the person poses a threat to society.
a climate is created and fear is engendered, rights are under threat.
question no 11 by danute budreikaite (h-0201/07) subject: ecological consequences of the northern oil pipeline the northern dimension policy, of which the baltic sea strategy is a constituent part, places particular emphasis on the environment and climate change.
economic activities, and in particular the planned construction of the northern oil pipeline, may lead to an ecological disaster whose consequences are difficult to predict.
does not the country that holds the presidency and which is a participant in the project consider that, before it starts to implement projects of this kind, the eu should obtain independent expertise on the possible ecological consequences of the construction of a gas pipeline?
this resulted in a series of recommendations this february from justice melo’s independent commission, set up specifically to address this issue, followed by a six-point government-endorsed plan to stop further human rights abuses and end the existing climate of impunity.
these will raise environmental and safety standards as well as making it easier for producers to sell their vehicles europe-wide.
i voted for this resolution which recognises the importance of russia for europe, especially in energy relations, but also highlights the need for democratic values and human rights.
it is deeply concerning how quickly this difficulty over a local estonian decision could escalate to energy supplies being cut off by russia.
our dependence on russia for our energy needs continue to worry those who have an interest in security of supply.
while i do not want the closure of existing nuclear plants, i am not in favour of their massive expansion, with all the problems that poses for health and the environment.
it may be that the emission of co2 and other greenhouse gases is limited but the hazards posed by radioactive release were all too graphically demonstrated by chernobyl and the nuclear disaster in the urals so graphically described by roy medvedev.
i also object to the undemocratic nature of euratom decisions and the waste of resources in the boondoggle that is the iter project.
we support many of the aims of this report and, in particular, we approve the sharing of best practice in construction and technology of housing as a way to encourage energy efficiency.
mr president, on wednesday the british government will publish its energy green paper, which was leaked over the weekend in britain’s press – in particular the independent on sunday.
if those reports are accurate, the nuclear industry will be raised from the dead in the name of environmental protection, but, more importantly for europe, there will be a commitment to the first big sustainable non-co2-emitting energy scheme in europe, namely the severn tidal barrage.
this, at a cost of eur 15 to 20 billion, will produce up to 8% of britain’s energy needs, control the consequences of climate change in the estuary, provide much needed employment in the south-west and wales, bring new roads and railway crossing points and will be an enormous boost to the local economy’s water-based leisure activities.
the directives are those on the energy performance of buildings and landfill waste.
it is a positive report and it pushes all the right buttons: it talks about the natura 2000 and the birds and habitats directives; it talks about the effective implementation of reach and water and pesticides legislation; it expresses the concern we all share over the financial constraints on natura 2000 and other biodiversity actions.
our target was 2010 – not ‘2010 and beyond’ – but we are nowhere near reaching our target of halting biodiversity loss by that year, which is not so far away.
they are there, they are damaging and they are dangerous not only to human health but also to the health of our environment and our natural native species.
setting a target for halting the loss of biodiversity is easy – especially when it is nine years off – it is the most easy thing in the world to find a target a long, long time off.
we started off by putting the safety of the public and the environment first.
it is important that pollution is controlled and that there is a coherence with the water framework directive.
the purpose of this proposal is to protect the environment and human health.
the health and environment standards in europe are so high that the potential for many acp countries to export their agricultural produce will be very limited.
i have some sympathy with mr kamall’s points with regard to audiovisual services, though i have to say that the privatisation of health, education, drinking water and energy rarely helps the poor in developing countries; rather it helps the minority rich population.
while aid for trade undoubtedly represents a different approach to general development aid, it should, in my opinion, be based on the same fundamental principles of poverty reduction and sustainable development, and our main point of reference should continue to be the millennium development goals.
the eu’s aid for trade package has a unique role to play to ensure sustainable development, growth and prosperity in the developing world.
water quality is essential to our environment and i am pleased to see that through european action we have witnessed improvements.
i believe that the proposal of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to look at the effectiveness of all community legislative acts with a direct or indirect impact on water quality is a step in the right direction.
mr president, i am pleased that this important report gained the majority it did, because the gradual loss of biodiversity should concern us all.
i agree with the rapporteur that biodiversity loss is as important as climate change and that member states must show greater political will to prevent the loss of biodiversity.
the introduction at committee stage of paragraphs on the need for core labour and environmental standards to be integrated into the eu’s trade deals, and of additional references to development considerations, made the report more rounded.
global challenges like climate change, population growth and nuclear proliferation highlight what you have called ‘the inadequacy of unilateralism’.
mr president, prime minister, today we are once again debating constitutions and institutions when the citizens of europe are really more interested in jobs, prosperity, the environment and global poverty.
securing the release of the bbc reporter alan johnston and the kidnapped soldier, corporal shalit, would be a great start and create a climate conducive to restarting the vital roadmap for peace talks.
do you accept that the objective of the biofuels policy of the european union is to reduce global emissions, not just european union emissions?
my concern and the concern that lies behind this question is that if we only measure the emissions from biofuels in europe and not the emissions involved in the production and shipping of those biofuels, we might not actually be contributing to the reduction in global emissions.
i am pleased to hear what the commissioner said about the sustainability scheme.
will the commission look at how we can distinguish between good and bad biofuels from the point of view of emissions?
recital v states that ‘in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the european union in a socially sustainable way, it is important to improve productivity by promoting decent work and the quality of working life, including health and safety at work, a better balance between flexibility and security in employment, lifelong learning, mutual trust and participation as well as a better conciliation between private/family and working life; combating gender discrimination and all other forms of discrimination’.
mr president, my group wanted to see our amendments incorporated to this report which would have increased the powers of parliament over future budgets on trans-european energy and transport networks, though they were unsuccessful.
the eu has broken down barriers across europe for many years, yet so many infrastructural barriers remain in energy and must be addressed.
scotland in particular has much to contribute to europe’s energy needs but we need the necessary connections to do so, and i will be exploring all ways to lever eu funding into connections to maximise scotland’s green energy potential.
(applause) europe cannot secure its energy supply, combat climate change or tackle terrorism with a retreat into unilateralism.
you must convince your citizens that unity and prosperity are inseparable; that inability to make progress on political integration means europe will lose its place as a global standard-setter and end up at the mercy of powers like russia with its belligerent energy policy.
(applause) your public demands energy security; it demands a european environment policy; it demands common action on migration.
(applause)
mr president, one has to ask how much energy has now been wasted on chasing the moonbeam of an eu constitution.
as you have said, and my party leader david cameron has also said, there is an urgent need for a greater emphasis on making europe more competitive, tackling global poverty and dealing with the serious issues of climate change.
instead, let us begin responding to what people are asking us to do: reforming our economies, tackling global warming and alleviating the crushing poverty that we are seeing now in the developing world.
question no 8 by philip bushill-matthews (h-0291/07) subject: tariffs on light bulbs will the presidency-in-office be actively seeking agreement to reduce, or ideally remove, the import tariffs on energy-efficient light bulbs from china which come up for review this october?
the next item is the report by adam gierek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on putting knowledge into practice: a broad-based innovation strategy for europe [2006/2274(ini)] (a6-0159/2007).
forecasts by independent research institutes support the commission’s own analysis that maintaining the status quo is simply not sustainable.
with a history of human rights abuses, a sustainable solution is impossible without ending impunity and ensuring that human rights are the building blocks of peace.
the environment is of common concern to peoples on whatever side of the line of control, and can be a valuable peace-builder.
there are many member states who have been subject to pressure from parliament and the commission when a development proposal is potentially damaging to the environment.
so my request to the commission is to insist that we look seriously at alternative routes, because we believe, and my committee believes, that there are alternatives which would be much better for the environment.
we believe that they must be fully explored, they must use the strategic environmental assessment principles and that only if those are complied with should we agree to this road corridor proceeding.
it will certainly make it better for the polish environment if we comply with the rules.
the detention of an education minister is interesting as it tends to support the repeated allegations in this house that the palestinian textbooks and school curriculum supported for years by eu funds are still aimed at fomenting a climate of hatred and distrust for israel and a glorification of terrorist violence.
this will create a climate conducive to restarting the vital roadmap for peace talks.
the key challenges facing our people; challenges like climate change, energy security and international crime remain unsolved because our institutions of government are no longer fit for purpose.
how can we ensure energy security?
but i want to say how pleased i am that the chancellor of germany has taken such an interest in the issue of climate change and the need for us to work in a cooperative fashion to try to find solutions to global warming and, indeed, the global poverty which arises as a result of those changes.
it is simply not true that the compromise on vodka would allow you to make vodka, for example, from animal waste, as has been circulated again in this house today.
it is interesting that they have not sought to include sulphite waste, which was the predominant raw material in sweden in the 1920s, nor apples, nor coal and yellow turnips, which have all been used in poland in the past.
we were told frequently – and in many respects i can agree – that the supervisory environment is already very changed and will become more so with the solvency ii directive.
the lisbon agenda is well known for its goal that by 2010 europe should become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth together with quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion.
on climate change, all the g8s except the us and russia agreed to cut emissions by half by 2050. the us commitment to join in with the un efforts was welcome.
there is also no agreed intention to limit climate change to 2°c.
the first is on climate change.
i know you are not the lead commissioner for climate change, but as the commissioner for development, you have a key role to play in keeping the momentum on climate change going because, as you know, the poor in the developing world are already paying the price of climate change.
in fact, we should be looking at scoreboards on climate change and on aid, because what mr mitchell said earlier about credibility and the eu is correct.
people out there will judge us on how we perform on the issues they really care about: tackling climate change and poverty.
these bring together members sharing common concerns, for example acp delegates representing remote and arid areas and meps working on climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, under european union law it is the responsibility of the uk authorities to assess the impact of infrastructure projects and to ensure that all the environmental standards applicable in this area are respected before, during and after the implementation of projects.
the project for the sustainable development of heathrow carries with it the commitment of the uk government not to build a third runway without prior public consultation and only if strict noise and air quality conditions are observed.
a full environmental impact assessment is thus being launched, which will have to comply with the provisions of the 1985 directive applicable to these assessments, as well as the provisions of the 2001 directive on strategic environmental assessment.
moreover, under the 2002 environmental noise directive, a strategic noise map is required for heathrow before the end of june 2007, including an analysis of possible future situations.
the uk government’s optimistic claim that air pollution can be kept within eu legal limits appears to rest on hopes of cleaner planes and controls on vehicle traffic around the airport.
aviation already accounts for one third of all london’s carbon emissions.
however, we also further note efforts by the commission to propose new legislation, which should substantially contribute to creating a more competitive environment for the european defence industry and its suppliers.
what impact does it expect the directive to have on the sector, and what is the commission’s strategy to induce member states to cooperate more closely on defence procurement issues, to improve transparency and gradually open up their national defence procurement markets in order to establish a well-performing and competitive environment for this sensitive sector?
mercury must be disposed of and stored safely in order to protect human health and the environment.
mercury cell technology is being gradually replaced by the environmentally superior and energy efficient membrane cell technology and this conversion is releasing surplus mercury across the european union.
the timing of the ban was debated at length prior to the environmental council in june 2005, and the 2011 date was agreed in the council conclusions as contained in the commission’s proposal.
should a dispute arise over environmental impact assessment in swedish waters, is it the european court of justice or the swedish environmental court which passes final judgment in the case?
in the current political climate, where support for right-wing extremism across europe has brought racism into the mainstream, moderates must use this legislation and the dialogue that will surround its implementation to take back ownership of the diversity debate.
the signatories of this resolution wholeheartedly denounce the economic support given to the regime through investment in the arms trade and the energy industry from other far eastern countries, which only shows up this ruthless dictatorship.
action on climate change and energy security had made yours a noteworthy presidency.
who in the months following 2005’s referendum results would have thought that institutional reform was still within reach; that europe’s leaders would recognise the need for common action on energy security, climate change, foreign policy or shelve requirements for unanimity in the council in favour of qualified majority voting in 36 new policy areas?
as the german presidency comes to an end, i start by congratulating the chancellor on her very successful pursuit of the climate change agenda over the past six months.
the european council agreement in march regarding targets for a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, compared to 1990, was a historic one and we in the british conservative party particularly support this initiative very strongly.
it is a step on the way to a better environment.
this was a major expression of the will of the people, not only because this parliament could save the taxpayers about eur 200 million a year, but also because we as responsible parliamentarians could be seen to be taking action to cut our carbon emissions.
we want to see better use made of the centres of reference across europe and we are also pleased that ngos and patients’ organisations will have better access to funding thanks to this programme that will see emphasis placed on the wider environmental determinants of heath.
we all know that health suffers because of environmental issues and we want to see that tackled.
we need to ensure that we protect energy networks from hedge funds or private equity, which will not give the long-term investment commitment that is necessary, and let us stop third-country companies from buying either generation or energy networks if there is no reciprocal agreement with that country.
i urge you also to put right the false impression on ownership unbundling spun by the german presidency following the last energy council meeting.
this parliament passed an amendment to exempt barometer-makers at first reading in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and in this parliament.
the environment committee did not support the amendment this time round, i am sorry to say, but i have retabled the amendments in order to give parliament a further opportunity to make a decision on this and, as members are no doubt aware, a very vigorous campaign is being fought by a number of independent operators and distributors throughout europe.
well, that does not address the issue of spillages, accidental damage or waste disposal, landfill and incineration.
however, we also dealt with technical issues: clarifying definitions on the environment or supplying a solution on the issue of unfair competition, and then grappling with the relationship between european conflict of law rules and internal market instruments.
that is why they are different to other sectors, like telecoms and energy, because post, as i have often said in this house, is about people; it is about frontline public service.
i am appalled that we are still producing legislation which puts jobs at risk for no real environmental benefit.
what the fisheries committee set out to do was to produce a maritime strategy designed to develop protection, enhance our marine heritage and encourage the sustainable exploitation of our seas and oceans, but i think – to repeat what the commissioner said – without effectively tackling the fundamental causes of climate change now, the whole eu maritime policy could be rendered worthless.
a sustainable fishing industry helps to meet this criterion and thus if fishing does not take its rightful place at the core of the eu’s maritime strategy then these needs will be met by products caught by people using methods and in places over which we have no control at all.
this would bring benefits to everybody and to the environment as a whole.
companies who pollute the sea should contribute to an eu-wide fund geared toward fisheries restocking and environmental conservation.
i also agree with the commission that the network of marine protected areas across eu waters should be extended and a system of integrated coastal zone management set up to ensure that we put a stop to the wanton degradation of habitats and sharp decline in biodiversity which have been all too commonplace in recent years.
scotland is energy rich with oil and gas reserves and offshore wind and wave generation potential.
scotland has excellent marine research facilities which can contribute to a better understanding of marine environment issues, and, in spite of the cfp, scotland still has a high proportion of the eu’s fishing industry.
we need to build on the eu-funded centre promoting renewable energy in lowestoft – due to open this year – where my region’s potential for offshore wind development could meet 25% of the united kingdom’s electricity needs and make a major contribution towards european targets to cut carbon emissions.
in port development, tourism and regeneration, we have to make the concept of sustainable development a reality.
the commission believes that action should be taken in three areas in particular: first, social inclusion: social inclusion is a crucial element of sustainable development in europe.
most importantly, there is a need for sustainable economic recovery in europe to be built on job creation rather than on rigging the rate of exchange to ratchet up export-driven growth.
and, yes, if we talk about the future, let us not forget the fight against climate change.
let us look at how we can merge the gothenburg and lisbon agendas and use innovation in green technologies to help us be more innovative, create more jobs and lead the world in setting the climate change agenda.
africa needs europe, and europe needs africa if we are to deal successfully with migration, disease and climate change.
in addition, we are seriously concerned at the environmental impact the existence of two seats has in terms of carbon emissions.
the council representative said that we support steps to sustainable democracy – and of course we do.
i want today to urge president musharraf to ensure that these forthcoming elections not only take place but that they do so in an environment that will be conducive to ensuring that a clean bill of health can be given to them by any international observer mission, whether it is one sent by the european union or anyone else.
looking to the longer term, there has been a lot of debate about whether this was just freak weather or whether it is the impact of climate change.
i very much welcome the commission’s green paper on adaptation to climate change.
ukraine, as well as being the eu’s immediate strategic neighbour, is our vital trading partner in energy matters.
while i can applaud the environmental aspects and proposals for practical forms of cooperation in the piecyk report 'towards a future maritime policy', i however cannot support the calls for many proposals that this report contains, such as the setting up of an 'eu coastguard service'.
the report is vitally important in trying to highlight a new approach to protecting our marine environment.
however, the need for a comprehensive approach to our marine environment with clear and transparent lines of accountability is essential to protecting our marine environment for future generations.
i support the call for a resolution to the current crisis, for the government to tackle problems of corruption and to further integrate the country's energy markets with the union.
the majority of the british people realise that this is a colossal waste of money.
– mr president, europe comprises a widely diverse geography, terrain and climate, giving rise to a wide variety of lifestyles and economies.
with that, this report launches into a plan to undermine national responsibility for universal services by changing the definition of universal services and including health services, to take control of intellectual property rights, which we all know will include patents on software, to adjust business taxation without representation, to set up a sort of king canute’s throne on an isotherm in order to grab power and money through carbon trading.
equally important is the inclusion of social and environmental dimensions of the internal market, and of course the internal market needs to continue to deliver more choice, better quality and competitive prices for our consumers and small businesses.
these informal, practical networks provide quick solutions to very complex problems in what is perceived by our citizens as a bureaucratic environment.
what we want from the commission, given that the uk government has now applied for solidarity funding, is a rapid response to that application, but at the same time we need all the eu institutions to make climate change a top priority.
when we have a major piece of legislation coming through this house in the next few months, i hope that colleagues will bear in mind the natural disasters of this summer and make sure that we make our contribution to tackling the long-term issue of climate change, and i hope there will be no more of these natural disasters on the scale we have seen this summer.
i strongly support regulation being done in a least-cost and most efficient way, to help the development of a more competitive european economy and deliver better social, environmental and economic outcomes at the same time.
as a socialist, i have no difficulty in putting further burdens on industry to protect health and safety, the environment or raise the minimum wage.
the end of vehicle life directive that came into force some years ago was estimated by the british cabinet office to have cost the economy gbp 400 million (eur 590 million) while providing environmental and social benefits at a level of gbp 100 million (eur 150 million) per annum.
if these figures are anything like accurate, this directive was a political and environmental failure.
i will also vote for paragraph 16, part 2, which states insufficient attention has been given to nuclear energy as a tool with which to tackle climate change in a balanced way and would hope that as a result a discussion could start based on facts and not on fears with regard to the role that nuclear energy can bring to climate change as part of a well balanced energy policy.
he said that about pollution, for example, that it's a sensitive issue.
moreover, a complementary study has been launched by the commission in dg environment dealing with the long-term effects of genetically modified crops on health, biodiversity and the environment.
the legislative framework for the authorisation of gmos for placing on the market and for deliberate release into the environment in the eu does not provide the possibility to establish zones where the cultivation or placing on the market of gmos is generally prohibited.
a general ban would contradict community legislation, in particular directive 2001/18/ec on the deliberate release into the environment of gmos.
indeed, only gmos that have been scientifically evaluated as safe for the environment and animal and human health are authorised to be placed on the market.
to date, the results from our research projects do not indicate any reasons why a gm-free status would be beneficial for public health or for the environment.
i am not against investing in modern infrastructure, in transport and in the environment, which is important.
for example, a key criterion for the selection of the kics will be their capacity to ensure long-term and sustainable financing, including a substantial contribution from the private sector.
mr president, i very much welcome this report and the compromise position that came from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, with the sole exception of the clause on labelling, which we will try to put right in the vote tomorrow.
the interesting debate covered bilateral relations between the european union and brazil, regional issues, including developments in europe and latin america, but also global issues such as the doha development agenda, effective multilateralism, climate change, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, and energy issues.
on the issue of climate change and energy, both sides referred to the international conference on biofuels, which took place on 5 and 6 july in brussels, as a step in the right direction to dispel criticism that the use of biofuels allegedly carries risks.
the president of the commission, josé manuel barroso, referred to three key areas: the definition of common technical standards for a sustainable international market for biofuels, biofuels as a means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and achieving food security.
president lula, for his part, linked the debate on climate change to reducing pollution, in which the energy-combination approach practiced by brazil over the past twenty years has proven to be more environmentally friendly and more sustainable than the high-tech engines of the european union.
but i must confess i have difficulty with the extension of the concept to cover just about every conceivable aspect of human activity: social, environmental, economic and cultural rights, to name but a few that are repeatedly referred to.
i look at one paragraph in particular: ‘considers that the time is not ripe to propose the introduction of a maximum sustainable yield [msy] system’.
five years ago, i was at johannesburg, where the european union signed up to the principle of securing maximum sustainable yield status by 2015. we were not talking about introducing a policy by 2015; we were talking about getting the fish up to those levels by 2015. it should not have been just a piece – it has to be more than that.
the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations has estimated that the catch of 70% of fish species on this planet has already reached or exceeded maximum sustainable yield (msy).
the common fisheries policy, with the disgraceful problem of discards that results from it, has made a major contribution to what is potentially a grave ecological disaster, especially in the north sea.
the commission’s interpretation of msy is based on outdated models and dogmatic ecological concepts.
we have had years of talk about sustainable fisheries, and as many years of bureaucratic controls.
yet within the new proffered maximum sustainable yield model, we still have this flawed overlapping of the tac quota system with the fishing effort system.
we all want sustainable fisheries, but that means sustainability for fishermen too.
it notes that it will be difficult to apply the maximum sustainable yield model to multi-species fisheries, which certainly applies to most that scots fishermen are involved in.
madam president, few of us will dispute the importance of having long-term sustainability of commercial fish stocks.
the eu signed up to the commitment made by the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg in 2002 to reach maximum sustainable yield (msy) in fisheries by 2015 at the latest.
a more important focus is bringing fishing opportunities into better balance with available stocks for a more sustainable future.
that means that the consumer law that we all know in our national environment is a law that has some resonance between us and our citizens.
as a consequence of climate change and human intervention with deforestation and over-farming, more and more of the world is becoming a desert.
in the mean time, we have the unconstitutional and unsatisfactory situation of a civilian caretaker government with the support of the military trying to keep law and order in an increasingly desperate and violent climate.
the next item is the report by britta thomsen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a road map for renewable energy in europe (2007/2090(ini)) (a6-0287/2007).
renewables have been part of the energy mix in europe and part of european energy policy for a number of years and this report very usefully highlights why they have not yet expanded to their full potential.
member states should be doing more to get rid of the technical and administrative barriers currently hampering the expansion of renewable electricity.
on the one hand, we need a new commitment and investment in large-scale renewable energy projects such as offshore wind farms in northern europe, solar collectors around the mediterranean and tidal barriers.
i particularly welcome paragraph 38, which stresses the need for compulsory use of renewable technologies in all new and renovated buildings.
it is time for a major revision of the energy performance of buildings directive, not least because the renewables roadmap needs to be considered hand in hand with the eu’s action plan on energy efficiency.
the binding target of 20% eu energy from renewables by 2020 is much more likely to be met if we succeed in cutting total eu energy consumption.
the way to cut carbon emissions is to have renewables as an increasing element of a decreasing energy requirement.
on the question of biofuels, i would emphasise the absolute necessity for all biofuels, whether imported or produced in europe, to satisfy sustainability criteria in respect of net co2 savings, biodiversity protection, water resources and effects on food production.
in december, though, we will need to look very carefully at the commission’s proposals to make sure that they meet the strict sustainability criteria parliament is demanding.
finally, this roadmap for renewable energy should not just be a roadmap for europe.
by supporting investment in renewable energy technology in the developing world, we can achieve two crucial objectives.
first, much-needed growth can be achieved without the cost to the planet of increased carbon emissions and, secondly, developing countries can achieve, through renewables, a degree of energy independence and energy security.
i want to reflect a little on the dilemma posed by large-scale hydro or tidal schemes, or a massive shift into biomass energy crops, because each has advantages, but each also has environmental implications and costs.
that cost is justified, however, partly by co2 emissions saved and partly by flood damage prevented, and the value of the electricity generated is only a small part.
then we have to consider the huge environmental impact of such a scheme on the bristol channel and its associated features such as the severn tidal bore, a special feature, and the surrounding wetlands.
so it seems to me that there is a dilemma, a conflict between the two interests, and the same applies to converting a lot of land to produce miscanthus or other energy crops.
finally, let us not forget the huge potential of energy efficiency; but that is for another debate.
bearing in mind that we are all being railroaded by these directives due to one single tunnel, it may lead some to say that the channel tunnel should be concreted up in the middle and the british and the french could then use their respective halves for the safe storage of nuclear waste.
the whole thrust of cap reform now is to give support to farmers for environmental reasons, but also very much to push them in the direction of producing for the market place.
yet we throw open our doors to chinese goods which are the product of woeful production conditions, fall far short of what we require of our own factories and come from plants which belch out emissions as if there was no tomorrow.
i say to ms breyer, a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, who quite rightly talks about legislation: there is little point in putting in place legislation in the european union if all we do is import products which do not meet the same standards that we are putting forward within the european union.
i supported the thomsen report and strongly believe that more effort should be directed towards the promotion of renewable energy.
my own country, scotland, has immense potential in the field of renewable energy and the scottish government has recently signalled its intention to promote as diverse a range of renewable technologies as possible.
i believe that scotland's efforts have a vital role to play in the eu's targets for renewable technology.
biofuel production can accelerate global warming by speeding up the destruction of forests, peatlands, healthy soils and other ecosystems which are carbon sinks and which help to regulate the climate.
renewable energy in europe is an important issue, which, in my mind, does not get the recognition it fully deserves.
in this era of energy crisis, global warming and diminishing stocks of the most traditional fossil fuels, it is right that parliament should examine a better use of renewable energy.
however, i would also like to point out that we still have large reserves of coal throughout the eu and, with the development of clean coal technology, i pose the question whether or not our abandonment of coal, as a source of energy, was premature?
i will support this report, but i think we must be realistic in what can be achieved with wind or wave energy, especially when matched up with the ever-increasing energy demands of the eu.
i think it is right to ask the commission to draw up action plans involving renewable energy including wind, wave and solar power generation, as well as developing a strategy for biofuels.
although in regard to this, we must ensure that we do not save the planet, environmentally, only to see its population starve to death, which is why the committee's call for a fair balance between food and energy production is a correct stance to take.
i can vote for this report and believe that its overall objectives are balanced against the back-drop of continued concern over energy security.
renewables are an important aspect of our future electricity generation but still we need to work with existing energy production.
as they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: question no 38 by katerina batzeli (h-0655/07) subject: payment of cap support for areas hit by fires the recent fires in greece had a disastrous impact on farming, particularly in the olive oil, fruit and vegetable and wine sectors, with serious consequences for the environment and the development of these regions, posing a major threat to the continuation of farming activity.
how will the implementation of the new com for wine be ensured in areas hit by fires, in particular as regards the commission's proposals for granting direct aid to wine-growers who use practices that respect the environment?
question no 39 by georgios karatzaferis (h-0661/07) subject: funding of non-governmental organisations and bodies for immediate reafforestation in greece greece recently suffered the greatest environmental disaster in its history.
however, many greek environmental bodies and monasteries located on burned land possess the know-how and the scientists necessary to organise the rapid reafforestation of these areas by extensive planting operations.
how can the commission provide funding directly to non-governmental organisations, monasteries, environmental bodies etc.
outside the framework of the third csf) so that they can immediately restore the environment in greece's forests which have been destroyed by fire?
according to the nano dialogue project, 48% of people in the eu want a moratorium on the use of nanotechnology in consumer products until its effects on humans and on the environment are known.
what is wrong with the old agreement that russia has actually signed, the energy charter, including the transit protocol?
madam president, when the eu talks of a common foreign policy on energy, you need to be very aware of exactly who you propose to do business with.
these are the people around whom you want to mould your foreign policy on energy.
we also need to consider how we can retain the environmental benefits within our set-aside system, such as maintenance of permanent pastures, the protection of riparian strips and measures that are also linked to climate change.
as we remove set-aside, we must remember that there have been some environmental benefits to it and we must remember, too, that farmers will have the choice now as to whether to plough up set-aside land or not.
we can still have the six-metre strips around the fields and hedgerows on environmental means and i think that is also very good.
on the environmental benefits of the set-aside, it is obvious, as i said in my first intervention, that we will have to look into this in the health check to see whether we can find solutions to maintain the benefits of the environmental biodiversity issue in the set-aside.
clearly the european union needs to co-ordinate its approach to external sources of energy much better than at present.
however, i can see no value in the proposal for a high official for foreign energy policy believing it would only cause confusion with the role played at present by mr solana, and i therefore voted against this proposal.
i did on the other hand vote in favour of the reference to unbundling energy production and energy transmission and distribution.
british conservatives recognise the need for the 27 member states to show more solidarity in terms of external energy policy as all member states in the coming years become increasingly dependant on imported oil and gas from third countries who could otherwise pick off the more dependant and vulnerable states to the detriment of the union as a whole.
this does not mean that we endorse a common energy policy, in particular, that the eu for instance can determine individual member states’ energy mix such as the proportion of fossil fuels versus renewables.
the european parliamentary labour party supports much of this resolution, in particular the priority given to supporting renewable sources of energy, promoting energy as one of the cornerstones of the european neighbourhood policy and calling for increased safeguards against pollution.
we abstained on amendment 2 and on paragraph 13 as we feel that the position of a new high official for energy policy could lead to unnecessary confusion.
we voted in favour of paragraph 62 maintaining the reference to unbundling of energy production as we wish to be consistent with a previously stated position which considers transmission ownership unbundling to be the most effective tool to promote investments, fair access to the grid and transparency in the market.
i have long argued against the waste of resources, the duplication, the divisions, indeed the sheer duplicity involved in the eu’s attempts to develop a military capability.
in an increasingly cut-throat, globalising world, where challenges like climate change, migration and terrorism demand radical responses, the lowest common denominator is just not good enough.
i do also wish that europe would concentrate more on the paths of globalisation, alleviating world poverty and tackling climate change.
i would rather secure the reformed treaty and then move on with a greater capacity for the union to address the real issues that citizens are interested in: climate change; the performance of our economy; overseas development aid; the environment – all those things for which we need the union, because alone and separately, we are not effective, but together we can do more.
the common fisheries policy has ruined britain’s fishing industry and caused an ecological disaster in british waters.
the commission's proposals are realistic, because they do not ignore the economic and environmental constraints which must be taken into account.
but nevertheless, in this action plan we are tackling the problem of the construction of new infrastructure, which is sometimes indispensable, and we want to plan this new infrastructure better to better appreciate its usefulness, its location, to strengthen its environmental compatibility.
i thank her and the committee on transport for the quality of their work and for helping us to advance this important matter for the harmonious and sustainable development of the whole air transport sector.
aviation has done much to meet its environmental obligations by developing and adopting new technology and improving operational efficiencies.
this would greatly enhance capital and capacity utilisation of airport infrastructures and of the aircraft themselves, facilitating better productivity and cheaper services with less than proportionate environmental impact.
those bodies responsible for providing the environment in which airlines operate must facilitate greater productivity by providing adequate and efficient infrastructure and imposing only appropriate regulatory conditions.
i am not sure that the call in the report to accompany the growth of air transport by measures limiting its external cost is quite enough, because we know there is a lot we can and must do to at least moderate aviation growth to a sustainable level – whether through emissions trading, proper and fair taxation, building high-speed rail alternatives and so on – in order to combat global warming and safeguard against the dangers of air pollution and noise nuisance.
i was surprised to see that there was no opinion from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, so i am sure – and i hope – that the risk of lack of consistency between this report and the resolution last year on reducing the climate change impact of aviation will be avoided.
this report must be seen in the light of that resolution, and not in any way – and i am sure it is not the intention, at least of the rapporteur – giving comfort to this idea that you simply build airports based on predictions, many of them from airlines, about increased demand, without all the other measures that we know we need to take to have sustainable aviation.
sustainable development is impossible without taking account of gender equality and the right to dignity and peaceful existence.
some of us have pointed out repeatedly over the years that the car makers were failing to comply with the terms of the voluntary agreement to reduce emissions.
average emissions from new cars stand now at a little less than 160 g of co2 per kilometre – a long way adrift from the target of 140 g by 2008. therefore, it is not surprising that members here want car makers to be punished for breaking their commitment.
yet the fact is that the manufacturers have broken no laws and, however much we may wish it were otherwise, the level of emissions is where it is.
but, given where we are, are the target and the timetable set by the commission still appropriate, because, of late, the reduction in average emissions has been hardly more than 1 g a year?
these improvements may increase the price of new cars but, then, reduced emissions mean improved fuel economy, so those who buy the cars will save money as they drive them.
get it right and we can take action which will be good for the environment, good for the consumer and good for the future of car making.
that is why i am asking parliament to break from the commission position and recommend that the target for average emissions from new cars should be set not for 2012 but for 2015 and should be 125 g to be achieved by technical means alone.
by all means let us encourage the use of complementary measures to reduce emissions, but as an addition, not as a substitute, for these technical improvements.
if i can help bring together the different positions of the committee on industry, research and energy and of the committee on environment, public health and food safety, then i believe it will strengthen parliament’s position and influence.
equally important is the need to set long-term targets to reduce emissions to below 100 g by 2020. given sufficient time, and an absolute requirement, i have no doubt that manufactures can achieve reductions of nearly 40% over the next 13 years.
the technical expertise of the companies themselves is much to be admired, but for too long they have ignored the contribution their products are making to the threat posed by climate change.
i have also tabled – jointly with mr davies – an amendment to recognise the contribution of small-volume manufacturers who do not have a huge product range with which to average out the emissions requirements.
back in march, the eu leaders signed up to cut overall co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. if we are going to get there, we need to bring forward legislation which helps us to get there.
they want to know we are serious about tackling climate change.
of course it makes the ritual genuflection to climate change hysteria, despite the increasing doubts over the supposed link between co2 and climate.
however, it also recognises the importance of diversifying energy supplies and of using fossil fuels, including coal, in the energy mix.
it emphasises the need for energy security, and in this context rightly points to the need for energy efficiency, for continuing use of domestic resources, including coal, and for nuclear energy – both the current use of fission and the vital research on fusion, which is the great hope for the future.
the most remarkable factor in the energy debate is the way that the greens and their fellow travellers agonise over carbon emissions but oppose the only mainstream low-carbon-generation technology.
with oil at usd 90 a barrel, it is time for ms harms to recognise that nuclear power is the cheapest, safest, cleanest, most sustainable and most predictable base-load-generating technology available.
as my colleague mr vidal-quadras has said, nuclear waste disposal is simply a technical problem which has now been solved.
in europe, we have a vast renewable energy potential.
in paragraph 47, carbon-capture is experimental but it is promising, and in paragraph 47 we call on the commission to lay down, as soon as possible, clear political guidelines for the promotion of research into carbon capture and storage.
– mr president, it says this is a contribution, but it is more like a recipe, a recipe for the harmonisation of yet more taxation, which i quote here and there from the report: ‘27 different tax systems’ are an ‘impediment’; ‘coordination of member states’ fiscal policy’; ‘calls on the member states to ... ensure greater fairness in the distribution of the tax burden’; ‘supports’ the commission in gearing ‘fiscal policy towards ... environmental objectives’; ‘increase in fuel taxes’; ‘establish a pan-european ... corporate tax base’.
may your name, like caesar’s, forever be associated with the historic changes you wrought in lisbon – changes like normalising codecision, ending the tyranny of council vetoes, placing energy, and justice and home affairs, under democratic scrutiny: these changes give our union the capacity to confront the challenges of globalisation.
on the other hand, the conservative vision for europe focuses on the three key areas of global competitiveness, global climate change and global poverty.
these e-mails come from an organisation called pesticide watch, whose constituent organisations received large amounts of funding from the european commission – indeed, part of the eur 11.7 million spent in the last two years under the budget line relating to the community action programme promoting non-governmental organisations (ngos) primarily active in the field of environmental protection and the life+ programme.
our parliament could have done much more in this vote today to protect people from cancers, from leukaemia, from non-hodgkin’s lymphoma and a whole range of other diseases, and i am very disappointed indeed that we did not take up that option, which had been put forward in the committee on the environment.
i voted for this report and am pleased that it combines the sustainable use of pesticides with effective health and environmental protection.
therefore, the ep’s continued monthly commute to strasbourg totally contradicts this, especially with our focus on climate change.
question no 50 by lambert van nistelrooij (h-0690/07) subject: merger between suez and gaz de france on 3 september it was announced that the boards of the french energy company suez and the state enterprise gaz de france had decided to proceed with the planned merger.
this would create the fourth largest energy company, after gazprom, electricité de france and eon.
does the commission believe that these merger plans still accord with the current principles which it espouses with regard to liberalisation of the energy market in the european union?
question no 53 by georgios papastamkos (h-0682/07) subject: trade and climate change the eu is - quite rightly - at the forefront of political action to tackle climate change.
what initiatives does it intend to take to address the problem of environmental dumping and to ensure reciprocity between the eu and its trading partners as regards compliance with environmental standards at bilateral, regional and multilateral levels?
– mr president, may’s summit in samara exposed the cracks in our strategic partnership with russia – on energy, on kosovo and on human rights.
we need a pragmatic approach, cooperating where we can on issues of mutual concern, like border crossings, energy supply, and joining the wto – although yesterday’s announcement on price controls on foodstuffs suggests a return to the economic policies of the past.
i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on energy issues which canvasses many areas of energy efficiency, supply and conservation.
i did not support amendments endorsing nuclear power: my view is that sustainable, renewable energy resources should be developed and that research & development efforts should focus on these areas first.
secondly, on the politics of it, this was the first real vote on climate change.
it was not a piece of legislation – that will come – but, by failing to support the 2012 date backed by the european commission, i think that the alde group and the ppe-de group in this house failed the first test on climate change and the people out there will be looking at what happened here today and wondering whether we really are serious about the commitments we made back in march to reduce co2.
we talk about europe being a europe of the environment.
i voted for the original version of this report, which proposed tough limits on emissions of 120g carbon dioxide/kilometre by 2012. unfortunately, the proposal was weakened by tory and liberal meps to allow for a higher emissions limit and a longer phase-in period.
simply put, the incentivisation of growth of small businesses and job creation, as well as environmental issues, is seen as a positive.
the agreement has been signed for a period of five years (renewable) from its entry into force, and it grants fishing opportunities to vessels from spain, france, italy, portugal and the united kingdom.
this is particularly true in relation to directives relating to lisbon and climate change.
on 4 january 2006 the energy performance of the buildings directive should have been implemented in all member states.
this would have led to massive energy savings.
the eu will lose credibility and its attempts to reduce carbon emissions will not be taken seriously unless its laws are respected on time.
but, finally, i would like to welcome the renaissance of nuclear energy – as the commissioner has said, at both european and international level – because of the vital role it will have to play in dealing with climate change.
but, if, true to form, the eu nonetheless decides to meddle in this national issue, then one initiative it could consider is to introduce a payment to farmers in return for providing carbon sequestration in soil management and farming practices.
in my view, the emissions trading scheme is the most cost-efficient, demand-sensitive and objective market-based instrument available for reaching europe’s greenhouse gas emissions reduction target of at least 20% by 2020. the aviation sector’s contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is growing fast, and i therefore fully support its inclusion in the emissions trading scheme.
auctioning is much more economically efficient; it encourages new entrants, innovation, and the reduction of emissions through technological and operational improvements.
there is much potential for technological innovation, to reduce the sector’s co2 emissions.
furthermore, the single european sky, which the commission mentioned, when fully implemented will reduce co2 emissions by up to 12%, and this should be put into operation with urgency.
however, i have to say that i appreciated his work a lot more before he had to seek compromises within his political group, which, if adopted, would substantially weaken the position taken by an overwhelming majority in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety just last month.
that matters, because we have to substantially strengthen the commission’s original proposal if we are to have any real chance of seriously reducing the impact of aviation on our climate.
according to the commission’s own figures, all its proposals are currently going to achieve is that, by 2020, instead of aviation emissions growing by 83% under a do-nothing scenario, they would grow instead by 78%.
since aviation emissions have already doubled since 1990, to call for an initial allocation equivalent to average emissions over the period 2004-2006, or even 80-90% of that, is simply too generous.
aviation and the other industries will be able to continue to increase their emissions without constraint by merely buying up the supposed reductions made elsewhere, and, considering recent reports that up to half of reductions from cdm and ji projects are questionable, this will fundamentally undermine the integrity of the entire scheme.
tomorrow the european parliament faces a serious test of whether it really wants to take real action on climate change, and, if it is going to show genuine leadership, then it needs to support the green amendments.
mr president, we propose to bring a new industry, aviation, into the european emissions trading system (ets), yet that system is spectacularly failing.
it has not reduced carbon emissions at all, yet it has created a whole new stratum of bureaucracy, administration and expense for industry.
so big foreign polluters will make vast profits for little effort, great damage will be done to european economies and co2 emissions will continue unchecked.
mr president, i have here a letter from general motors complaining about parliament’s position on reducing carbon dioxide emissions from cars.
i have another letter from british airways – another bit of special pleading – complaining about this measure and how the extra costs will mean it will be more difficult for them to invest in the lower carbon technology in planes that they wish to have.
this report says that, within 20 years, up to two billion people will face severe water scarcity, partly because of climate change.
michael o’leary of ryanair may be the unacceptable face of public relations for the airline industry, but he speaks a lot of truth when he says, very clearly, that he does not give a toss for the environment so long as he can stuff his pockets and those of his company full of gold.
we have to ensure and facilitate the position of our constituents who enjoy travel, but we also have to make sure that the concerns for the environment are properly addressed.
it is pretty much accepted that the carbon emissions in relation to aviation are currently a very small proportion of the overall carbon emissions of the eu.
this is why it makes absolute sense to accept that aviation is likely to continue to grow, but we need to ensure that this growth is offset in other sectors of the economy which do have alternatives in terms of reducing carbon emissions.
that is why it is essential that aviation is brought into the emissions trading scheme (ets).
it is right, therefore, that many of these carbon creators should be auctioned, especially when the wholesale reform happens.
i am sure many of us could think of countless ways to spend that kind of money, but i believe it would be sensible if we could steer this money via the eu budget, if possible, to spend on climate change initiatives which could include transfers of finance to the developing world including, for example, to pay for reforestation in developing or emerging countries.
but, also, there needs to be recognition that even in our own member states we are likely to see a huge increase in terms of energy poverty.
mr president, tonight, for once, parliament really can lead the way in protecting the environment.
and, like ms lucas, i appeal to all the groups in this parliament to think about how they vote tomorrow; be prepared to compromise, be sensible, be realistic, but above all, be positive, because parliament has a chance to be at the forefront of protecting the environment for 500 million citizens and their descendants.
– aviation should be brought within the scope of the emissions trading scheme.
it should be a useful means of ensuring that the aviation industry plays its part in the fight against climate change.
of course, none of us believes that this development alone is the answer to the emissions problem but it does represent a significant step in the right direction.
what we must also see is essential reforms of the way the emissions trading scheme works.
in all of this we must ensure that the consumer is not unfairly burdened with huge rises in the cost of flying and consider looking at other ways in which co2 emissions from the aviation industry can be reduced.
i am aware that eu transport ministers are currently doing this by examining ways of modernising air traffic control and introducing new systems of landing fees related to greenhouse gas emissions.
to explain and justify the treaty to national parliaments and to public opinion, we ought to put greater stress on the social and cultural dimension of the single market, such as migration policy, as well as on the fight to combat climate change.
i wonder how he has got the front to talk about a sustainable europe when we still have the same common fisheries policy, we are still throwing back, dead, up to 50% of the fish we catch and yet we are going to stick with the quota system.
we obviously want it on emissions trading.
we want progress on climate change, quite clearly.
we want progress both in terms of what we can do through legislative restriction on emissions and so on, but also what we can do to encourage individuals.
– mr president, i am very pleased to see that climate change remains one of the key priorities of the commission for the coming year.
i understand why commissioner dimas is delaying the publication of the ets and the other parts of the energy package until the new year, but i hope that does not mean that we are losing our resolve on climate change.
there is a certain amount of scepticism in washington and elsewhere about how serious the european union is about climate change.
it would be a real shame at a time when we are seeing changes in washington, on both sides, republican and democrat, where we are seeing changes in australia and a willingness to begin dialogue in china and india, if we were to stumble on our reform package on climate change.
we cannot just ‘talk the talk’ on climate change; we have to ‘walk the walk’ on climate change.
but you also need the support of this house, and i say to the colleagues opposite and to the liberals: last month, on cars, you let us down on climate change because you watered down the commission proposals.
there will be another test later this morning on aviation emissions and i hope that we will have a strong package.
– mr president, i welcome very much the emphasis given in the 2008 work programme to the importance of a sustainable european energy policy.
however, to my mind, the really shocking statistic is that in europe we use 40% of our energy in buildings – in heating, cooling and lighting – even though we have the technology to design and engineer our buildings to have virtually no energy requirements at all.
therefore, i want to make a plea to the commission to be radical in its review of the energy performance of buildings directive next year – point 2(c) of the strategic initiatives.
firstly, the minimum energy performance requirements for new buildings should be tightened.
we need to move very quickly to a passive house or ‘zero carbon’ standard, with no net energy requirement.
that would mean all buildings undergoing major renovation would be brought up to high energy standards.
we have to look at the energy wasted in existing buildings and not just at new buildings, because 75% of the buildings which exist today will still be standing in 2050. meps have been discussing the commission’s action plan on energy efficiency in the committee on industry, research and energy, and it seems to me that there is the political will in parliament for a radical revision of the energy performance of buildings directive.
i hope we can count on the commission to come forward with some strong proposals next year so that we can stop this completely unnecessary wasting of energy in our buildings.
mr president, i welcome the commission’s work programme and i look forward with keen interest to hearing how the eu is going to meet its extremely ambitious greenhouse gas emission and energy targets.
they are fascinated to hear about our emissions trading system and are talking about cap and trade but they are rather incredulous about how ambitious our targets are.
we have had the proposals from commissioner frattini – and all credit to him – but we need great pressure to be put on member states to respond to those proposals because the challenge of getting a comprehensive and well managed legal migration system for the eu should be up there with the challenge of climate change.
legislation which protects public health or the environment may cost money in the short run but saves far more in the long run.
i consider that the agency should be independent of euratom as the roles of promoting nuclear energy and controlling it should not in effect be joined.
the nuclear industry does not offer the solution for europe’s energy needs.
europe must strive to make more of our renewable energy potential and work to phase out the need for nuclear.
i voted in favour of this first reading report on the commission’s proposal to include the aviation sector in the eu emissions trading scheme, also backing the amendments to reduce authorised emissions from the proposed 100% level to 90%.
aviation is an important and fast-growing source of ghg emissions, and taking action to curb those emissions is vital in the fight against climate change.
i agree that aviation has to be included in any emissions trading schemes, but a balance has to be found between environmental considerations and those of the aviation industry.
some of the suggestions outlined by the committee on the environment in its report were frankly extreme.
do we want higher environmental standards but at greater cost, or not?
this has been made possible by the fact that the maldives are seriously threatened by climate change and because 'climate change and development' is the main theme of the edd.
why has the commission invited mr maumoon abdul gayoom (after all, there are other countries which are threatened by climate change but where more democratic governments are in power), and what is the commission's attitude towards his regime in the maldives?
when president sarkozy addressed us yesterday, he spoke of ‘different possible futures for the europe of tomorrow’, putting our policies for competition, energy and enlargement up for debate.
not globalisation in the rather narrow economic sense defined in this communication – although a stable euro and effective competition rules and market regulation are in all of our interests – but in its wider, more holistic sense, encompassing world population growth and migration; climate change and energy security; and internationally organised crime linked to terrorism.
my colleagues and i await urgent action on cutting energy use and fighting cross-border crime.
so the union must bring together the lisbon agenda with its focus on competitiveness, the cardiff agenda with its focus on social rights, and the gothenburg agenda with its focus on the environment.
that means stopping the hypocrisy of trade tariffs and fashioning a fair deal for developing countries in doha; clinching a contract on carbon emissions in bali, using our collective influence to get america on board; and building an international approach to financial markets, focusing on regulatory cooperation, convergence of standards and equivalence of rules.
those that have not taken environmental costs fully into account; those that have not taken social costs fully into account.
the new context that we face is not just about climate change.
it is true we need to rebalance trade, the social dimension and the environmental dimension.
with so many others in the face of climate change?
if we are talking about training and education, the sustainable development strategy now demands that we look at that within the context of climate change and environmental progress.
if we are talking about a low-carbon economy, how are we going to deliver that?
and in order to do so, he said, we must invest in people, in growth, in jobs, in energy security, in fighting climate change and in giving consumers a fairer deal.
of course, we must also lead the way in tackling climate change, and i welcome parliament’s decision to include aviation emissions and the emissions trading scheme, another sign of our willingness to lead the global community.
but, to date, economic globalisation has led to the acceleration of environmental degradation, poor conditions for workers and growing social imbalances.
the eu can help by making sure it improves labour and social standards across the world, including the cost of climate change in the market price to avoid environmental dumping.
i do agree that the way forward is to support small business and provide long-term sustainable jobs, high-quality jobs, and i do hope that the proposal for a small business act will help to achieve this in the long term.
i really do think that migration deserves to be a priority on the eu agenda, on a par with climate change and energy.
madam president, globalisation is blamed for everything, from population explosion to climate change to exploitation.
climate change and migration are, in my view, the two biggest, but we need to maintain high growth and jobs.
the launch of the integrated guideline package was supposed to lead to a balanced delivery of the economic, social and sustainability strands of the lisbon process but in practice, when it comes to the employment guidelines, it has been a case not of integration but of subordination.
russia and its leader vladimir putin have proved difficult of late in a number of areas, especially energy.
in particular we support calls for a positive russian contribution to finding a sustainable political solution on the issue of kosovo.
other issues covered included russia’s pending accession to the wto, human rights issues in russia, the climate for investment and ongoing concerns over the upholding of the conventional forces europe treaty.
the first piece of new european climate legislation to be decided upon since the march council is the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading system.
so the outcome of that is vitally important, not only in itself but for the signal that it sends to others at the bali conference about whether the eu is genuinely serious about its climate change commitments.
finally, i would caution against an over-reliance on carbon-offsetting mechanisms.
as a colleague of mine memorably pointed out, carbon offsets are about as useful as an anti-smoking campaign that pays someone else to stop smoking in the developing world while you continue cheerfully puffing away.
the eu has become far too dependent as well on russian energy resources, so we all agree that we must develop alternative sources.
and i think it indicates a growing consensus across the party spectrum on the importance of actively engaging in a political search for how best to submit trade rules to the principles of sustainable development.
in that respect, i think we can be pleased that we have made the most of the various delays at the wto doha round, which, in a way, have allowed us to conduct this search for more fair and sustainable trade rules in our bilateral trade relations.
in paragraph 10, i think the report rightly warns against relying exclusively on export orientation and export diversification in order to make trade sustainable.
instead, it focuses on the importance of developing the domestic market as a necessary basis for any economically sustainable development.
in paragraph 23, the report suggests a significant shift in our foreign energy supply policy by asking for multilateral rules regarding access to energy resources and by warning not to support the race for the best conditions for unilateral energy access.
now you can change a fragile state from being a fragile state to a post-fragile sustainable country, as we see happening in front of our eyes in sierra leone.
finland, for instance, has introduced a holistic sustainable approach that has been incredibly effective in reducing the number of people who are homeless.
i voted for this resolution from the climate change committee setting out the eu’s proposed negotiating position for the start of talks on the future of global climate change cooperation post-2012.
it sets out a sound and progressive eu position to drive reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions, taking note of the social impact of climate change, the eu’s desired intention to restrict global warming to 2°c or less, and the vital need for global buy-in to the system.
caps on emissions with targets to reductions alongside alternative non-carbon based energy production are not accepted by some jurisdictions in the way the eu has agreed.
it notes the areas where the eu and ukraine should strengthen their relationship, discusses a free trade area with the ukraine, energy supplies, and relations with russia.
secondly, flexicurity needs a whole range of factors in place to work properly: a good, stable macroeconomic climate, investment in good, active labour market policies, well-developed social dialogue and high-quality policies for social protection.
they want more eu involvement across the board, more involvement in combating terrorism, more cooperation in security and defence, and more action on the environment.
how can we combat climate change if we fail to act in concert?
the vote will take place on thursday, 29 november 2007.
the next item is the report by alain lipietz, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on trade and climate change (2007/2003(ini)) (a6-0409/2007).
– madam president, when it comes to climate change, trade is often seen as part of the problem, and it is true that some trade simply cannot be justified.
sending scottish prawns to thailand to be peeled and returned to scotland is just nonsense, and a waste of energy.
firstly, the setting of high energy-efficiency standards in europe for household goods such as fridges, dishwashers, microwave ovens and so on can not only lead to a reduction in co2 emissions here, but also create the conditions for higher standards elsewhere.
a second example mentioned by the committee on industry is green goods or, to use their proper name, environmental goods and services.
if we eliminate the tariffs on environmental goods and services, we can encourage trade in products that help third countries reduce their carbon footprint, such as the export of energy-efficient generators, wave technology and solar panels.
clearly, encouraging china to use the latest and most efficient technology could play an important part in allowing it to continue its growth without experiencing a proportionate increase in its carbon footprint.
a third and final area would be to empower consumers to make informed choices on what products they buy, through the provision of clear information on the carbon footprint of each product.
flowers from kenya, for example, have a much smaller carbon footprint than flowers grown in hothouses in holland, but a glance at the label would lead one to a different conclusion.
– madam president, al gore claims that the debate on global warming is over and that it has been proved beyond doubt that human activity is responsible for this.
i suggested recently in committee that the sun’s enormous influence on the earth’s climate over millions of years could not be ignored in this debate, and that the sequence of long ice ages, interspersed with short interglacial periods, was the most likely explanation.
the only co2 at issue in the global warming debate is the trivial amount produced by burning fossil fuels.
before we risk ruining the world’s economies with carbon emission taxes and the like, please let us reopen the debate and make absolutely sure who is right.
i consider that gmos represent a considerable threat to health and the environment in the eu and that all decisions on such matters deserve the fullest scrutiny possible.
it is important that we in the eu give our full support to the development of a tourist industry which takes account of local economies, cultural and linguistic diversity, and environmental well-being.
if we are serious about trying to control the production of ‘greenhouse’ gases we must ensure that these costs are factored in on each and every occasion.
yet this transition will need to be carefully managed if some of the poorest people in the world are not to bear the burden of the industrialised world’s profligacy in carelessly abusing the planet’s environmental resources.
i voted in favour of the lipietz report on trade and climate change.
the issue of climate change is one of the most pressing of the day and requires real action at national, eu and global levels.
whilst supporting today's report addressing many of the important international issues, i would also like to highlight the scottish government's proposals for a climate change bill.
the government has set a mandatory long-term target to achieve an 80% reduction in scotland's emissions by 2050. i believe that this is to be commended and hope that other eu countries adopt equally ambitious targets in their own efforts to combat global warming.
while there is a broad consensus on the need to reduce harmful emissions, the author of this report called for measures that would restrict trade with poorer countries – condemning their citizens to poverty, disrupting global supply chains and introducing unrealistic penalties.
conservatives believe that the best way to reduce harmful emissions is through more emphasis on technology, agreeing realistic targets and increasing trade with poorer countries so that they can afford to invest in cleaner, greener technology and processes.
i welcome this report, which sets out a number of realistic measures on how trade might be used as part of the fight against climate change.
solutions such as granting zero tariff rates to products with low greenhouse gas production/consumption values; the prohibition of exotic woods importation, a policy of labelling for energy efficient products and integrating aviation into the emissions trading scheme should all be progressed.
in 2005, all 27 member states agreed to abide by the framework for the setting of eco-design requirements for energy-using products.
in this week when the bali conference is occurring, it is a scandal that member states are failing to conform with measures that they have already agreed with and which could already have had a significant impact on tackling the issue of climate change.
if a consumer travelling on business or on holiday in the eu books a hotel, can he or she be sure that safety measures are in place to prevent fire or the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning or, indeed, whether the swimming pool is safe for children to swim in?
i do not believe it is rocket science to install fire sprinklers or carbon monoxide detectors.
mr harbour’s proposal around an eu rating system is certainly something we may want to look at, but that is something, i believe, that the consumer needs to have easy access to, and i believe the tour operators’ hotel systems should actually put that out for the consumer, so i can then decide i do not wish to go to the hotel or the villa that does not have a safe swimming pool, does not have fire sprinklers or does not have carbon monoxide detectors.
mr president, i know the commissioner has been very concerned about the issue of carbon monoxide safety in hotels since we had discussions about the death of two children from yorkshire over the last few months.
we should be looking at improvements to safety of services but in the short term i hope that at the meeting with hotel owners in february, which i am very pleased about, the commissioner can raise with them the issue of carbon monoxide safety.
here it is not a question of huge financial layout for hotel chains because you can go on the internet and find that the safest carbon monoxide detector costs gbp 36 in the uk, which is not a lot of money even for the smallest hotel or the smallest company owning caravans.
indeed, climate change will have to change things considerably before we can produce any wine in scotland!
– madam president, the rapporteur’s explanatory statement is instructive in that it depicts cross-compliance as a condition for continued public support, and tells us that farmers are now being paid for ‘complying with community legislation in the field of environment, public, animal and plant health and animal welfare’.
that neatly encapsulates everything that is wrong with the eu’s attitude to agriculture, with an aggressive regulatory regime diverting farmers away from their natural ambit of producing food and turning them into guardians of the environment, or what this report calls rural development policy, all of which adds mightily to their costs and reduces output.
i was able to support the compromise package reached across this house on the lienemann report on the marine environment.
the common fisheries policy perhaps serves as a template for how not to nurture the marine environment.
i therefore recognise that the eu has a valuable role to play in marine environmental policy but also believe that the needs and views of individual maritime communities must be factored into the equation.
air pollution causes serious health damage across the eu, leading to many thousands of premature deaths.
part one question no 34 by lambert van nistelrooij (h-0934/07) subject: energy - world trade organisation although the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) were not formulated with energy products and services specifically in mind, they also apply to them and protect investments in the energy sector.
however, in the energy trade, the distinction between production and services is not always clear.
in the run-up to the inclusion of energy policy as a competence of the european union in the new treaty, what measures will the commission take to tailor wto rules to energy investments and energy services as well?
question no 35 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0879/07) subject: sustainable urban development model towns and cities in the eu member states, particularly in those countries that joined the union in the 21st century, are growing at a fast pace and often without any clear vision.
urban development is therefore having a negative impact on the environment, and energy consumption is on the increase.
in 1990, the commission’s green paper on the urban environment recommended the compact city as an environmentally sound development model.
what are the eu’s recommendations concerning sustainable, environmentally sound urban development?
question no 37 by colm burke (h-0897/07) subject: european charter for small enterprises the european charter for small enterprises has the potential to play a central role in improving the business environment for small enterprises in the eu.
question no 38 by jim higgins (h-0899/07) subject: noise pollution from motor vehicles could the commission outline the legislation and guidelines currently in place to deal with noise pollution from motor vehicles, in particular the defined dba, if any, and state whether it will be making further efforts to ensure that noise pollution from motor vehicles is curbed?
question no 40 by giovanna corda (h-0871/07) subject: liberalisation of the energy market for the benefit of consumers the conclusions of a recent report commissioned by the european commission on the consequences for consumers of the deregulation of the european market in gas and electricity, as well as the very significant price rises recently recorded or announced, show that many member states were not yet ready to meet the challenge of liberalising this market.
this being the case, can the commission say how it intends to react to the considerable rises in energy prices which are hitting the consumers who should actually have been the main beneficiaries of the liberalisation?
question no 42 by bernd posselt (h-0892/07) subject: energy cooperation in south-east europe what measures is the commission taking to reduce the dependency of south-east european member states and candidate countries and the balkan states included in the thessaloniki process on russian energy supplies?
question no 43 by mairead mcguinness (h-0895/07) subject: ireland's integration into the eu energy market the security of ireland’s energy supply is becoming increasingly important for consumers, businesses and policymakers; hence the need for full interconnection with the broader european energy market.
to achieve this, the necessary infrastructure needs to be put in place to ensure a secure supply of safe and reasonably priced energy.
question no 53 by georgios papastamkos (h-0875/07) subject: eu funding of european environmental ngos through ngos civil society plays a very important role in meeting the needs of the process of european integration and new kinds of european governance.
which community action programme is currently in force for supporting european ngos active mainly in the environmental protection field?
which ngos (and which of their activities) which contribute to the further development and implementation of the community's environmental policy and legislation have so far received funding?
question no 54 by claude moraes (h-0878/07) subject: waste crime / protection of the environment through criminal law in february 2007 the european commission proposed a directive (cod/2007/0022) that obliges member states to treat serious offences against the environment as criminal acts and to set minimum sanctions for environmental crimes such as waste crime.
this is a positive step - as the environment agency of the uk government has pointed out, one major problem with fighting environmental crime is that fines are too low and thus do not offer sufficient incentives for compliance with environmental regulations.
however, given the obstacles facing this directive before it becomes law in member states, what other steps does the commission envisage in order to combat waste crime across europe?
i recently consulted with the environment agency in the united kingdom on this directive.
while we all welcome the prioritisation of the commission in this area, what i was hearing from the environment agency in my own member state was concern that the penalties and possible fines in member states will be pitched far too low for there to be any real incentive to obey rules where enforcement action would not actually occur.
this would result in massive fly-tipping and dumping of illegal waste.
do you have a view on this, bearing in mind also that the environment agency and other national agencies welcome these proposals very much?
what is the take-up rate for funds from the cohesion fund, the operational fund for the environment and the regional operational programmes for wastewater treatment plants in greece?
for the first time, we now have a regime in which independently manufactured parts that are a critical part of the safety and environmental systems of vehicles have to be tested independently to the same standards as the vehicle manufacturer’s own parts.
i look forward to hearing about improving europe’s competitiveness, about progress towards europe’s ambitious goals for tackling climate change and about europe’s commitment to working with the developing nations to alleviate poverty.
the consequence of climate change is that a greater acreage of england is now given over to viticulture than at any time since the reign of henry ii, during the last period of european warming.
the wine market in the eu depends upon the widest variety of choice and upon local production which is sustainable.
the chinese authorities themselves promised that they would bring a greater climate of freedom and openness.
the eu needs to have a critical engagement that rightly criticises china where it has gone wrong, where it must go further, at the same time as we engage in a dialogue on tackling global warming, the negative impacts of globalisation, african development and the fight against terrorism.
the next item is the commission statement on the shipping disaster in the sea of asov/black sea and the subsequent oil pollution.
that is why i urge colleagues to support the amendment that the greens and socialists have filed together, which reads: ‘calls on the commission to evaluate the usefulness of supply-side management tools for the clothing sector, in order to level off global competition and prevent a lowest-common-denominator approach to social and environmental standards.’ a completely liberalised market in sectors characterised by overproduction capacities brings misery to all but a few.
from my group’s perspective, we regard this proposal as an option in its own right that should be fostered independently of the contested 2010 euromed free-trade-agreement project, which, according to the sustainability impact assessments done by dg trade in the commission, would involve a significant number of quite negative social and environmental consequences.
my main concerns come in the field of, firstly, social and environmental standards.
as such, it can be a template for further ftas, and i would like to see our ambitions in relation to environmental and social standards raised.
i believe issues like ratification of key ilo conventions and the post-2012 application of any new climate change agreement cannot be left to mere gentlemen’s agreements or simply encouraging people to do things.
on the positive side, the report sets out some very good standards for trade and social and environmental fields, which greens absolutely support, and in that respect i think the report sets a very important precedent for further upcoming parliamentary responses to other free trade agreements, with india and asean, for example.
so we welcome the fact that the report insists that there must be no exceptions to the rule that access to the european market is conditional on compliance with environmental protection standards.
we welcome the fact that it demands that the trade agreement with korea incorporates binding social and environmental clauses and, to our mind, this by itself makes it difficult to contemplate that the north korean kaesong industrial complex would be included within the fta rules.
there are some very good reasons to qualify trade, especially when public policy wants to put in place controls for social, health or environmental reasons.
i am pleased that the european council remains committed to action on climate change.
he said, and i quote, ‘it is time to focus on the economy, on security, on the environment’.