the committee on transport and tourism has called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda includes the statements by the council and the commission on climate change.
we need concrete measures such as reducing carbon emissions, boosting renewable energy, clean fuels, new cleaner technologies.
of this financial contribution, 60% will allow annual financial support for defining and implementing a sectoral fisheries policy in gabon, with a view to introducing responsible and sustainable fishing.
the partnership agreement, which is accompanied by a protocol, has a duration of six years, while the technical and financial conditions for fishing activities have already started on 3 december 2005. the main objective of the partnership agreement, which goes beyond the narrow commercial framework of the previous bilateral agreement, is to develop a sustainable fisheries policy with responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, to strengthen coastal populations, to create small local freezing and processing industries through more general economic and scientific cooperation.
as the commissioner responsible for fisheries, mr borg, pointed out, this new agreement opens a new chapter in cooperation between the european union and the gabonese republic, as it will intensify its efforts to ensure the sustainability of fisheries in its waters.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the disposal of waste in the community is a good one, but it is not enough to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is compatible with the common market.
it would therefore be wrong to undermine the progress and consensus we have achieved in the committee on the environment with amendments which upset this hierarchy and propose incineration as the best solution, even though this method is a considerable burden on the environment.
the commission's legislative proposal is inadequate: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not recycled, and that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the recycling of waste is not carried out in a way that would be harmful to the environment.
we must support the development of new policy measures to gradually reduce waste, to strengthen research into products that will be easier to reuse, recycle and use for other reasons.
although progress has been made in recent years in waste management, there are still huge differences between member states in the volume of waste reused or recycled and in the way it is disposed of.
in my country, for example, but perhaps to a lesser extent in other countries, a very large proportion of waste ends up in uncontrolled disposal sites, while reuse or recycling is poorly developed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is not harmful to the environment.
the disastrous consequences will only be overcome if we propose, through the creation of national programmes, the prevention, that is, the reduction, of waste in the first place.
consider that in greece in 2000 4.5 million tons of waste were produced and in 2006 the waste reached 6 million tons.
about half of them are burning with serious environmental and public health impacts.
the volume of waste increases, the larger volume is landfilled.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is reused and recycled, and that the illegal transfrontier shipment of waste is increasing.
these are applicable in most member states and are rightly noted in the report on the 'thematic strategy for waste recycling'.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
it is therefore confirmed that the capitalist eu by its very nature cannot implement a waste management policy based on the protection of the environment and public health, because this is incompatible with the unhindered profit-making activity of capital.
mr president, energy means three things: nuclear, oil and gas.
we as europe, if we want our own energy, if we want gas directly from russia, why do we not push for this pipeline?
i think that is for the time being what we are doing and i hope that this current energy dialogue will genuinely result in a building of trust in the future.
we have just held a troika meeting with russia, and the questions relating to energy in general were discussed.
by the way, president putin has officially said that he accepts the principles enshrined in the energy charter: accessibility, free and equal access to the markets, and particularly transparency.
the commission is strongly in favour of forward-looking projects which address the water needs and environmental needs of the region, and it supports all the initiatives which involve cooperation between the neighbours on specific issues, particularly on water, a very important resource in the region, in order to find mutually satisfactory solutions.
but we also have to say that the construction of the ‘peace’ canal would be a huge undertaking, a huge endeavour, which could have a significant impact on the local environment without necessarily addressing the causes of these lower dead sea levels.
the commission notes that a feasibility study including an environmental and social impact assessment has recently been commissioned.
the current policy and financial arrangements of the current mfa, which have often distorted the market and the competitiveness of the product, should be transformed so that the community budget of eur 1.3 billion from pillar 1 is allocated to policies which will in the long term aim at: - to maintain and strengthen the european vineyard, - to promote the trade and competitiveness of the sector at european and international level, - to adopt a territorial approach which now takes account of the protection of the environment and natural resources through the use of agricultural farming practices financed by the community, - to balance supply and demand by controlling production through the distillation of by-products and alcohol and to modernise the vineyard register, - to ensure that the policies of the pdo are compatible or adapted to those of the cap, - to ensure the international and interregional recognition of european quality wines, wine geographical indications and designations of origin whose classification must now take account of the protection of the environment and natural resources by means of financed agricultural farming practices, - to strengthen the scientific cooperation between all the sectors of the wine-producing sector, from the council to the european parliament, and - to strengthen the cooperation between all the agencies and bodies involved in the sector, from the commission to the council, and to the international organisations involved in the sector.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the results of the paris conference are a disaster for those who thought that conflicts of interest could be overcome, in view of the serious risk of global warming and the catastrophic effects on the peoples of the earth in the medium and long term.
the resolution on climate change, however, while a text of concern, does not propose any substantive and concrete solutions.
it is clearly stated that the reduction of emissions will contribute to competition, to the achievement of the lisbon and kyoto objectives.
it is precisely this policy of capital that is responsible for pollution and emissions and cannot be a criterion for its protection.
and those that ratified the kyoto protocol have a cumulative significant deviation, while the united states continues to increase greenhouse gases along with china and india.
the kyoto protocol therefore has little practical bearing on reducing emissions.
the conclusion is that the eu of capital and its political representatives are destroying the planet with the pretext of environmental change and their only concern is how to make the most of the "market mechanisms" of kyoto.
the resolution targets the capital strategy, which the nd government is implementing faithfully with the support of pasok, namely the inflow of capital into the health, welfare and education sectors through public-private partnerships, the placing of research at the service of monopolies, the liberalization and commercialization of energy, the dismantling of industrial relations and the dismantling of the social security system.
the central objective of the alliance should be to support member states through this sustainable exchange.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the subject we are discussing here today is of particular interest in view of its impact on both the marine environment and legal fishermen.
in addition to environmental damage, it has adverse economic effects, because it distorts competition between fishermen and affects the viability of those who operate in compliance with the legislation in force.
we must protect the environment, legal fishermen, consumers, the law.
we will certainly continue to talk about energy and we will continue to talk about energy in direct connection with climate change and the strategy that is needed to combat it.
energy policy and environmental policy can no longer be separated; they are part of the same strategy.
from the point of view of security of supply, from the point of view of the sustainability required of any energy policy, and from the point of view of the search for greater competitiveness in an environment in which energy prices, unfortunately, will not be as low in the future as they were in the past, from all points of view, action at european level, action by the european union is essential.
mr president, i shall now turn to environmental matters.
this is due to many reasons, but two are the main ones: one is pollution and the other is overfishing.
i shall not mention the great problem of pollution; i would just like to mention one point: in the last 15 years alone, 55,000 tonnes of oil have been spilled in the mediterranean sea by various shipping accidents and have contaminated the coastlines.
it is an ecological necessity to designate protected areas, to extend the natura 2000 network to the seas.
a good practice map, voluntarily signed by enterprises, would help to promote actions for the living and working environment and facilitate a better combination of work and family life alongside cultural and educational offerings.
on the one hand, the dramatic change in the climate, largely due to the uncontrolled use and consumption of natural resources, and on the other the alarming expansion of poverty, combined with the reversal of the demographic pyramid, appear as results of the attempt to degrade work and overturn social acquis.
secondly, it must be recognised that companies must assume the responsibilities they have towards the environment, society and workers, which arise from their economic activity, without this of course being seen as a sacrifice on their part.
finally, this is a very good opportunity to demonstrate that competitiveness should not be linked to labour costs but to respect for environmental balances, the promotion of decent working conditions and social progress in general.
i have noticed that we have already started the first steps and it is clear that harmonization is not just a technical arrangement of the working environment, that it is a broader problem and that in general it is a debate about the fair distribution of life responsibilities between men and women.
on the one hand, the commission has been criticised for having very few women in the climate change and energy group.
however, our analysis has made it increasingly clear that managing the use of protected works online by territory is too complex, especially in the digital environment.
i am never satisfied, especially when it comes to environmental issues.
of course, we can do more because environmental awareness is of extreme importance.
you can see what is happening with climate change, now that people around the world and in the european union have become more aware of the threat it poses, because of newspapers and the media, and the reports available on the subject, such as the turner report, the ipcc report, and various reports by other scientific organisations like nasa, and because of the work done by the european parliament, by the commission and the european union.
last week’s historic agreement on the energy and climate change package will give us not only a leading position in the world in fighting climate change, but, most importantly of all, will enable us to be more effective in persuading other countries to come on board after 2012. children are very important, not only because, as you said, they develop good habits, but also because they influence their parents.
so it is really a very good investment to make children more aware of environmental issues.
the commission also intends to set up an investment fund for the european neighbourhood policy with €700 million in grants over the period 2007-13. the fund will support loans from the european investment bank and other european development banks, particularly in the transport, energy and environment sectors.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime industry is not left to the detriment of the environment.
the various states are now applying in part the provisions already contained in the convention, but in addition they are ensuring conditions of fair competition; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the marine environment is based on the principle of the protection of the marine environment, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty of rome.
i hope that the visit of the directorate-general for the environment will convince the maltese authorities to comply fully with the provisions of community legislation.
instead of taking measures to protect the environment, they are taking measures to protect businesses and strengthen monopolies.
the predatory exploitation of natural resources by capital is the main cause of the major climate changes and the real risk of ecological disaster on the planet.
but instead of taking bold measures to at least reduce the monopoly's insolvency, decisions are being taken to strengthen competition in the electricity and gas markets, to liberalise the energy market and to hand over the strategic sector of energy production, transmission and distribution entirely to private capital.
the european council has not only dealt with the climate, mr president, of course.
so we need a new kyoto to be signed by these three countries, which together have half the population and 65% of the energy.
instead of taking measures to protect the environment, they are taking measures to protect businesses and strengthen monopolies.
the predatory exploitation of natural resources by capital is the main cause of the major climate changes and the real risk of ecological disaster on the planet.
but instead of taking bold measures to at least reduce the monopoly's insolvency, decisions are being taken to strengthen competition in the electricity and gas markets, to liberalise the energy market and to hand over the strategic sector of energy production, transmission and distribution entirely to private capital.
i believe that the european union and the member states must - and here the german presidency must play its part - we must all, mr president, look at the dangerous dimension that the development of a nationalist climate in turkey is taking.
it can remain unarmed against the practices of unfair international trade competition, against the social and environmental dumping of certain emerging economies in the developing world.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
in this connection, i would like to mention the particular importance of granting state aid to island regions where fuel and energy costs have a negative impact on their competitiveness and the flexible application of both existing and future state aid in relation to transport costs, the implementation of an integrated tourism policy, the implementation of an effective business policy, the immediate creation of an administrative unit for islands in the directorate-general for regional policy on the basis of the existing experience of the administrative unit for outermost regions, the operation of which would ensure that the specificities and needs of the islands and their permanent and seasonal inhabitants are taken into account in the development and implementation of european policies, in particular in the areas of transport, water and energy management.
i am pleased that a number of issues have been incorporated in the report we are voting on today, such as the review of the terms of contracts to facilitate transport and transport on lines of low commercial interest, ensuring energy efficiency with a focus and priority on renewable energy sources, studying and taking measures to deal with the impact of climate change which is exacerbating existing problems such as water scarcity, broadband coverage to make life easier for islanders and to provide solutions to major problems, development in a rational and controlled way that protects the islands' natural features, tackling the problem of illegal immigration and the control of european coastlines.
its main objectives concern the facilitation of local authorities’ and non-state actors’ participation in poverty reduction and sustainable development strategies as well as strengthening their networking activities.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the environment.
it is stepping up its interventionist policy in africa to increase the plunder of its resources and to counter the growing trade of its countries with china and india, particularly in the energy sector.
key proposed measures such as the increase in vat and taxes on energy consumption from 2014 onwards will further disadvantage workers.
in greece, the one-point increase in vat and the continuing price increases for energy have contributed to the increase in the dead-end of ordinary families.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that, despite the verbal announcements, the practical effect of the strategy to improve the regulatory environment for better regulation of smes is meagre.
so, mr president, i think we should go ahead and vote on the rules of procedure as proposed by the committee on the environment, and i am of course against the two amendments by the committee on legal affairs.
similar problems exist in greece for other products, forcing our country, despite its soil and climate advantages in producing agricultural products, to import them, pushing the agricultural trade deficit into the millions of euros and forcing small and medium-sized farmers to be wiped out.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the solution cannot be found in a policy which sacrifices human lives and the environment at the expense of the shipowners' profits and uses seafarers as victims of its crimes.
the bureaucratic and technocratic directives and regulations of the european union cannot really protect human life, the environment and the rights of workers effectively.
mr president, commissioner, with the seven legislative proposals in the erika iii package and the corresponding reports by the european parliament, we are taking another step as europe to increase safety in maritime transport, to combat marine pollution and to strengthen the rights of passengers in the event of a maritime accident.
the tragic sinking of the sea diamond cruise ship three weeks ago in greece, which resulted in the loss of two lives and caused marine pollution, has highlighted the scale of human negligence, but also the inadequacy of the state authorities' response to such incidents by driving the ship to port of refuge.
i probably did not catch all the nuances of your question, but it must be said that, from the point of view of the commission, six of our buildings have received good marks from different certification agencies as regards their environmental requirements and energy efficiency.
of course, we have more than 60 buildings at our disposal in brussels and some of them are very old and should be replaced, but six buildings have been commended for their energy efficiency.
within the european social fund in particular, we pursue very specific actions which are targeted to reinforcing the social inclusion of disadvantaged people with a view to their sustainable integration and employment.
for example, in the operational programmes we already have measures that are already visible at this stage to improve access to employment and increase the sustainable participation and progress of women at the level of eur 2.7 billion to be invested across europe.
i cannot tell you today exactly how much will go towards water treatment in disadvantaged areas, but certainly one of the priorities under the first objective of the european policy – the accessibility of the regions – is also addressing environmental issues.
among the environmental issues there is also the issue of access to water and water problems in all their diversity.
climate change and the energy crisis facing the european union make it imperative for the community to take action and develop a well-structured strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources that is at least in line with the requirements set out in the sixth environment action programme.
i would like to stress the need for a strategy aimed at making more efficient use of natural resources, improving their management and waste management, with a view to adopting more sustainable production methods and consumption patterns, and decoupling resource use and waste generation from the pace of economic development on the one hand, and ensuring that their use does not exceed the potential burden on the environment that can be tolerated on the other.
the council as such is not involved in initiatives related to the leipzig charter for a sustainable european city and the eu's territorial agenda.
the leipzig charter and the eu territorial agenda are proposals by european ministers of spatial and urban development to better take account of urban and territorial realities in the implementation of eu policies, for example in how an integrated spatial and urban development policy can contribute to the lisbon and gothenburg goals of more sustainable economic growth and strengthening the european social model .
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i would like to take this opportunity, mr president, to refer to the report by my good friend mr andria, and in particular to a specific issue concerning the energy efficiency of buildings, an obligation which arises from the provisions of directive 2002/91.
i think that the same logic should be applied to the question of energy efficiency in buildings throughout europe.
at the same time, the commission should develop a specific programme to increase the use of biofuels by providing alternatives in the sugar sector and effectively supporting energy crops in the european union.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr adamou adamou, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on halting biodiversity loss by 2010 (2006/2233 (ini)) (a6-0089/2007).
it was precisely one year ago that the commission adopted its communication on halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010 and beyond.
given that tomorrow is international biodiversity day, it is a fitting time for parliament to debate its report.
i am pleased that parliament is using this opportunity to send a clear message to the world on the importance of protecting the planet’s biodiversity.
the theme of this year’s international biodiversity day is ‘biodiversity and climate change’.
i have said before, and wish to underline today, that biodiversity loss is as great a threat to the planet as climate change.
like climate change, biodiversity loss is an economic problem, a social problem and a growing threat to global security.
climate change is a major force behind species loss while at the same time the loss of ecosystems contributes to climate change.
fighting climate change is now at the heart of the european project and is at the top of national political agendas.
unfortunately, the same is not yet true for biodiversity loss.
the un’s 2005 millennium ecosystem assessment has two key messages.
the first is that we are all ultimately dependent on ecosystem services, such as raw materials, medicines and clean water, for our prosperity and wellbeing.
combined with environmental threats such as climate change, increasing population levels and increasing per capita consumption, this means the pressures on species and ecosystems are intensifying.
without urgent action we will soon reach a point of dangerous and irreversible change in global ecosystems, just as without action we will soon reach a point of dangerous climate change.
as with climate change, the window of opportunity to prevent dangerous ecosystem change is rapidly closing.
last year’s biodiversity communication represents a first attempt by the european union to set out a coherent response to the problem of biodiversity loss.
the first is that the communication introduces the concept of ecosystem services into the eu-level debate.
it highlights the extent to which these services are essential to our prosperity and wellbeing and makes the vital link between biodiversity loss and the decline of those services.
the action plan also makes it clear what needs to be done to meet the european union’s commitments to halt the loss of biodiversity in the eu, and to reduce significantly the rate of loss worldwide, by 2010. with the inclusion of a process for regular evaluations against a clear set of targets, both the commission and the member states can be held to account on its delivery.
the report echoes the equally warm reactions of the council, the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee, as well as that of environmental ngos.
i urge you to use this opportunity to send a clear message on the gravity of biodiversity loss and the need for full and vigorous implementation at all levels of the biodiversity communication and its action plan.
i would not like to congratulate the national governments who in 2001 committed themselves to taking some measures that they did not take and so biodiversity continues to decline and we continue to lose organisms.
two are the most important: water pollution and overfishing.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
if we fish too much, we are committing an environmental crime.
first of all, you welcomed the conceptual approach of the communication, which places an emphasis on the link between biodiversity loss and the decline of ecosystem services.
you suggest that the main tenets of ecosystem services should become a fundamental goal of all eu horizontal and sectoral policies and you call on the commission to study and make proposals for practical measures to internalise the cost of biodiversity loss.
we are already working on these matters and i would like to highlight a new initiative of the commission and the german presidency to prepare an economic review of the costs of biodiversity loss similar to the stern review on the economics of climate change.
by raising awareness of the costs of inaction, we will have an opportunity to focus political opinion on the need for unprecedented action to halt the loss of biodiversity.
second, i would highlight your opinions on the theme of biodiversity and climate change.
you stress the importance of an ecosystem approach to climate change adaptation.
also, provision has been made for nature biodiversity funding in life+, community international development cooperation funds and in the seventh framework programme for research.
regarding the target of halting biodiversity loss in the eu by 2010, although time is fast approaching, achieving this target is possible, but will require accelerated implementation at both community and member state levels.
regarding the points on fisheries, which is my own area of responsibility, i cannot agree more with mr gklavakis that we need sustainable fisheries and we need to work in this direction both in community waters and in international oceans and seas.
i would like to say in this regard that the targets and actions for biodiversity in the field of fisheries policy, as laid down in the communication, are fully consistent with the common fisheries policy and most of them are already in our work programme for the coming years.
i can quote a number of examples of the common fisheries policy’s contribution to the protection of biodiversity, for example the recovery plans for several stocks of fish, the catch and fishing effort limitations, legislation to protect cetaceans against by-catch and protecting habitats, such as deep-sea coral reefs, and the mediterranean regulation, which was adopted last year, contains important provisions to reduce the impact of fishing on the seabed.
work is also progressing on the extension of the natura 2000 network to marine areas in coordination with dg environment and on the fight against iuu fisheries.
the agenda includes the report by marie anne isler béguin, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the financial instrument for the environment (life+) (pe-cons 3611/2007 c6 0105/2007 2004/0218 ((cod)) (a6-0180/2007).
madam president, i am pleased to note that the amendments under discussion are supportive of the proposed environmental quality standards as put forward by the commission.
i understand that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety proposes that 11 of these chemicals should become new priority hazard substances in amendments 53-62. i believe that we can already manage these risks and avoid negative impacts on human health and the environment by implementing reach and other community legislation.
i understand that the environment committee proposes, in amendments 65, 68 and 78, the addition to the priority list of 30 new chemicals not previously included in the water framework directive.
an additional factor in the reduced competitiveness of european products and services is the obligation to comply with stricter standards of product safety, protection of public health and the environment, consumers and workers.
the commission will also consider the possibility of imposing a 'green tax' on imports from countries not bound by the kyoto protocol in order to compensate for the competitive disadvantage of european companies and to prevent them from relocating to areas with less stringent environmental rules.
the balance of the world trade system requires converging systems, institutional transparency, converging standards of social and environmental protection.
the title on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy is substantially out of line with its content, since it focuses on harmful substances in surface water and sediments derived solely from herbicides.
other sources of pollution are out of control, such as industrial liquid waste, urban sewage, landfill drainage, thermal pollution from similar sources, pollution of lakes by gaseous pollutants from combustion plants precipitated by weather phenomena, etc.
however, chemical pollution of surface water can cause disturbances in aquatic ecosystems, destroying biodiversity or accumulating pollutants in the food chain from infected fish.
the commission's intention to target and blame agricultural production as the sole responsible for the chemical pollution of surface waters is also clear.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in all its aspects.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of water is not compromised by the lack of adequate protection of the environment, and that the quality of water is not compromised by the lack of adequate protection of the environment.
the eu's interest in halting biodiversity loss is late and hypocritical, because it does not take any substantive measures, nor does it have the necessary resources.
at the same time as it appears to be cutting for biodiversity, it has as its basic hierarchy the promotion of gmos.
it does not mention at all the enormous threat posed by resistant gm plants which reduce plant biodiversity and pose dangers to public health.
climate change, environmental pollution, intensive agricultural production methods and the inadequate management of forest land and water resources are cited as the main causes of biodiversity loss.
but the polluter pays principle also absolves the polluter, legitimises and markets environmental degradation for the benefit of capital profits.
the people should seek to hold the eu and the governments of the member states accountable for their anti-environmental policies, condemn them and overthrow them.
we recognize that the heart of the problem is the palestinian problem, and yet we rest on temporary solutions and do not take the chance to lead to radical solutions that are sustainable.
the european employment strategy, the social protection and social inclusion strategies, the national reform programmes, the revised lisbon strategy for growth and employment with the preservation and improvement of the social acquis, the european sustainable development strategy, constitute the european union's roadmap for achieving the objectives of decent work.
i would like to ask whether it is possible for citizens to lodge complaints so that the commission can take them into account, whether you, as council, could not propose the free distribution of water, even for short distances, and whether you are taking care of the environmental assessment of the waste from this measure.
i also asked about the waste... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has informed us that it will not intervene at this stage.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
secondly, the mandatory inclusion of agri-environmental measures in the operational programmes of producer organisations as a condition for their approval is a positive step.
i would remind you of the groundbreaking climate and energy decisions of last spring's summit, which, as the debate in heiligendamm shows, have become something of a benchmark for the entire international climate change debate.
and we will do this through increased sectoral cooperation, for example in the energy sector, in the transport sector, through participation in the internal market, adoption of eu law and intensive exchanges in education and culture.
this concerns the european union's external relations, justice and home affairs, energy policy and the social dimension.
i see a predominant willingness to add to the areas of climate protection and energy solidarity, both of which the european council has also said should be given special importance.
thirdly, i would like to say a few words about climate change.
specific legislative proposals will be adopted by the commission in the autumn and we intend to build on the european union’s credibility and leadership in fighting climate change.
we need the capacity to act in a changed environment in the europe of a globalised world.
europe’s citizens welcome the eu’s commitment to tackling today’s key policy challenges: climate change, migration, energy – the areas that mr steinmeier has already mentioned.
it is also not just the fact that russia has large reserves of energy resources.
it is a common need to work towards establishing a new climate of mutual trust.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states, and that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states.
i would also add that the union should take the initiative to open negotiations with a view to integrating trade and investment in the energy sector more fully into the multilateral trading system.
the agreement between russia, greece and bulgaria on the construction of the burgas-alexandroupoli oil pipeline is a strategic contribution to european energy infrastructure.
it will enable them to carry out their educational plans and to respond to their family life, whether it be the rearing of children or the support of the elderly in the family environment, because we know that in a few decades two thirds of europeans will be elderly.
in addition, and in view of the high debt burden and the expected increase as a result of ageing, the greek authorities are recommended to prepare as soon as possible future projections of such ageing-related expenditure and to improve the long-term sustainability of public accounts by putting in place the necessary means to achieve the medium-term objective.
in a statement after 5 june you expressed the commission's concern about the high deficit in the greek economy's balance of trade and recommended strict measures to ensure that the deficit and debt reduction is sustainable and continuous.
governance does not only affect the environment, it affects all policies equally.
but we must recognize that citizens and non-governmental organisations place a special emphasis on the quality of their environment and that civil society wants to be informed and involved in environmental matters.
in this respect, the 1998 aarhus convention is of particular importance, as it provides for access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters.
a large part of the environmental measures is based on the sixth community environment action programme.
all the commission's proposals fully reflect the commitments entered into by the community in international agreements, including those relating to trade policy and the environment.
finally, the commission is actively involved in the debate on improving international environmental management.
the european union has put forward a concrete proposal to create a united nations environmental organization on the basis of a united nations environment programme.
the environmental acquis comprises some 400 secondary legislation and international conventions.
two years ago i proposed in this very room the need for an international environmental organization.
the environment, as we know, as a public good knows no borders.
what is the commission's position on the establishment of an international environmental court?
in any case, as far as transport between member states is concerned, it is particularly useful that, through this debate, we should reaffirm our intention and our commitment on the part of the european institutions to carry out our duties with the utmost energy and to ask the member states' leaders to do the same with theirs.
i should like to thank the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their efforts so far.
initially seen as an acute local problem, mercury pollution is now also understood to be global, diffuse and chronic.
against this background, the commission developed a comprehensive community strategy concerning mercury, which was adopted in january 2005. its key aim is to reduce mercury levels in the environment and human exposure through a number of actions that address all aspects of the mercury lifecycle.
the basic aim of the proposed regulation is to stop these exports and to ensure that mercury no longer used in the chlor-alkali industry is safely stored and cannot re-enter the environment.
storage operations will fall under the legal framework of the waste landfill directive, with additional safety requirements reflecting the specific properties of metallic mercury.
the commission intends to acknowledge this commitment, in line with the principles and procedures set out in the communication on the environmental agreements adopted in 2002. it is not the purpose of the proposal to implement the whole of the mercury strategy: its scope is deliberately more concise.
in the environment, mercury can be converted to methylmercury and accumulate in the food chain, especially in an aquatic environment.
i am particularly pleased that both the environment committee and the legal affairs committee have rejected the double legal basis and have chosen article 175 as the sole basis, as the aim of the regulation is to protect the environment and public health.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in other words, unemployment is being used as a means of blackmailing workers into accepting that their area will be turned into a dumping ground for the toxic mercury waste of the whole eu, with incalculable risks to the health of the inhabitants and the environment.
as regards the areas of financing, we believe that the economic aspect of the partnership should be directed towards social cohesion and sustainable economic development, but we must also not forget that achieving our objectives requires a comprehensive monitoring and strengthening of actions in all areas.
first, the offending minor is in no way a patient whose behaviour is due to physical, mental or psychological abnormalities and second, in analysing the behaviour of minors - offending or not - we must look at the environment in which the minor's personality develops.
in the family, in the school, in the friendship, in the social environment.
the council has also decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
first of all, however, i would like to point out that a logical prerequisite for using the digital environment is the development and dissemination of computer literacy to all european citizens, as well as cheap internet access in all countries without exception.
before, during and after the transaction, then we will be able to guarantee a safe environment, both for transactions and for the privacy of citizens.
and as long as there are regions or even countries where access itself and fast and cheap internet access are still unknown words, then i am very afraid that we will identify the digital divide and approach the digital environment theoretically.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i believe that the environment should have a horizontal dimension.
we must ensure that the horizontal logic of environmental policy is incorporated into the reform treaty, because environmental policy is nothing more than the sum of individual policies.
i also believe that we must make the european union's environmental diplomacy more coherent externally and link environmental diplomacy with the common foreign policy, with international trade, with european development policy, if we are to have an impact on a global scale, because the environment knows no borders, it is a public good and as such we must protect it globally through international associations.
i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
unfortunately, in recent years the destruction of the environment has taken on nightmarish proportions.
my request: i would like to make a strong appeal to you to launch a global campaign of information, at the initiative of the european union, on the major problems facing the planet, which include, in addition to the destruction of forests worldwide, pollution and overfishing of the seas, soil pollution and air pollution.
all these factors are causing ecological imbalance in nature and a decline in biodiversity.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency and the establishment of a european environment agency.
particular attention is also paid to the impact of environmental factors on health, and data collection and the development of strategies for patient mobility are of particular importance.
i think it is important that the issue of ensuring an efficient and sustainable universal service should remain at the heart of our work, and i support the amendment tabled by mrs barsi-pataky and other colleagues, including myself, to ensure that the preparations for the implementation of free competition remain sound, so that the current directive is implemented until liberalisation and that incoming, outgoing and advertising mail is secured.
for the first time, public money, through public procurement, will be used to increase energy efficiency, which is rightly considered a key pillar of a sustainable energy policy.
strikes in critical sectors - energy, telecommunications, etc.
the promotion of competitiveness for economic growth and the safeguarding of workers' safety must be commonly agreed objectives from the planning to the implementation level, taking care of the necessary flexible market and of enhancing safety, which is a double challenge, so that we can speed up, as you suggest, commissioner, by playing a leading role in the open international competitive environment, without betraying values and prevailing social standards.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the astronomical profits of shipowners and shipping monopolies on the one hand, and the intensification of work to the limit and the mass replacement of seafarers by member states with cheaper labour, with starvation wages of no more than 515 dollars a month, and the major maritime crimes, such as the erika, prestige, sea diamond and other ships, which have caused enormous environmental damage and have shocked international public opinion, are clear examples of the european union's anti-people maritime policy.
it will be recalled that the council of ministers adopted the proposed regulation concerning management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea in late 2006. that regulation consequently entered into force in january 2007. the commission believes that the regulation represents a fair and vigorous response to the problems raised by the honourable member as far as both demersal and small pelagic species are concerned.
in addition to community measures that may be further complemented in the future, it is also fundamental to promote fisheries management measures in the framework of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), so that mediterranean countries that are not members of the european union can also contribute to the sustainability of marine living resources.
i hope that within the timeframes set in the regulation, the member states will have the necessary measures in place so that we will be able to have a much more sustainable fishery in the mediterranean, especially with regard to coastal fisheries.
the closure of these units should not cause major energy supply concerns.
the community assistance for decommissioning, based on the treaty of accession, also covers measures consequential to the closure of the reactors in the field of replacement capacity, energy efficiency and supply actions.
on the seismic issue, pursuant to article 37 of euratom, bulgaria is required to provide the commission with general data relating to the plan for the disposal of radioactive waste.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
we are waiting for these figures, not whether each member state is free to have nuclear energy or not.
as far as china is concerned, the eu side has as its objective in the prospective partnership and cooperation agreement to lay the foundation for enhanced cooperation, including enforcement and, where possible, the upgrading of environmental – including climate change mitigation – social, labour and safety standards, so we are on the same wavelength on that.
so let me repeat: openness to china is in europe’s interests, but it is sustainable only if we can show that eu products and services are just as welcome in china as chinese goods are in europe.
at that meeting, the chinese leadership recognised for the first time that the current trend of the trade imbalance between china and the eu is simply not sustainable.
as i have already said, one of our objectives in the pca is to lay the foundation for enhanced cooperation on matters to do with environment, social, labour and safety standards.
on the trade side, the agreement will cover important issues for both sides such as ipr, investment, non-tariff trade barriers, capital movements, sustainable trade, and natural resources and competition.
what we must oppose is the competitive advantage that china has as a result of prohibitive import barriers, unfair competition, economic, ecological and social dumping.
a renewed vitality of french growth and the guarantee of the sustainability of french public finances in the longer term.
the euro was created on the basis of a philosophy that is shared the world over: that price stability, and credibility in ensuring price stability, are prerequisites for sustainable growth and job creation.
as regards the obsession we might have with price stability, i have already said that price stability is a prerequisite for sustainable growth and sustainable job creation.
those who have rushed to recognise the former yugoslav republic of macedonia under its constitutional name in violation of the un and eu institutional framework are doing a disservice to the effort to find an honest compromise solution for the international name (i stress this) and are fuelling the intolerance and nationalist climate in the political leadership of our neighbouring country.
instead of theoretically discussing climate change, let us do something as the european union to protect our forest wealth.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
we have seen a human tragedy and an ecological disaster.
in addition to the terrible damage to the environment in greece, there is the immediate risk of torrential rains flowing into the rivers and damaging this fragile ecosystem and soil erosion leading to landslides and water pollution.
these aspects have been discussed in detail by the college and the commission is committed to taking all possible measures to assist the greek government in dealing with the social, environmental and economic consequences of these fires.
climate change can lead to drier winters and hotter summers, creating an ideal environment for fire.
the project aims to meet the immediate humanitarian and economic needs of the victims quickly and effectively and to repair the damage to the natural environment as quickly as possible.
about three million acres of forest have been burned, and we are facing a huge ecological and economic disaster.
and another thing: we need - and i ask this on behalf of my political group - more europe to protect forests and the environment.
it is not enough to talk theoretically about the danger of climate change.
we must do more about this as the european union, which means common policies, more money from the common funds and tighter control of member states when they violate european environmental legislation.
but to do this, it is necessary: - first, the burned areas should be transformed into a global model of sustainable and dynamic development, there should be no environmental migrant; - second, massive reforestation; - third, the abandonment of any discussion on the de-classification of forests which are the bread and butter of all kinds of arsonists; - fourthly, the draconian prohibition of illegal building in the burned areas; - fifthly, the creation, finally in greece, of an independent ministry of the environment.
we would like to point out the following: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the fires, which have burned 75 of our fellow men and over 2.5 million acres of forest and caused enormous damage to thousands of ordinary households, constitute an unprecedented and heinous political, economic and ecological crime against the people of our country.
it is destroying the environment, leading to painful climate changes with incalculable consequences for humanity.
as long as this anti-people policy, motivated by the increase of capital profits, continues, the burning of forests and land will continue, as will the burning of workers' and people's rights to employment, education, health and culture, sport and the environment.
the immediate implementation of flood control and other key prevention and infrastructure projects to prevent new flood tragedies, as well as immediate measures to protect the environment and historic sites, the establishment of a forestry register, the establishment of a single forest monitoring and protection body and the abolition of deforestation laws are of great importance.
large areas of beautiful forests were burned, causing an unprecedented environmental disaster.
some of the actions that need to be taken immediately - and i emphasize the word immediately - are the following: - flexible use of the european solidarity fund; - activation of article 100 (2) of the treaty, which provides for additional community financing in the event of natural disasters; - involvement of the commission and the european environment agency in the preparation of a strategic plan for the reconstruction of fire-affected areas; - adjustment of the programmes under the third and fourth community support frameworks to compensate for the losses; - derogation from community rules on agricultural and livestock quotas, state aid and tax exemptions.
mr president, this is an unprecedented disaster, with human losses, economic and ecological destruction.
it's the climate change.
we can achieve this by means of european reflexes: mobilizing community resources without bureaucratic delays, through the adoption and implementation of strict environmental legislation to protect forests and ecosystems, through the establishment of an autonomous european rapid reaction team, through the adoption of a european strategy to deal with the effects of climate change.
the proposed draft regulations aim to create a secure environment and to remove existing blockages from the system.
finally, while respecting the principle of proportionality and equivalence with regard to beef producers, we should all agree to the principle of retroactivity of the proposed measures so as not to create an unfair climate between producers, industries and regions already part of the new system.
it is a political message and not so much a financial one; - thirdly, the compensation paid to companies for the production of bioethanol should be increased from 35% to 100%, considering that a major incentive should be given to the sector's contribution to renewable energy sources ·fourth, and particularly important for the regions, the maintenance of the diversification aid in the regions where the mills were closed at eur 109,5 per tonne of sugar refined until the period 2009-2010. the commission is also aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the community's financing.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to stress that the commission is not prepared to accept it.
it is particularly important for countries like mine to be sure that this position is not forgotten when we discuss the future of the sugar cmo for the period after 2010; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
the commission's proposal to set a target of 20% of total energy production from renewable sources, to be achieved by each member state and included in national action plans, would be acceptable if it aimed at addressing the needs of the people, reducing energy dependence, saving energy, protecting the environment, safeguarding the energy product as a social good and not as a commodity.
although renewable energy is inexhaustible in nature and its use helps to reduce pollution, it is also harmful to the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the pollution caused by the use of fossil fuels.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not a factor in the decision to liberalize the energy sector and to ensure that the impact on the public interest is not disguised.
energy is treated as a commodity and not as a social good.
as far as biofuels are concerned, it is a challenge to use food products for energy and not for feeding the hungry when millions of people are starving to death.
i read it: "in the longer term, what added value could be provided by targeted european support for financing clean and energy-efficient urban transport?"
this was a very important contribution, which stressed the importance of promoting the training of young, talented sportsmen and sportswomen in proper conditions, which is crucial for the sustainable development of sport at all levels.
the commission is currently finalising the directive on the promotion of renewable energy, and i am targeting adoption of this directive by the end of this year.
and one of the very important issues in this directive will be addressing sustainability of biofuels, the principles described and ways of guaranteeing that biofuels do not have a negative influence on the environment.
concerning the specific question on non-governmental organisations, monasteries or environmental bodies, the commission does not have the possibility to directly support these for the purpose of environmental restoration activities.
looking at thematically orientated research, we can clearly see the need to better support research areas such as energy and climate change.
mountain, island and very remote regions receive support from the structural funds and are also supported through the relevant thematic priorities of the 7th fp specific programme 'cooperation', in particular with regard to improving their transport, information, communications and energy supply situation.
in addition, the commission is currently preparing its proposal for a strategic action plan for set energy technologies based on a wide public consultation, which it intends to present before the end of 2007. in the same vein, i would also like to highlight the new approach to industrial policy in the context of sustainable development with a focus on climate change, in which innovation and the role of small and mediumsized enterprises in the european economy are key aspects.
the informal council to which i refer also dealt with the policy of small and mediumsized enterprises with particular emphasis on innovation and financing, internationalisation and energy efficiency.
as you know, mr president, in march the council adopted a programme which is regarded as a leading programme in the world, both in energy matters and in climate change matters.
and we have, the european union has, an almost historic responsibility, so to speak, as we leave for the bali conference which will set, we hope, the new post-kyoto 2012 co2 emissions targets.
in the specific energy field, the question of energy saving is on the agenda, both at the level of the european union and at the level of the member states themselves.
but here too the question of investment in new technologies dedicated to the energy question was raised, as well as investment in science having to do with alternative energies.
we hope that we can do what we have to do quickly and well, and we must of course concentrate now on the ambitious package, both on energy and on climate change, on which we have agreed.
and, yes, where we can use them as a laboratory, for example, for the development of renewable energies, we should certainly try and promote and encourage that at the same time, seeing to it that their vulnerabilities are not prejudiced in any way.
concerning the question put by mr casaca concerning the ecosystem approach, i would like first of all to say that, yes, we in the directorate-general for fisheries and maritime affairs had commissioned a study by experts.
we are still, in 2007, in the initial phases of real implementation of the 2002 reforms by moving in the direction of multiannual management and recovery plans, by moving in the direction of more ecosystem based management of fisheries.
and we have to see to it that we redress the situation and bring about a system of sustainable fisheries, measures and initiatives again which i hope will have the full backing of parliament: like a discards policy; measures and initiatives with regard to multiannual management of fisheries; management of fisheries by having more closed areas, closed seasons – these are all measures which go very much in the direction of the ecosystem approach to fisheries and the maximum sustainable yield.
we have had the first example of a management plan on the basis of maximum sustainable yields in the plaice and sole management plan which was adopted in council only last june.
so, we hope to continue moving in that direction in order to regain proper management of fisheries on the basis of the ecosystem approach.
where member states are willing to take steps in the direction, for example, of joint activities with regard to national coastguard services, concerning questions on the environment, questions with regard to fisheries, questions with regard to illegal immigration, questions concerning drug trafficking and trafficking of human beings, then in those instances i think that there is a lot of scope for having a system of national coastguards coordinated in a more effective and efficient way by, for example, sharing the assets that different member states enjoy, by exchanging data and by creating necessary tools, including for example sea mapping, which could be an asset for coastguard and other activities.
therefore, if there are particular ecological problems in the baltic sea that need to be addressed and that can be addressed in some way or other, then we should do our utmost in order to do so.
for example, with regard to fisheries, we are taking measures in order to try to attain, against various odds, sustainable fisheries in the baltic.
in all of this, serious problems remain with regard to the protection of personal data, but also with regard to the protection of the environment.
this agreement allows for a wider choice of services, reduced prices, creates jobs and already allows us to coordinate measures that may affect passengers safety and security problems and, eventually, one stop security and, of course, in environmental matters.
i would also like to say a word, if you will, about two problems, do we not, which should be able to find gradual improvements and probably solutions: the problem of safety and the problem of the environment.
in this respect, on the environmental problem, we obviously want an integrated and comprehensive approach to the challenge of climate change and, as you know, i said it earlier and i will say it again, we all defended the emissions trading system in montreal at the international civil aviation organisation, which is a market-based system that seems to be the most effective solution.
the atlantic interoperability initiative to reduce emissions is interesting.
this time it is not about human rights or environmental pollution, but about the decision of the organizing committee and the relevant authorities of the people's republic of china to ban all kinds and forms of religious prayer by the participants in the olympic games.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal we are about to vote on aims to achieve a high level of protection of human health and the environment by establishing community standards for the sustainable use of pesticides and rules for their placing on the european market.
i believe that by supporting the environment committee's proposal for a 20% reduction in the use of pesticides at european level, we are sending a strong message that we must strengthen controls on the rational use of pesticides and, above all, promote research into safer alternative methods of plant protection.
at the same time, the proposal to abolish the system of zones and compulsory mutual authorization is a balanced position which, taking into account the concerns of farmers and industry, seeks to give the possibility to as many member states as they wish to apply higher levels of environmental protection, in accordance with their local conditions.
in particular, it encourages increased efforts concerning the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), the home state taxation pilot scheme proposal, the strategy ensuring better coordination of member states’ tax systems particularly in the field of exit taxation and cross-border loss relief, the work undertaken by the joint transfer pricing forum, the strategy to combat tax fraud, the vat package, the reduced vat rates on labour intensive services and environmental taxation.
community legislation on excise duties in general has an important role to play in order to reduce distortion in the internal market, to protect public health and to gear consumption patterns towards more environmentally sustainable behaviour.
thirdly, we remain committed to a system of minimum rates in excise duties in order to reduce distortion and to promote fair competition in the internal market to contribute to the protection of public health and to the environment.
environmental protection legislation is a compromise between the need to protect the environment and the demand of big business to maximize their profits at all costs, making the 'competitiveness' of eu multinationals a top priority over all others.
however, the anti-environmental action of multinationals is allowed, with some fines, which are a small part of the additional profits they derive from the destruction of the environment, legitimizing the "who has money can destroy".
climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time; it hardly needs restating here.
that is why the commission wants the doha round to deliver liberalisation of environmental goods and services and also sees scope for the new generation of free trade agreements to help facilitate sustainable trade.
the commission is aiming to negotiate an ambitious and comprehensive post-2012 climate framework.
that also means that the carbon leakage – the displacement of pollution from one place to another – that might otherwise flow from a failure to reach agreement will be avoided.
a well-designed trade policy can help the world deal with climate change by generating the wealth needed to pay for the mitigation and adaptation measures required.
investment in trade, in both low-carbon goods and services, can carry skills and climate-friendly technology throughout the global economy, helping to address climate change at global level and in the most cost-efficient manner.
throwing that away would be doing a disservice to climate change policy.
it should not be forgotten that our approach to climate change policy has helped put european industry at the forefront when it comes to environmental low-carbon technology.
the stern report made clear that combating climate change makes economic sense, in addition to the numerous societal benefits, because the costs involved are lower than the costs of inaction.
trade policy can support climate change objectives by minimising those costs and generating part of the finance required and by fostering regulatory frameworks that support investment and trade in low-carbon goods, services and technology.
so we have today the growing global demand for food and feed, together with the use of cereals and oilseeds in the production of biofuels, which is not done for environmental reasons but is part of the profitable plans of the multinational oil companies.
will the two sides remain in a climate of mistrust and tacit diplomacy or will they pursue joint action plans?
this makes a lot of sense, because we see that it will be much easier to rehabilitate him when he gets out of prison, because when he is transferred to the member state of his nationality he will have much easier access to the language, he will have much easier access to his friends, his relatives and he will be in a familiar environment.
we should develop this with member states by the end of next year, 2008. we are also considering introducing the award of a european label to schools which are actively involved in supporting and promoting physical activities in a school environment.
in the mediterranean countries and greece in particular, the problems are more acute, because of the arid-temperate climate, the relief of the land, the strong winds, etc., which contribute to desertification and soil erosion.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
if the border issue and the ecological and fisheries zone were referred to, which relate especially to the bilateral relations between croatia and slovenia, that is a bilateral issue and we encourage both croatia and slovenia to solve these longstanding problems.
nevertheless, in december 2006, the commission – myself, actually – for the first time obtained an interim order from the european court of justice in the environment domain, suspending illegal hunting rules in italy before the main legal action was heard.
each case needs to be evaluated on its own merits, even if recent initiatives from the commission, supported by the european parliament, such as those relating to illegal hunting in italy, which i have previously referred to, or to the rospuda valley, illustrate the interest of using this procedure in order to protect the environment.
fifthly, to draw up a technical protocol for joint action by the european union in the event of major earthquake disasters, with particular emphasis on critical transport, energy, telecommunications and health infrastructures.
the arguments put forward by the commission and the council on the protection of the environment are also not convincing.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in this internal dialogue, as in any opening up of the european union to the rest of the world through policies on economic, social, environmental, security, sustainable development and migration, the european commission must highlight and safeguard the cultural 'culture' of the european union.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the strong european regulatory framework for environmental protection, consumer health and workers' health is an important indication of the union's political and institutional maturity.
we must also recognize that the european union has proven itself in protecting the environment, has shown itself in leadership and in being able to show the way, to show the future, as no other regional bloc in the world has done, and we will demonstrate this very clearly from the negotiations which will begin in bali next december.
the point is to invite others, who share with us this path of globalization, these difficulties and these challenges of globalization, to share with us values and principles of economic, social and environmental, is of course to make very clear that globalization will only be successful for the benefit of all if, indeed, we can wake up in a world, a social world, an economic world, an environmental world that is truly regulated for and in the service of all.
we will have to put more emphasis on the link between competitiveness, energy and the environment.
or a high level of employment in the steel industry in liège - a very recent example - or a high level of environmental standards in the european emissions trading system.
and what is not possible is to approach the developing regions with the demand for high environmental and social standards, but not to be prepared to change our own policies.
what i hear in europe today is that china, india, they need to change their environmental and social standards.
that is true, but the chinese and the indians feel that this is pure european protectionism, because we have built our prosperity on using lower social standards and lower environmental standards, and now we tell the others that we want to keep what we have, but you cannot have it.
that it's possible to turn an ecological and social challenge into an economic opportunity.
that is why we have an ecological industrial policy.
global warming must be addressed immediately and decisively.
but this requires a broader agreement with concrete commitments to reduce emissions, not just wishful thinking; commitments to address emissions from international aviation and maritime transport, to capture greenhouse gases through sustainable forest management, to change production and consumption patterns, and to land use.
but to achieve this, the commission must recall the objectives it has forgotten about in the bold promotion of renewable energy sources, it must push for more bold objectives and show a stronger political will.
i would like to begin by congratulating you, commissioner, on your efforts on this important international issue of climate change.
mr president, the fight against climate change must be the catalyst for the creation of a new development model that will redefine existing policies towards environmental protection, combining economic activity with respect for natural resources and social welfare.
in bali, an agreement should be sought that takes an environmental perspective, while also exploiting opportunities for technological innovation, economic development and job creation.
the transition, for example, to a global low-carbon economy through the interconnection of carbon markets and emissions trading systems is on the right track.
the commission’s 2005 online music recommendation aims to allow the music market in europe to develop in the digital environment.
we intend to step up support for the protection of human rights and the creation and development of an independent judiciary, thus making a sustainable contribution to the consolidation of the rule of law and respect for international human rights standards in central asia.
finally, let me stress that the promotion of sustainability in tourism is a central aspect of our policy.
i am convinced that if we integrate sustainability into all areas of tourism, we will protect the very competitive advantages that make europe the most attractive destination in the world today.
the commission presented a new 'agenda for a sustainable and competitive european tourism' last month.
although it is not within the competence of the european union, there are a number of measures and actions which can contribute to the upward trend of the sector and its sustainable development.
we want a sustainable sector that develops in accordance with the principles of sustainability, offers a quality tourist product and service and excludes no one.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, and the introduction of new environmental laws.
the european union is seeking to facilitate trade by ensuring its sustainability while contributing to other policies, such as climate change.
we welcome the fact that the report recognises the prospect of negotiations on environmental goods and services.
we believe that trade is an important contribution to climate change objectives.
we welcome the recognition of the need for the secretariats of environmental agreements to be granted observer status in the world trade organisation, which we have also sought for the current round of trade negotiations.
we also welcome the recognition of the potential of our new free trade agreements to contribute to climate change issues through specific provisions.
increased trade flows, and climate change policies are obvious.
environmental policies provide a strong incentive for technological innovation and promote economic efficiency.
the scientific and economic evidence clearly demonstrates that the benefits of mitigating climate change outweigh the costs of mitigation policies.
further action to address climate change can result in significant competitive advantages for producers in countries with carbon constraints, as it will lead, along with other policies, to a reduction in the consumption of valuable resources and to environmentally friendly technological innovation for which market access opportunities are increasing.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
we must continue to look for more opportunities to enhance the positive contribution of trade policy to tackling climate change.
i would point out that the report puts the issues of export credits, the phasing out of climate-damaging trade subsidies, and the promotion and expansion of market access for foreign direct investment in this context.
we must also continue our efforts on sustainability criteria in relation to forest products, deforestation and illegal logging.
in conclusion, let me thank you once again for this valuable contribution to the climate change debate at a very important time, as we are only a few days away from the opening of the bali climate change conference, which we hope will provide the impetus for negotiations on an international agreement after 2012.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the european union must, and has largely succeeded, be at the forefront of environmental policies.
the adaptation of all its sectoral strategies to sustainable development standards is, moreover, a primary regulatory objective.
however, the rapidly increasing volume of cross-border trade flows also poses a challenge for climate policy.
the limits of the mutually supportive or conflicting relationship between the world trade system and climate change policies are the subject of the report under discussion.
the report unfortunately shows a mismatch between the commercial and the environmental components.
the rapid growth of international trade should be seen solely as a factor of environmental burden.
moreover, it is not enough to adopt climate policies alone, but an overall, coherent plan is needed in which environmental priorities are reflected in transport policy, trade, industrial, energy and rural policy.
in any case, the union's efforts alone to tackle climate change are not enough.
the union's global leadership in setting environmental and social protection standards should be continued and promoted in its trade with third countries.
this development, while encouraging the economic development of countries, has a significant impact on climate change.
what we need to do is decide how trade policy can make a positive contribution to solving the climate change problem.
the target we have set for a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by the year 2020 is quite ambitious.
more support and effort is needed to move towards more environmentally friendly modes of transport, to promote a more climate-friendly industry, to develop new technologies and create economic incentives for non-climate-friendly activities, to ensure effective cooperation between the united nations, the world trade organisation and the european union, and to ensure continuous consultation and involvement of civil society and environmental ngos.
mr president, the ppe-de group has decided to vote in favour of the lipietz report on trade and climate change at this mini-plenary session.
however, we have decided to vote against some of the amendments to paragraphs, because we believe that global warming must be addressed through sustainable measures which do not have an adverse effect on economic growth or the long-term prospects of europe’s social model.
as a political group, we are very sensitive to the issue of climate change.
the european union has taken the lead in proposing far-reaching solutions on how to tackle climate change.
we believe that global trade has been beneficial to the world economy, but at the same time we acknowledge that more needs to be done, especially in the transport sector, to reduce harmful emissions.
the resolution is dressed up in costless pro-environmental colours and general slogans to obscure the reactionary content of the imperialist associations and organisations.
it calls for the trading of greenhouse gases for transport, which has failed to reduce co2 emissions but has proved to be a profitable trading mechanism for capital.
it reserved to the eib the role of environmental watchdog acting on advice from the oecd and the g8 and asked that future proposals be those dictated by the wto.
the bottom line is that natural resources continue to be seized by multinationals, forests continue to be deforested, freshwater resources continue to be restricted and degraded, desertification continues, mutants spread, toxics pollute, war conflicts and imperialist interventions perpetuate, greenhouse gases accumulate, billions of people suffer from the exploitation and profiteering of capital, and the resolution offers cover and help.
the directive seeks to protect the marine environment and must do so.
the committee on the environment should give greater emphasis to fisheries and the problems it has with marine pollution.
in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the marine strategy directive, if properly implemented, will contribute to a viable and sustainable fisheries and contribute to a healthy sea, so that we have clean seas that give beauty.
mr president, growth within the framework of the lisbon strategy, with the objective of increasing competitiveness, that is, the profitability of the business monopolies in the european union, not only intensifies the exploitation of the working class, of workers in general, but also dramatically aggravates environmental problems and systematically destroys marine ecosystems and marine biodiversity, constantly degrades the quality of marine waters.
in addition to the damage caused to seawater by pollution from ships, industrial pollution is responsible for a huge share of the pollution of seawater.
it causes an unprecedented level of pollution in the aquatic environment, which is then transferred to marine waters.
the marine environment and the functioning of ecosystems are also seriously affected by pollution from the ever-growing fish farms.
the intrusion of monopolies into a number of previously public functions, the privatisation of public utilities and public infrastructure, and the commercialisation of public social goods such as marine water, are dramatically exacerbating the problems of the marine environment.
marine pollution is no longer caused solely by the discharge of waste and sewage from these plants into the sea, but also by the construction of industrial plants that serve their business activities, such as the installation of desalination plants for the irrigation of golf courses and their maintenance in general.
in conclusion, mr president, i would point out that the common position of the council and the commission's report do not really provide the solution needed to solve, or even to prevent, serious problems relating to the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every year 370,000 people in europe die prematurely from diseases linked to air pollution.
the united states environmental protection agency sets stricter limits than the european union does.
the european parliament report guarantees aid for winegrowers who apply measures to improve supply, improve quality and protect the environment.
the commission is proposing a rationalised grubbing-up scheme which does not waste valuable community funds on reducing the potential of european wine, and the aid to winegrowers is set at the regional average without being limited to the ceiling of eur 350 per hectare.
the committee on agriculture has provided, among other things, for the indication of the carbon dioxide content in amendment no 166, information relating to public health issues in amendment no 157 and information on the production of wine from hybrid or mutant vines in the baringdorf amendment.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the protection of the environment, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the consequences will be dramatic: unemployment will increase and environmental problems will increase.
finally, i would add that the grubbing-up of vineyards may be considered a way of restricting community production, but we must take into account small island regions, where the member state must be able to restrict grubbing-up for social, economic and, above all, environmental reasons.
this report is very important because it seeks to lay the right foundations for the marketing of fruit trees, so that they are certified and plant health-protected, with the aim of protecting the farmer, the consumer and the environment.
it is vital that the farmer can obtain healthy propagating material, both to prevent the spread of new diseases and to ensure his income, but also to reduce the use of pesticides, which we all know are a burden on the environment.
we must be careful, because uncontrolled trade in plant products carries the risk of spreading diseases with devastating consequences for the environment and the economy.
however, although we agree with most of the amendments in mr glavachis' report, we have reservations and disagree with all the amendments which accept mutated reproductive material even as a subject, because it involves risks to human health and the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks arising from exposure to ionising radiation.
overall, the multiple compliance, without substantially addressing the environment, public health and animal health for which it was supposedly established, imposed significant amounts of burden on farmers.
in our country the costs of complying with the rules on animal husbandry are unbearable for sheep and goat farmers with negligible effects on the environment, public health and animal health, which can however be effectively tackled if the production methods are compatible with the physiology of animals and plants.
if, for example, gmos, meat meal, mineral oils, hormones are banned and systematic checks are made for the residues of agricultural drugs in agricultural products, then the effects on public health and the environment will actually be much better.
concerning relations with croatia, that country is part of the accession negotiations and is most advanced in terms of accepting the community acquis, at the same time participating in all the activities of the energy community.
because of its more advanced stage in respect of the acquis, croatia is also more integrated into the eu energy market and is leading a couple of projects.
macedonia is part of the energy community and is also advancing with implementation of the acquis.
i know there are always certain difficulties with payments and power supplies, but until now we have managed to resolve these issues and people have received the energy supplies they need.
the commission has no competence over the siting of power lines, which is decided exclusively by the member states authorities under the respective eu environmental law.
the construction of overhead electrical power lines with a voltage of 220 kw or more and a length of more than 15 km has to undergo an environmental impact assessment.
one needs to be aware that a natura 2000 site may be involved or that there may be some impact on the environment.
there is no solution that makes zero impact on the environment.
funding from the commission to support the operation of european environmental ngos is provided through a programme that has existed since 1997. the legal basis for the current programme is the life+ regulation.
the objective is to strengthen the participation of european ngos in the development and implementation of eu environmental policy.
lists of operations and amounts are published on the dg environment website.
but only one of the organisations consistently funded, the mediterranean information office for environment, culture and sustainable development, is based in greece.
many of them have greek member organisations, for example, the european environmental bureau, europarc and international friends of nature.
applications are assessed against award criteria and the ngos that have the best potential to contribute to development and implementation of the eu environmental policy priorities are selected.
ensuring that member states correctly apply eu waste legislation and preventing illegal waste activities are among the commission’s top priorities.
the proposed environmental crime directive will ensure that serious environmental offences are subject to effective criminal sanctions throughout the european union.
all serious waste-related crimes, including the illegal treatment, transport, export and import of waste, are covered by the proposed directive.
the environmental crime initiative is, however, far from being the only action taken by the commission in order to prevent waste crime.
the commission is taking a number of specific actions in areas where waste crime is a serious problem for member states.
this concerns, in particular, illegal landfills and illegal waste shipments, which are covered by important eu legislation.
the commission takes early action in order to prevent negative environmental and health impacts as a result of waste activities.
awareness events concerning landfills and waste shipments are organised where the risk is high.
multilateral meetings are also regularly held with national authorities and stakeholders to tackle bad implementation of eu waste legislation.
guidelines are continuously developed regarding key eu waste legislation, such as on waste shipments and targeting particular problematic waste schemes, for example, waste electrical and electronic equipment and light vehicles.
the commission closely cooperates with the impel network regarding, for example, joint enforcement actions on waste shipments and inspections and monitoring of landfills.
systematic failures by member states to respect eu waste legislation are continuously met by legal action from the commission, including the powerful threat of fines under the ec treaty.
the commission is also encouraging member states to make use of funding opportunities at eu level and to ensure that the waste programme expenditure under the various instruments contributes to the improved implementation of waste legislation.
the eu waste shipment regulation contains the basis for cooperation between member states to prevent illegal waste shipment.
we are currently examining the need for further actions in order to strengthen the enforcement of eu waste legislation, including legally binding rules for inspections of waste shipments.
the issue is that legislation is not implemented vigorously enough and inspections are not particularly frequent, and that requires that the commission should take additional steps to guide the member states to take stronger action on waste crimes.
we have legislation on waste shipment, so this means there is common ground, and there is additional cooperation on penal matters, because the issue goes beyond waste issues.
there have been developments, and current legislative processes allow companies that illegally ship waste to be penalised.
the verification of compliance with the requirements of directive 91/271/eec on urban waste-water treatment is a complex task as it implies the evaluation of data concerning thousands of agglomerations all over the european union.
according to the information available, the project is planned to be operational by the end of 2009. as regards agglomerations of more than 15 000 inhabitants or their equivalent, out of the 75 agglomerations, 52 meet the standards laid down by the directive as regards collection systems for urban waste water and secondary treatment.
very often, such projects are combined projects which, apart from waste-water- and rainwater-related infrastructure, may also include water supply infrastructure.
the erdf operational programme ‘environment’ co-finances nine waste water projects.
these projects relate to the construction and/or modernisation of waste-water treatment plants and sewage networks.
as regards asserting regional operational programmes of the erdf, the question of absorption rates for the waste-water sector should be addressed to the competent regional authorities.
contrary to the case of the operational programme ‘environment’, a member state is not required to inform the commission of the progress of each individual project.
in your reply, madam president, commissioner, you mentioned that dozens of major cities in greece are still without adequate waste water treatment because of the incomplete construction of biological treatment plants, although the vast majority of these have been part-financed by community funds.
however, in some cases i mentioned, we can inform you about progress on the operational programme ‘environment’, but we cannot report on each project, because this information is available to each member state.
i am told that we must act, that we must commit ourselves to more sustainable and environmentally friendly transport, that we must defend the railways, that we must defend the rivers, that we must defend the sea!
addressing maritime environment problems at regional level is one of the cornerstones of the european union’s marine strategy and the proposed marine strategy directive, for which a second reading agreement between the council and parliament has been reached.
within the eu we have strict rules on maritime safety and the condition of the vessels, but we are also concerned about what happens in international waters both because it could easily affect the european union and because we are concerned about the global environment.
in the longer term it will be crucial from a financial stability perspective for the positive guarantee schemes to contribute to smooth crisis management in an increasingly pan-european banking environment.