the new members of the reunified europe are increasingly dependent on external suppliers of energy sources at the eastern borders of the union.
joint european action in the field of energy policy is more important than ever.
we are strong when we are united, but when we follow the policy of separate deals in energy policy, we are being outmaneuvered.
it costs eur 250 million per year for our taxpayers, not to mention the environmental damage caused by the hundreds of journeys and thousands of cars travelling between the two cities.
let us respect our voters, let us respect the environment, let us encourage chancellor merkel to fight for a single seat.
efforts should be made to improve economic growth and employment, to strengthen europe's global political and economic weight, to develop a common energy and climate policy, and to create a european area of security and stability.
it is true that europe needs a sustainable, well-functioning railway.
i agree that climate change could have catastrophic consequences for the world and europe .
if we don't radically reverse our current practices, if we don't change our current lifestyles in the next 10 years, it could cause enormous economic and ecological damage.
it is therefore in the interest and the moral obligation of all member states to commit themselves to the climate policy announced by the german presidency to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020, to increase the share of renewable energy in the total energy mix to at least 20% and to reach 10% of bio-based products in fuel consumption.
it is unacceptable that some member states only support in words the pan-european effort to achieve energy efficiency and savings.
this industrial revolution is about stopping climate change, and the result is going to be a low-carbon, and then a carbon-free economy.
mr president, in my one minute of speaking time, i would like to focus on three issues based on my amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety yesterday.
transport is one of the main sources of climate change; road transport uses five times more energy than train transport for the same number of passengers.
energy efficiency can be increased only along with a very balanced green tax system.
in the longer term, europe should have a harmonised ecological tax system, because without such a system, our common environmental policy does not have proper tools.
our developed member states have exported their energy and natural-resource-consuming activities to less-developed countries, exporting greenhouse emissions and environmental damage as well.
in the southern counties of hungary, the police have discovered a huge amount of municipal waste, up to 5000 tons, probably of german origin.
the main objective of the new european waste management reform is to significantly reduce the amount of waste landfilled.
for those at the top of the scale (see denmark, the netherlands, germany), the proportion of municipal waste collected separately is around 50%, while at the bottom of the scale it is just over 2%.
a similarly large difference can be seen in the case of the separate collection of industrial waste.
less than 2,5% of municipal waste is recycled, which is also one of the lowest rates among the member states of the union.
industrial waste, on the other hand, is over 70%, which is a lot.
well, in my country, the industry was made legally obliged to separate waste collection a few years ago.
in contrast, the selective collection of municipal waste was to be introduced on a voluntary basis by the creation of waste collection islands.
the result speaks for itself: only 2% of all municipal waste is collected selectively.
unfortunately for hungary, today's debate on the revision of the waste framework directive has taken on an unexpected timeliness.
in recent weeks, the hungarian police have opened a multi-faceted waste management procedure for a large amount of waste illegally transported from germany to hungary and dumped there.
first, in addition to the waste hierarchy, the social costs of managing the waste at each level of the hierarchy must also be taken into account.
the application of the waste hierarchy can thus contribute to the efficient use of natural resources and to the reduction of energy dependency, in addition to the environmental benefits.
secondly, the principle of proximity and self-sufficiency should be emphasised, as the transport of waste, and in particular the increasing volume of transport of hazardous waste, causes significant environmental problems.
thirdly, it is appropriate to give market-conform tools a place in waste management regulation.
although technical specifications such as limit values are inevitable in many cases, a greater role could be given to fees that internalise the external, economic costs of waste generation.
as my colleague mr gyürk has already said, and as i have experienced in my own constituency, huge quantities of garbage and household waste are arriving in central and eastern europe.
the reason for this is that it is obviously much cheaper in germany - even illegally, with some corrupt methods - to get rid of waste than to sort it and process it in a highly bureaucratic way at home.
so the first message is to be careful with this bureaucracy and try to get the waste to be processed where it actually comes from.
the second is to have a constant accounting and traceability of waste, without which no result can be achieved.
i find it unacceptable that we as victims have to prove where the waste comes from, that we have to bear the cost of its destruction.
in hungary, several recent scandals have drawn attention to the avoidance of waste policy.
both the czech republic and hungary were flooded with illegal shipments of waste from western europe.
if we are to prevent western european waste from landing in the new member states, we need a new framework directive that does not leave any loopholes and that also places a strong emphasis on waste prevention.
it is also important to use and recycle the waste generated in accordance with the five-point hierarchy laid down in the framework directive, thus minimising landfill waste.
i also suggest that if the waste issue is regulated further, the european commission should set up a central register of waste shipments, which would also facilitate controls.
it would also be useful to have uniform and mandatory marking of waste on the outside of transport vehicles.
the bullmann report, by focusing on the role of smes, research and development, the environment and the energy sector, aims clearly at creating greater coherence in the policy-making processes and the economic governance of the union while attempting to develop a genuinely effective and inclusive european labour market.
europe is not doing badly in aligning industrial and environmental objectives, but there is still work to be done.
in itself, it would be gratifying to see 30-35% of bank loans go to projects to improve the natural and built environment, but 60% of these loans went to urban projects, while only 20% went to energy efficiency improvements.
the bank group's contribution is essential to closing the energy gaps between member states.
i will take my country, hungary, as an example: according to eurostat's survey, the hungarian state spends the least on energy saving and energy efficiency measures among the countries of central and eastern europe.
in the context of my colleague mr santos' report, i would like to draw your attention to a key issue in european energy policy.
the report also contains a noble objective which is often mentioned in the current debate on european energy policy: the european union must achieve a complete internal energy market within a few years.
however, the european commission's recent sectoral review unfortunately shows that the european energy market is today too concentrated, with national markets.
the price that mvm pays for the contracted energy for most power plants appears to be significantly higher than the wholesale price mvm would pay if the power plants were to compete.
the legislative provision requiring the renegotiation of agreements has so far not led to any results and the inadequate functioning of the energy market continues to cause serious disadvantages for consumers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal energy market is fully operational.
competitive markets reduce costs for citizens and businesses, encourage energy efficiency and investment, and contribute to security of supply.
if china can make a positive contribution through structured dialogue to regional peace and stability, then we can also engage china in a dialogue which will help to create a climate of confidence that will allow for a pragmatic solution to the tibet issue.
last year, when austria was president, i interviewed the austrian minister, josef pröll, here in parliament, who promised to end pollution by the end of last summer.
the hungarian delegation of the european people's party decided to take united action against further austrian pollution and against the planned incinerator on the border, the austrian-hungarian border.
i would add that the favourable economic environment has attracted a number of transnational corporations to east-central europe since the early 1990s.
the debate on corporate social responsibility is a very sensitive issue that divides people, as we want to ensure a strong european social environment, while also improving the competitiveness of european enterprises.
the current practice of corporate social responsibility (csr) is a good example of how strengthening the social and environmental dimension does not necessarily lead to a decline in the competitiveness of companies.
the document talks a lot about the importance of energy policy, and we agree with that.
the document does not contain the substantive and institutional conditions for the external energy policy component.
poverty, demographic challenges, global climate change, international terrorism, organized crime, energy issues, these are all threats that require appropriate and complex responses and solutions.
in recent months, more and more people in hungary have become concerned about global climate change.
our development is unsustainable because we lack the natural resources to meet our current needs, and our emissions and waste are inevitably polluting our environment.
the german presidency has rightly recognised the need to act to slow down the pace of climate change.
increasing the share of renewable energy in the european energy mix is appropriate.
but it would be a grave mistake to forget that global climate change is not the only environmental threat.
air pollution, the presence of carcinogens in our daily lives, the excessive use of pesticides, the extinction of certain animal and plant species, the accumulation of waste also threaten our future, sustainable development.
if we want a more humane future for ourselves and our descendants, we must act in all areas for a greener, healthier, more sustainable future.
the hungarian prime minister ferenc gyurcsány's statements in brussels showed that he had also contributed to the definition of inflated climate and energy policy goals by voting for the hungarian government.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the renewable energy sector, but it is already in the process of being adopted.
i believe that only international cooperation can effectively slow down the effects of global climate change.
and china is spending its growing trade surplus not on building democracy, not on reducing poverty, not on protecting the environment, not on reducing co2 emissions, but on armaments.
the solution through stable, sustainable and viable regulation for kosovo is of paramount importance for the stability of the entire western balkans region.
– last week the commission held an important and interesting conference on the ecological taxation – eco-taxes.
sustainable development and a proper climate policy need political and administrative rules – strict regulations, directives, laws and by-laws.
an adequate tax system can decrease the use of the natural resources, pollution and environmental damages, and can encourage the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
as commissioner lászló kovács said, during the second half of his term he intends to concentrate on taxation promoting the eu’s energy targets and to fight climate change.
the european parliament should call for a solid and environmentally aware european-level taxation, which can contribute to sustainable development and saving energy.
one of the main foreign policy challenges of this year is to lay the foundations for a common foreign policy on energy.
it would be wrong to think that the short-term interest of any member state could be different from, or jeopardise, the interest of the common energy security of the european union.
the establishment and strengthening of partnerships for the diversification of energy sources is a priority.
each member state has a great responsibility not to jeopardise this highly important project by acting unilaterally, since this serves to diversify the european union's energy resources.
at their summit in march, eu member states unanimously endorsed a common energy policy.
one of the cornerstones of the community's emerging energy policy is the nabucco pipeline, which has been given new impetus by the member states' decision to encourage it and by the commitment of the european bank for reconstruction.
such statements are in the interests of those who seek to divide the european union in energy cooperation for reasons of power beyond economic interests.
the common energy policy must be based on a united approach, not on individual measures, because the question of european security of supply cannot be a matter of short-term interests.
only a union of solidarity and unity can safeguard its interests in the field of energy.
today, there is no community energy policy, although many people would like to have one.
i can assure you, mr vice-president, that the european parliament will support you in solving the most difficult problems if a transparent, clear, sustainable timetable and a solution structure, and acceptable financing, are put in place, either through negotiation or through alternative solutions.
i agree with mr dimas that the future, global climate change and how we respond to its challenges is one of the most important issues.
i also think it is important that flood protection plans include potential hazards that can cause environmental pollution during floods.
since floods, like air pollution, know no borders, third states, such as ukraine, must be involved in the implementation of the directive.
we want economic growth, because many people are still in need, but without increasing the use of natural resources and with less environmental impact.
i am happy that all but one of them has found favour with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
despite the growing evidence of the unreasonable and excessive use of natural resources and the fact that concern for the sustainability of the natural environment has become part of everyday life, today humanity, and especially the political leaders of societies, do not have a clear concept of how to deal with the problem.
the political concept of sustainable development is too general to lead to tangible results, and it simultaneously attempts to address the protection of the natural environment by addressing the complex problem of intergenerational and inter-national justice.
environmental testing methods (such as life cycle assessment (lca)) and indicators (such as the ecological footprint) are fraught with methodological problems and are often contradictory.
while not disputing the usefulness of establishing a single, comprehensive and transparent knowledge base and developing indicators to measure the use of natural resources, it should be stressed that a number of measures could be implemented in their absence, it is regrettable that both the commission's proposal and the accompanying report by the committee on the environment are silent on the important role that the market, market-based regulation, can play in the efficient use of natural resources.
it would be a mistake not to recognise that the lack of a single, unfettered and competitive european market is what is holding back the development of many resource-efficient solutions (such as the wider deployment of renewable energy sources).
the fight against corruption has not yet produced much results, the return of refugees needs to be supported more and there is also a lot of work to do in the field of environmental protection.
i would like to congratulate mr lauk in particular on his excellent report, which takes a clear position on the sustainability of the euro area's public deficit.
the most important indicator is the measure of employment, which is more objective and highlights the sustainability of public finances than the unemployment rate.
– i welcome this report as an important follow-up to my report on the thematic strategy for the urban environment.
in this respect i should highlight that in an energy crisis, a switch to a different energy source is easier to achieve with district heating.
many unnecessary energy consumption can be prevented with the increasing of the environmental performance of buildings with energy-efficient house design: insulation, renewable energy use, green roofs, passive/active solar design, low energy houses, etc.
i recommend the development of a database for an eu-wide sharing of best practices in improving energy and water efficiency in buildings.
when the pollution was protested by the inhabitants, the civilians, the local mayors, the ministers, the members of the european parliament and even the president of the republic, the austrian authorities were not persuaded to claim that they were fully complying with eu standards, thus shifting the problem of the foaming river to brussels and us, the european parliament.
i am familiar with the european union's environmental legislation, but i am not aware of any legislation that allows chemicals to be poured into a river.
the austrian ministries should not point to brussels, not write a note against the czech nuclear power plant in temelin, but eliminate their own pollution.
in the last 100 years, biodiversity has been lost at a rate greater than at any time in human history.
human activities, including deforestation, water, soil, and air pollution, are largely responsible for the destruction.
it is therefore essential that the european commission develops a long-term strategy to effectively halt the loss of biodiversity.
to this end, natura 2000 programmes established to protect biodiversity should be directly funded from union funds as soon as possible.
these substances threaten the sustainability of ecosystems and human health.
i would ask my colleagues to support my amendments and the commission's amendments and to use our political power to protect our natural waters from becoming industrial waste water.
and another thing: the deadline that says we have to have the legislation in place by 2015, and the deadline that says we have to have no direct wastewater discharge or pollution to surface waters by 2025, is too long, in my opinion.
and it is not sustainable, either within the eu or vis-à-vis third countries, that the poorest partner is the one who remains the poorest.
in the current global economic environment, we stand out with our technological advances, our environmental awareness, our intellectual products and services, our innovative capacity, and we must build our own competitiveness on these.
this requires a common energy policy, a common immigration policy, a common fight against terrorism and a coordinated approach to environmental protection.
we are interested in a strong european union that can respond effectively to all the challenges we face today, such as terrorism, organised crime, illegal immigration, climate change, energy policy.
mr president, yesterday, two members of the hungarian parliament sent a bottle of polluted water from the river rába to the austrian minister for the environment.
dear austria fans, dear fellow parliamentarians, please help us to stop the river pollution on the austrian-hungarian border.
i know that many austrian ngos and political parties are protesting against the dangerous activities of some austrian companies and have obtained promises to stop them or at least to use filters to minimise the pollution.
what we need now, after many protests and promises, is action in the interests of a clean environment and the traditional austrian-hungarian friendship.
the treaty on european union can play an important role not only in enhancing the european union's importance in world politics, simplifying community law and decision-making, increasing its transparency and thus its closeness to citizens, but also in helping to create a business-friendly environment, in perfecting the single internal market.
last but not least, it can help protect the environment.
we are slowly reaching the point where every child born is worth gold or even more, it means the security of our future, the sustainable development of our nations, their survival.
my other guideline was parliament’s resolution of march 2006. our decision should balance environmental concerns and the interests of the industry.
however, in the digital environment, there are a number of factors that fuel consumer distrust.
it is our political and political responsibility to create the means in the european electronic environment to ensure that our internet users remain law-abiding consumers.
however, parliament is aware that the dynamic development of the digital environment and the ongoing review of consumer protection legislation will have a significant impact on the content of a future charter.
we need a common foreign policy, and joint action on fighting climate change and on guaranteeing human rights and minority rights without double standards.
as live earth concerts were held across seven continents this weekend to stop climate change, to reduce carbon emissions, a shocking announcement was made in slovakia.
because of the prevailing winds, this huge amount of pollution would almost immediately fall on hungary.
in a time when one of the biggest challenges is to reduce carbon emissions, when we are desperate to preserve biodiversity, no eu country, not with its immediate neighbour, not with the rest of the eu, should do so in such a gross disregard for our shared values and commitments.
i would ask the commission to follow up the recommendation in the report and to draw up a charter of energy consumers' rights as soon as possible, possibly this year.
it is now an indisputable fact that everyone needs energy, which is why we are putting the consumer at the heart of our future energy policy.
in practice, consumers are often not aware of when, under what circumstances and how to exercise their right to energy.
finally, i would remind everyone that the aim of energy policy is to ensure europe's security of supply, competitiveness and reduction of carbon dioxide.
recognising europe's energy vulnerability, more and more people believe that a strong europe cannot exist without a common energy policy.
when we think about the possible future pillars of the common energy policy, it is worthwhile to appreciate the pillar that already exists today.
mr vidal-quadras' report is about this already completed pillar, the internal energy market.
i agree with the report's finding that the expansion of the eu's internal energy market and the creation of effective solidarity mechanisms between member states serve both to increase security of supply and economic efficiency.
unfortunately, many member states have not yet fully implemented the energy market liberalisation directives.
i therefore hope that the common energy policy guarantees for a strong europe will be put in place as soon as possible.
it is important to define the concept of 'environmental damage' in line with other eu acts, such as the environmental liability directive.
most of us agree that existing capacities should be used more optimally, either individually or in an integrated way, and that each mode of transport should be sustainable in itself, particularly in logistics.
fifth, we must face the fact that the impact of transport on climate change has increased and continues to increase.
we need to create the right legal, economic and technical environment for the industry.
but what good are european responses to climate change if we cannot apply them globally?
mr commissioner, we believe that, after the mid-term review, european transport policy must be continuously renewed in this sense, adapted to new challenges, because otherwise congestion, pressure on the environment and problems of social sustainability will be serious obstacles to europe's economic growth and prosperity.
the arrangement that rewards the albanians and punishes the serbs is not sustainable.
we also referred to the major challenges we will face in 2010, such as the reform of the cap and the financial directive, the entry into force of the services directive or the emergence of new community policies, immigration, crime, monitoring of climate change, and also in the field of statistics.
climate change has made this summer a series of disasters.
there is no doubt that better regulation is fundamental to ensuring a fair and competitive market place, citizens’ welfare and the effective protection of public health and the environment.
in my report, i support the objective of ensuring that the regulatory environment is necessary, simple and effective.
among these recommendations we particularly support the emphasis given on the importance of tackling climate change through sustainable development actions; the necessity to substantially increase consumer confidence in cross-border purchases; the underlined competitiveness, growth and employment potential of innovation and smes; the encouragement of genuine free movement of workers throughout the union and, more generally, the removal of all obstacles for the completion of an integrated and efficient single market.
its existence contributes to sustainable economic development, improving competitiveness and ensuring regional development.
efficient logistics is the key to sustainable mobility.
i congratulate mrs thomsen on her excellent report and i agree with my colleagues, especially my colleague reino paasilinna, that we cannot be doctrinaires on energy, that we cannot believe that renewable energy in itself is a miracle drug.
at the same time, many have suggested that technological development is needed, because especially the new member states, the poorer member states, are sensing that both solar and wind energy, or in my country - hungary has a lot of thermal water - geothermal energy is very expensive to use.
and for example, when we produce bioethanol, we have to be sensible, because more fossil energy is needed to produce bioethanol than we can save.
given the challenges of climate change, increased dependence on fossil fuels and the growing challenges of rural job creation, the european union needs clear, enforceable regulation to be able to operate effectively in the field of renewable energy production, in particular in the area of biomass.
we need to create a legal environment for producers that makes renewable energy activities predictable, operational frameworks.
even if we have guidelines to increase the share of renewable energy, if the right conditions are not in place, those concerned will not dare to start this new type of production.
we must be aware that the ambitious objectives set for the european union, which aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase the use of renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency, can only be achieved if they are implemented at the level of local and regional actors in social and economic life, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
decentralised energy policy, combined with research programmes and a campaign to change consumer habits, can deliver tangible results not only in the use of renewable energy sources but also in employment and territorial development.
the local production, conversion and use of renewable energy sources will create new jobs, and the diversification and efficiency of energy supply will increase the economic stability of the region.
i would like to emphasise the important role of financial incentives both in connecting renewable energy sources to legacy networks and in commercialising renewable energy.
it is the responsibility of member states to create the regulatory environment that not only allows for the increase of energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy, but also provides all possible economic support and incentives for the development of local and regional development initiatives.
mr president, first of all, i must say that it is very regrettable that the eu's previous target of 12% renewable energy in the eu's energy mix by 2010 will in all likelihood not be met.
despite this failure, at the 2007 spring summit, the german presidency set an even more ambitious target for member states to increase the share of renewable energy to 20% by 2020. i think we have to be frank about the fear that, like the previous objectives, the current one is in danger because of the sabotage by the member states.
i therefore urge the commission and the member states to reach an agreement as soon as possible on the practical implementation of the 20% renewable energy target.
member states have already had to prepare their renewable energy strategy, taking into account cost-effectiveness and sectoral analysis of the possibilities of each country.
the targets set out in the renewable energy roadmap, the national specific targets and the mandatory sectoral targets should therefore be followed by detailed implementation plans and penalties for failure to meet those targets.
sanctions, because we must not forget that countries that are reluctant to meet common goals risk damaging international confidence in europe's commitment and credibility in the fight against climate change, and this undermines the already fragile chance of a global agreement.
this will not only contribute to the implementation of the railway reform, but will also create a competitive environment from which consumers themselves will benefit.
improving the efficiency and quality of rail networks and services is indeed a key issue not only for the development of a sustainable transport sector but also for congestion and air pollution.
energy security is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges facing the european union.
today, this is not primarily a technical issue, not a business issue, not even an energy issue, but a fundamentally strategic issue.
the european union as a whole currently imports 50% of its energy from outside the union.
experts estimate that by 2030, 70% of its energy needs will be imported.
this means that energy dependence is very high and many member states are already much more dependent on external suppliers and many of the new member states are dependent on a few single suppliers.
from a supplier who increasingly uses energy as a tool for political gain.
a common energy policy is urgently needed today.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources.
it is essential to diversify sources and transport routes, as these are unstable areas, both in terms of energy sources and transport routes, or are largely unstable areas that also threaten security of supply.
the report proposes the appointment of a chief energy officer, which is not supported by alde.
we also think it is very important that the report stresses the importance of energy projects, and here too nabucco stands out as the european union's major joint energy project, which can be the first step towards a genuine common foreign policy.
these are partly environmental concerns, but they are at least as much political concerns, and this pipeline can only be realized if we find a solution to all these concerns that is reassuring and we get a reassuring answer.
the energy charter treaty is particularly important because it is the basis for european energy cooperation and russia must accept it.
the report towards a common european external energy policy makes the important point that europe's energy supply is increasingly dependent on unstable and undemocratic countries.
the increasingly clear dependency is compounded by the fact that energy is increasingly being used as a tool for political pressure.
these developments make it urgent to create a common european energy policy based on solidarity.
the major european energy projects can be the practical implementation of the common policy.
this, coupled with the reluctance of the previously reluctant hungarian government to support the construction of the pipeline, could mean that the gas pipeline linking european consumers to caspian resources could become a symbol of a successful common energy policy rather than a symbol of uncertainty.
the integration of children with disabilities into the school environment is essential to their acceptance and integration into society as adults.
we in east central europe have not had a good experience with the willingness to give data, and we get to the point where a gypsy is who his environment considers him to be, and it's mostly a question of lifestyle, not true racial identity.
and it's crucial to a sustainable future that we conserve as much of our natural resources as possible.
the strategy on capacity, efficiency and safety at european airports prioritises optimising and developing existing capacity, promoting combined transport and reducing environmental impact.
it is well known that the environmental damage of flying, apart from greenhouse gas emissions, is largely caused by take-off and landing and so-called taxiing.
pollution around airports would be greatly reduced if passengers could take the train or subway to the airport instead of millions of cars.
the chilean delegation of our parliament - thank you, mr president, for the floor - met not only chilean representatives but also environmental organisations in santiago earlier this month.
they believe that the environmental principles of eu companies operating in chile are different from those in europe.
the lack of environmental standards often attracts european capital abroad.
environmental rigour must therefore be promoted not only within the union but also outside it.
– pesticides are among the most dangerous chemicals, as they are designed to kill and they are released deliberately into the environment and onto food.
i'll start with the good news: the european union is the flagship of the fight against climate change, and today these 27 countries are doing the most in the world to fight climate change.
the davis report has, in a commendable way, shone a light on some of the important elements of this, but if anyone thinks that if we reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of our growing number of cars to 120 grams or 95 grams, whatever it is, we've solved it, well, they're very wrong.
the report before us makes no secret of the fact that there are important arguments against conventional energy sources.
most of the talk today is about climate change.
however, fossil fuels not only contribute to global climate change, but also increase europe's vulnerability to external suppliers.
gas accounts for almost 50% of the energy mix of this resource-poor country, 80% of which comes from a single external source, russia.
at the same time, these and similar data demonstrate that conventional energy sources will play an unavoidable role in europe's energy supply in the coming decades, even as renewables gain ground.
i agree with the rapporteur that when formulating its policy on conventional energy sources, the european union should focus on three fundamental objectives: increasing efficiency, exploiting the potential of research and development in this context, and reducing dependence on external sources.
hungary gave up the vain political idea of becoming a country of iron and steel in 1956. fortunately, the union did not have to go to such extremes to realise and recognise that in the 21st century, all our knowledge and resources are needed to secure our energy needs.
and the number of feet europe's energy supply will be able to stand on in 10 to 20 to 50 years is not a matter of ideology but of science.
we say no to overdosing on health and environmental or social policy grounds, rather than responding adequately to the challenges of anti-inflationary policy and competition.
if we have clear goals for the environment and health and we can mobilise society, ngos and politicians – not forgetting good lawyers – then we can reach our goals, step by step.
in the context of the eu-russia summit, i would like to draw attention to a number of energy policy-related factors.
it is no exaggeration to say that the russian energy industry is not governed by the rules of the market economy today.
while it seeks access to the european energy sector, it does not open its own market to foreigners.
in the energy-related affairs of recent years, it should also be noted that moscow has used its energy exports in many cases to exert political pressure.
in formulating a common european energy policy, we must take into account the fact that russia is no longer able to cover its natural gas consumption and exports from its own resources.
we must make it clear that we do not accept monopolistic tendencies towards energy sources.
ensuring a stable energy supply is a fundamental community interest.
europe's energy supply is unthinkable today without russia.
with its excellent research results and scientific expertise in the fight against climate change, budapest would be an ideal location for the european institute of technology.
scientists and decision-makers from more than 60 countries attended the world science forum, including four heads of state, the secretary-general of unesco and the commissioner for the environment [...] (interruption: i can't continue, mr president!)
just as the president of hungary, lászló sólyom, proposed the creation of a new world environmental organization in his speech, the heads of the united nations environment programme announced the creation of a new international organization.
the main message of the world forum is that science and politics must work together to curb climate change and environmental degradation.
i ask the commission and you to support the event and the idea behind it, which is that we must stand together for the environment and sustainability for our own sake and for the sake of future generations.
the key role of sport is widely recognised around the world and it has become an important actor in spreading positive values and messages and in building socially and environmentally sustainable economies.
the rise of sedentary activities, the spread of cars, the decline in physical activity and the increasing consumption of high-energy food and drinks are causing significant health damage to our citizens.
our fundamental objective is to provide a healthy environment for our citizens, and there are strict eu laws on most elements of our environment.
soil is the only environmental element that we have not yet managed to regulate, so there is currently no eu instrument to stop soil pollution, soil degradation, which causes tens of millions of euros of damage to all of us.
under current legislation, action against soil pollution is only required when it enters other environmental elements, such as groundwater, living waters and agricultural products, i.e.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this new directive by the european union and am pleased that a compromise package has been created which is even more acceptable from an environmental point of view.
i therefore hope that the efforts of some right-wing meps, including surprisingly hungarian meps, to prevent the birth of a directive protecting the interests of hungarian agriculture and the environment will not succeed.
in our day, when extreme weather events caused by climate change and the increasing burden of civilization are placing on the soil and thus on all living things, this legislation is of particular importance.
without them, not only would we be deprived of food but our environment would suffer.
sustainable agriculture based on knowledge is one of the main pillars of environmental protection.
in my country, hungary, the picture is typically twofold: on the one hand, high-quality land, a high degree of legal protection, on the other hand, industrial pollution caused by 40 years of communism, which will take at least another 40 years and cost about 4 billion euros to clean up.
however, direct emissions from aviation account for about 3% of the eu’s total greenhouse gas emissions, and this is increasing fast.
i think that the quantity of the three allowances should have been based on the emission rate per capita of greenhouse gases in the different member states, as there are large differences between them.
i feel that it is unfair that western european countries have the right to emit around three times more greenhouse gas from aviation as hungary and other new member states.
i think this principle should be applied in other environmental policies requiring a total amount of decrease instead of a percentage decrease.
a growing proportion of the population in the developed world is aware of the threat posed by climate change.
but to reduce our emissions by as much as 20% in 13 years, we need to take drastic steps.
at the same time, we know that the target can only be achieved at the cost of reducing emissions by involving all the areas concerned.
we politicians will be strategically supportive of european companies only if we create an environment that encourages innovation.
will they have energy, will they have a livable environment?
this is what european energy policy is all about, building a low-carbon economy.
the expansion of trade is in the common interest of europe and ukraine, but trade free from distortions is needed to ensure that ukraine also applies social, labour, animal and plant health and environmental rules.
in hungary, poultry farmers have to make very costly investments in order to meet animal welfare and environmental standards.
but all the products that would be produced by circumventing animal welfare standards would be returned to the european union, just as we would have to face environmental problems in hungary through the tisza river, which flows from ukraine to hungary.
i therefore believe that we must help ukraine to apply all international social, animal health, environmental and animal welfare rules as soon as possible.
this is particularly true in the field of energy policy.
the events of recent months have once again highlighted the lack of transparency in the energy sector in ukraine today.
the european union and ukraine should therefore jointly seek to ensure that the principles of transparency and competition are applied in the development of energy cooperation.
more specifically, we ought to set up consistent approaches, together with ukraine, on important issues, such as the reliability of energy supply, nuclear safety, agricultural matters and environmental sustainable standards.
the threat of climate change must be addressed and a secure and sustainable energy supply must be organised.
environmental protection and the introduction of environmentally friendly technologies are now a global issue affecting society as a whole.
we need to put energy production on a secure footing, reduce consumption, and stop waste by introducing energy-saving technologies.
the reduction in the use of fossil fuels should be accompanied by an increase in the share of alternative energy sources.
the establishment of a european tourism model is of primary importance for the union, as tourism objectives should be based on values related to quality, sustainability, and equal access for all.
tourism development must be sustainable, i.e.
it must take account of local communities and the environment.
drafted by the committee on industry, research and energy.
the link between certain forms of trade and climate change is becoming increasingly clear.
there is no denying that intensive international trade has many negative consequences, including increased carbon dioxide emissions and reduced greenhouse gas-absorbing vegetation habitat.
however, i am convinced that free trade is not in itself the same as environmental damage.
this requires the european union to play an active role in international negotiations on climate change.
secondly, we must strive to ensure that product prices in the future reflect the negative consequences that are not directly observable, including the effects of climate change.
finally, thirdly, we believe that a sufficiently in-depth discussion of the link between trade and climate change is a primary community interest.
as the above points show, the members of the industry committee are unanimous in their view that both the removal of barriers to trade and action on climate change can only be achieved through the broadest possible international cooperation.
the discussions in the committee have also reinforced our view that, in the face of climate change, trade is not only part of the problem, but also part of the solution.
and the number one cause of asthma, of asthma attacks, is air pollution.
i think that these data speak for themselves, the report that lies before us, and whose fate we will decide tomorrow, only partly environmental protection, much more quality of life, health protection.
the advantage is that it aims to measure and capture air pollution primarily at the source, which is a sound approach from a professional point of view.
with the collapse of heavy industry, or the move to the third world, industrial pollution decreased, but motorization increased many times over.
i am also in favour of abolishing the rules on the compulsory distillation of by-products, because it is a wasteful, unnecessary and unsustainable measure from an environmental point of view.
i am also one of those who care about the high-level product safety that affects 550 million european citizens; who care about trade imbalance, effective market access, intellectual property rights and international competition policies that affect thousands of european companies and millions of european employees; and who care about cooperation on environment protection, international environment governance and climate change that affects the whole population of the earth.
as this is the most important mode of transport for its size, i think people have a legitimate expectation that this mode of transport for people and goods is also safe and clean, that the risk of accidents at sea and pollution from ships is reduced.
the environmental damage caused by accidents like this and others like it does not stop at the borders of one country or one continent, it endangers our common values, our common natural resources, it destroys them permanently, irreparably.