mr president, i listened very carefully to what minister gabriel said, because the headlines in the irish papers today state: ‘germany fights eu limits on car emissions’.
the papers go on to state that ‘german chancellor angela merkel pledged to fight “with full vigour” the plans to introduce across-the-board limits on co2 emissions from cars …’.
it makes no sense for thousands of us from hundreds of countries to meet once a year, use up carbon and fly to all sorts of locations to sit and argue mainly about what should be on the agenda, then leave again after up to two weeks, only to come back 12 months later to pick up the argument about the agenda that we had left 12 months earlier!
we must drive it upstairs to prime-ministerial and head-of-state level throughout the 12 months of the year, and not just the annual meeting at the united nations convention on climate change or the kyoto mop meeting.
mr president, this is a golden opportunity to overcome europessimism by showing citizens the added value of our sovereign states sharing power to address the global problem of climate change, about which they are all seriously concerned.
hard political decisions must be made on taxation, renewable energy, fuel efficiency and cleaner technologies that will revolutionise our industries and our consumption.
– madam president, i very much welcome the commission's strategy and revised framework waste directive.
through this legislative proposal the eu is demonstrating its leadership and assistance to member states, addressing the snowballing problem of waste and its environmental and health impact, while further jump-starting a sector that is already providing upwards of two million jobs.
as our economies modernise in our respective countries across the union, we are simultaneously producing 1.3 billion tonnes of waste annually, some 40 million tonnes of which is hazardous.
decoupling waste generation from economic growth is vital, otherwise, according to the oecd, we face, at our current rate, the generation of 45% more waste than in 1995. prevention is key, and to succeed in this we need to involve all stakeholders, producers and consumers.
member states will now be obliged to provide waste-management and waste-prevention plans, focusing policymakers at eu, national and local level on prevention, thereby triggering an increase in waste-prevention policies.
i welcome the amendments of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety calling for binding targets to stabilise waste production at anticipated 2008 levels by 2012 and calling for greater reuse and recycling to reduce pressure on landfill sites.
we need to make citizens aware of their current and possible future impact in the reduction, reuse and recycling of waste.
our citizens are becoming more conscious of the environment and it is up to us, the politicians, to lead them.
madam president, i agree with mrs jackson that her five-step waste hierarchy sends out clear signals to member states on waste prevention and management legislation, and that she has allowed enough wriggle room so that the environment will always be the winner in waste policy and that member states take full account of the principles of the precautionary approach and sustainability, together with other criteria covering the ecological, economic and social impacts, when applying the five-step waste hierarchy in a carbon-efficient way.
i believe that recovery needs to be unambiguously defined, although there may still be further fine tuning needed after we vote tomorrow, and that the energy efficiency criteria (which should be in the annex) to determine whether municipal waste incinerators should be classified as recovery or disposal operations are a realistic and logical contribution to europe’s waste and energy challenges.
i agree that it is of critical importance for the environment and for human health that municipal waste incinerators conform to gold standards and use best available technology.
waste is a resource and an energy source, and we must not exclude ways to use it as such after the five-step hierarchy.
the wording of the commission text and that of the latest ppe-de group amendment referred to energy efficiency criteria as being ‘equal to or above’ the stated levels.
this amendment will ensure that we will not prejudice further legislation or future legislation, such as a potential waste incineration directive, making criteria even stricter if needs be.
firstly, i support the five-stage hierarchy of waste, but flexibility should only be on a case-by-case basis, otherwise we run the risk that this approach may mean everything and nothing at the same time.
secondly, i agree with the rapporteur that we should only use the comitology process for technical purposes and that we should move to codecision processes in articles 5, 11 and 21. thirdly, i believe that waste incineration should not be reclassified as a recovery operation but remain as a disposal operation.
illegal waste dumping knows no borders and it is most certainly not one-way traffic; greater vigilance is needed on both sides of the border.
i welcome the idea that we should stabilise waste production by 2012 at 2008 levels.
this will be difficult for a number of member states, not least my own, where waste – domestic waste in particular – has increased by 44% over the last 10 years.
the environmental protection agency in ireland has pointed out that something like 25% of domestic waste in ireland is unaccounted for and we know that the commission is already investigating a number of illegal dumps in ireland where this domestic waste – and some industrial waste also – is going.
we have had some progress towards tackling climate change, social policy and other issues of importance in the single market, but citizens want to see action being taken on a real level that affects their lives in real ways, rather than mere reaction to problems when they arise.
we and the fianna fail delegation in the ep have voted in favour of a stronger commission proposal on waste favouring the five-stage hierarchy with the essential emphasis on prevention and reduction of waste, followed by reuse, recycling, recovery and then the safe and environmentally sound disposal of waste in this order of priority.
we have voted in favour of calling for binding targets for member states to stabilise waste production at anticipated 2008 levels by 2012 and support the ep call for greater reuse and recycling to reduce pressure on landfill sites, for member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that, where practicable, all waste undergoes recovery operations, to take measures to promote recycling and to set up collection schemes of different streams, to move towards a recycling society by 2020 where 50 % of our municipal solid waste should be recycled in addition to biowaste and industrial waste.
i supported the jackson report today because it encompassed the thrust of the environment committee’s progressive stance on waste prevention and management.
i am particularly satisfied that the european parliament has rejected the commission’s proposal to re-brand municipal waste incinerators based on certain criteria.
the inclusion of the five-step waste hierarchy plan and the insistence on obliging member states to provide waste prevention plans are also welcome.
while i supported the resolution, the eu needs to take additional initiatives to address climate change shop shelves are full of low value, perishable goods that have been transported tens of thousands of miles to satisfy consumer pricing expectations.
the carbon footprint left behind by this form of global trading is colossal.
i am therefore calling for the introduction of a “carbon labelling” system, which would give consumers the information to make responsible and wise choices.
the european union emissions trading system is one of the most important policy instruments available to the european community and its member states to achieve their kyoto targets in the most cost-effective manner.
the presidency will continue its review of the european union's emissions trading system on the basis of the commission's communication identifying the priority issues to be addressed.
the presidency will work to ensure that the emissions trading system delivers the expected contribution to the kyoto targets and will advocate for the improvement and expansion of the eu ets to ensure a global carbon market that delivers the emission reductions needed to address climate change.
i am sure that when the energy action plan is presented in the spring, a viable solution will be found, involving the various modes of transport and the various emitters who play a role.
germany also holds the g8 presidency, and this shows that energy, climate change and environmental protection are also important topics of discussion, for example with the major consumer countries china and the united states.
with increasing global demand for oil, the deterioration of the stability of the middle east, particularly with the possibility of an iranian war looming and with the search for oil becoming more difficult and expensive as the biggest oil fields play out, why do we not reserve oil for essential uses like some plastics or jet fuels, and use sustainable alternatives in motoring, home heating, electricity generation and other applications that are possible to substitute?
outside of the issues in relation to climate change which i have just mentioned, three other key areas that the commission must face and deal with in the coming year are the issues of ensuring the delivery of the lisbon agenda and, in particular, investment in research and development – 3% of gdp – looking at areas of innovation and encouraging the new technologies, which will become the major employment opportunities for europe in the future.
of course, we will have to match the increase with greater fuel efficiency in order to avoid major increases in emissions.
we have many regional airports with the potential to open up areas of europe to visitors and business, but i fear that they will be sidelined in the deregulated, competitive environment of open skies, if we are not careful about how it is set up.
of course we should be concerned about climate change, but the answer is to find new fuels for air transport and make more efficient use of existing fuels.
but i might specifically ask that, perhaps, further financial resources might be made available to develop environmental issues in schools, and i believe that the commission should, in fact, pursue this area more.
the topical question nowadays is how we protect our environment – the means and the method – and i honestly believe that we should try to get that message home to young people.
the nuclear industry however still affects our environment and health as foreign nuclear power plants have affected our seas and countryside causing health problems for our population.
as far as energy is concerned, if we do not increase the rate of excise duty on certain energy products like fuels, this would result in more fuel consumption, which would lead to more pollution as well as adding to the additional danger of climate change.
therefore, excise duty plays an important role in not only improving the internal market but also in other areas such as health, climate change and environmental factors.
most importantly it contains: a clearer and earlier attention to the impact of climate change in the preliminary assessment of flood risks; an agreement on the earlier date of 2011 for the first preliminary flood risk assessment, thus leaving member states more time to prepare the flood maps; a strengthened role of flood plains and the promotion of sustainable land use practices in flood risk management; sound coordination – also in relation to implementation – with the water framework directive and a link to the cost recovery principles in that directive; a further strengthening of the language on solidarity in river basin districts; and last but not least, a requirement to set clear priorities for the implementation of measures included in the flood risk management plans.
first is climate change, with the possibility of rising sea levels, and in ireland, increased rainfall.
the commission’s report came under a lot of fire when the committee on the environment, public health and food safety first discussed it in october, as the document is seriously limited in its ambition after five years of gestation.
this can probably be attributed to a turf war between the directorate-general for agriculture and rural development and the directorate-general for the environment – guess who won?
she correctly makes the point that the commission communication does not comply with the requirements laid down in the sixth environmental action plan for concrete targets and timetables.
i welcome the emphasis on an integrated policy approach and on the external impact of eu policy on sustainable resources.
mr president, as mrs merkel has said, we need a new ambitious economic partnership between the us and the eu, but it must go hand in hand with a new ambitious environmental partnership.
there was transatlantic accord at the recent g8 environment ministers’ meeting, when they agreed with the peer-reviewed scientific report of 2 500 world scientists that human-induced climate change is accelerating and that climate change has consequences not only for the natural environment but also for economic growth and development, global poverty levels, international security and energy supplies.
it was unanimously agreed that climate change requires ‘prompt action’ and ‘swift and determined policy responses’.
paragraph 16 of our motion for a resolution notes the disappointment that the united states has refused to move on issues such as emissions targets and the creation of global carbon-trading schemes.
however, with the stern report, recent elections in the us, the ipcc report and the increased demands from citizens on both sides, i feel that transatlantic dialogue and cooperation on climate change is increasing, and will and must lead to an agreement for the post-kyoto 2012 period that includes the united states.
the european court of justice has said that the eu can impose criminal sanctions for serious breaches of eu environmental law.
madam president, i welcome this report on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy.
another factor contributing to the water problem in ireland is the waste effluent from factories like aughinish alumina, county limerick, which has been a major source of pollution to the local and surrounding area with its toxic red mud deposits leaking into the water supply.
it is illegal to force-medicate populations with this dangerous toxic waste substance, which has caused an increase in bone disorders.
it is only when there is mutual decency and respect in the european workplace that the eu will be competitive and socially sustainable.
many here have mentioned issues such as climate change, pension security, energy security and others.
perhaps even more importantly, they looked at how better to protect european citizens in a single-market environment.
without a safe and secure environment, we cannot access the people most in need.
similar problems, not in relation to property ownership but certainly in relation to impact on the environment, on heritage and, indeed, on people’s quality of life are occurring as a result of major infrastructural developments in ireland, and it seems to be an issue that we at european level have not been able to get to grips with because the european legislation is not stringent enough or, indeed, the commission is not in a position to act fast enough in terms of addressing complaints when they are made.
when i visited madrid, for instance, i was made aware of the situation there, in which the regional authority redesignated a ring round around madrid as a city street, decided to develop it as a motorway, broke it up into about a dozen different pieces and argued that it therefore did not need to have an environmental impact assessment applied to it.
a regulation on food enzymes will therefore improve the operation of the single market in this area and thus promote european innovation and competitiveness, while ensuring a high level of consumer and environmental protection.
we are supposed to respect the precautionary principle in europe, especially when we are talking about putting genetically-modified organisms into the environment, considering that, with gm, any resulting adverse effects may be irreversible.
member states should retain the right to fully own and operate their energy systems if they see fit to do so.
as an all-ireland party we look forward to the development of an all-ireland energy market which is fully integrated and managed in an accountable way.
in particular, when we speak about that freedom, we must take into account our climate and in particular climate change.
as i said in lisbon, i welcome the fact that the brazil summit gave us an opportunity to bring forward the whole idea of renewable energies and look at ways of creating new world trade organisation and partnership with the developing world and, most importantly of all, to guarantee that our citizens have the rights and freedom to succeed in europe.
mr president, sustainable growth with more and better jobs is at the heart of the lisbon strategy.
it is crucial that wages increase in line with productivity in order to preserve competitiveness in member states and to allow for job creation in a non-inflationary environment.
the honourable member is in no doubt that energy issues, because of the very timeliness and importance of the subject, will have an absolutely obvious and extraordinarily significant relevance and importance in this presidency, as well as in other future presidencies, in the internal agenda as well as in the external agenda of the union.
madam president, the report on sustainable mobility for our continent, which we have just voted on, not only stresses the need to build up a better infrastructure, but implies that this must be done responsibly and respectfully.
it points out that member states must keep an eye on the environmental impact of improved infrastructure as well as examining transport, while taking into account socio-economic factors vis-à-vis safety.
according to the sustainable mobility report, future transport policy will have to optimise each country’s own potential to meet the objectives of clean and efficient transport systems.
while i agree with this sustainable europe and better transport infrastructure, i firmly believe that we cannot and should not sacrifice one of our most precious archaeological sites for a misplaced motorway.
– i broadly welcome the rapporteur’s report and agree that the development of the single market has delivered a range of benefits for europe’s citizens, notably by providing consumers with a wider choice and lower prices, creating a dynamic business environment and enabling the free exchange of goods, services and ideas.
finally, i believe that the report’s reference to nuclear power as an essential part of the eu’s energy mix is misplaced and i will not be supporting this element of the report.
my vote against this phrase is on the assumption that it was referring to nuclear fission, with which i and many others have a problem in terms of the disposal of radioactive waste and the legacy of decommissioning.
the toubon report contains many favourable points with regard to the knowledge society for a sustainable eu, for an eu open to the world and for a well-regulated eu.
– madam president, i welcome ms fraga estévez’s report, and particularly her highlighting of concerns on this proposal from the commission, as i have serious reservations about the commissioner’s proposals to adopt a maximum sustainable yield (msy) model as the reference point for managing fish stocks.
while the proposal aims to maximise the economic yield of a fishery, and also maintain the capacity of the stock to produce maximum sustainable returns in the long-term, i fear that, far from reducing the levels of discarded catch, critical flaws in the model may cause over-exploitation, as the underlying assumptions used for calculating levels of catch are based on single-species, shallow-water fisheries and do not take account of geographic and biological diversity.
moreover, for the large majority of scientists and also for the un food and agriculture organisation, the traditional msy model has been superseded by new cutting-edge approaches which encompass the ecosystem as a whole, rather than relying on an outdated concept of animal population dynamics.
in my country, ireland, residential energy accounted for about 25 % of the total final energy consumption.
a large proportion of this energy accounted for was connected to the consumption of energy for heat.
energy consumption in the domestic sector is greater than necessary, as people living in inefficient dwellings must consume more energy to heat their homes.
improving a household’s energy efficiency status can often be achieved by taking some relatively simple and inexpensive steps, such as fitting thermostatic valves onto radiators or using more energy efficient household appliances.
in promoting these measures one can save in energy costs whilst helping the environment.
better insulation would cut the residential energy consumption down by up to 5 %.
– in our efforts to tackle climate change we should not jeopardise efforts to protect biodiversity, ecosystems and europe’s food security.
the 8/9 march council conclusions specify that the 10% target for biofuels is an appropriate target only if it is subject to sustainable production.
the certification criteria should be designed to ensure that biofuels provide significant greenhouse gas savings over the whole life cycle and that their production does not cause a loss in biodiversity or major socioeconomic problems such as serious food price inflation.
– it is vital we ensure that the principles and goals of the eu’s development policy are respected and promoted through the measures foreseen in the field of energy and foreign policy.
access to energy is an essential enabling factor for economic growth and for the provision of basic living conditions for all human beings.
eu member states and european energy companies cooperate extensively with developing countries in the field of energy, yet it is not always clear how much the citizens of these resources actually benefit.
for this reason, i support all steps aimed at promoting transparency, the rule of law and improved governance in the energy sector.
many developing countries are heavily dependent on high carbon-emitting sources of energy.
they need assistance to be able to diversify their sources of energy to achieve a more sustainable mix.
we should take all reasonable steps to encourage their transition to clean technologies through building sustainable energy capacity and facilitating the transfer of clean technologies.
we must not tolerate this, just as we must not tolerate any of the human rights and environment practices of china any longer.
the quality of the school environment and teaching are prerequisites to efficiency.
we must seize all opportunities that the seas and oceans offer us, while always acting in a sustainable way.
commissioner špidla’s presentation today on the review of labour law exemptions in the maritime sector and commissioner piebalgs’ report on the interlinkages between the eu energy policy and the new integrated maritime policy are a very good start, but how many of the other items in the package that you announced today will require separate legislative proposals?
the cap is improving our environment and animal welfare continues to improve.
mr president, addressing concerns about energy supply is one of the major and most important issues facing the european union, linked as it is with concerns about climate change.
we face growing demand for energy and yet a high dependency on imported fossil fuels.
we need to invest heavily in our infrastructure, work towards liberalising the market and reduce our carbon emissions.
parliament is looking at an action plan on implementing energy policy for europe.
within ireland we are establishing an all-ireland energy market with the merging of electricity markets north and south.
to achieve a harmonised energy market, inter-connection with the rest of the european union is vital for ireland – but that will cost money, and i would urge the irish government to look at the use of cohesion funding to make that investment, because it is necessary for the continuation of irish economic growth.
there would be not attractiveness, just high unemployment in the long... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the report we have in front of parliament today rightly states that tax competition in the eu has led, and continues to lead, to eu-wide economic gains by way of a dynamic corporate environment.
i think that when we look at the overall example that has been given with this lisbon summit, we can see positives from it: we can see movement forward being made and, most importantly of all, an opportunity for a new zone and a new area of the development of the european union to come into play, in particular with those areas where codecision now reigns on issues of environment, globalisation, research, education and the necessity of the response of the european institutions to an ever-increasing speed of change within the world.
there is no doubt that, despite current legislation to reduce pesticides, excessive amounts of pesticides exist in our air, water and food supply, affecting our health and the environment.
today however, while my colleagues and i voted clearly for a reduction in pesticides in our day-to-day lives, it is important that we acknowledge the practical reality of the needs of farmers and fruitgrowers, particularly in this climate of rising food prices.
the commissioner has gone through some of the reasons why we now have this imbalance in supply and demand and i agree with her: weather, climate change, the demand from the developing countries and, yes, biofuels are impacting globally – the commissioner has acknowledged that.
could i urge parliament to show leadership by turning off the air conditioning, because i am frozen and it might help our contribution to climate change?
if we are putting our troops in a volatile environment, we must give them the means to protect themselves.
– mr president, i fully recognise that energy choices are matters to be decided by individual governments in europe.
international aviation is outside kyoto obligations, and the complete lack of progress in icao over the 10 years that they have been mandated to address emissions makes it important that the eu takes the lead.
the proposed emissions trading scheme should apply to all flights, including from third countries, from a common start date for competitiveness reasons.
the polluter-pays principle cannot be interpreted to mean that the irish taxpayer pays for pollution in our fellow eu member states.
there is a place in europe for ensuring that there is competition, not just in economic and in environmental terms, but also in the whole area of taxation.
– i welcome the commission's presentation of its work programme for 2008. i believe its approach to the challenges currently faced by the eu, such as the volatility in financial markets, combating climate change and ensuring energy security underlines that the eu can achieve together what no one member state could achieve in isolation.
with 300 soil types in europe, only 9 member states with national legislation in place, and the challenge of climate change before us, there is added value in an even-handed eu approach in addressing the international challenges caused by deforestation and decline in water quality, serious soil erosion, floods and landslides and ensuring safe food production.
the emission trading scheme is the most effective way of dealing with climate change emissions and to facilitate the eu in reaching its target of 20-30% by 2020. we voted today in favour of peripheral regions being taken into account in this directive and in favour of a deletion of a commission proposal allowing an airline to demand conversion of its aviation allowances to kyoto-backed allowances free of charge!
we voted to lower the cap allowance which will be the predicted actual end result in negotiations in future weeks, approximately 85-90% benchmarked against 2004-06 emissions.
the european parliament is increasingly seen by citizens as an important platform from which to defend their environment, the quality of their drinking water and their archaeological heritage.
there is an essential element of truth in the statement that all politics is local, and while individuals throughout the eu-27 are concerned with the big issues of globalisation, eu enlargement, emigration, energy supply etc., they are most often concerned with how these issues affect their lives, their families and their communities.
we also deal with a wide range of issues, and that requires members to educate themselves on all of those issues that come before us, from environment matters to financial services to whatever it is.
the environment where humanitarian action is taking place is evolving rapidly and continually poses new challenges.
a wide range of measures exist under the cap reform, as well as under the reform of environmental legislation, and these will bring about benefits for soil protection.
i also want to congratulate al gore, the former vice-president of america, for being recently awarded the nobel peace prize for his sterling work in highlighting the need for international action to arrest climate change.
receipt of this prize is an international recognition that climate change has risen to the top of the international political agenda.
it is international action that is now needed, so that we can all collectively ensure that carbon dioxide emissions are substantially reduced in the near future.
i thus fully support the 20/20 and 50/50 eu commitments to reduce carbon emissions.
in bali let the foundations of the building blocks and road map commence, based on: a shared vision; firm commitments from developed countries; the expansion of the use of carbon markets; the strengthening of cooperation on technological research and the reduction of deforestation.
therefore, i look forward to president pöttering’s proposal in february on how this house, the european parliament, can itself reduce its carbon footprint.
to properly take stock of social reality, we would also look at the sustainability of the natural habitat of the human person: the family.
this is to ignore the reality that social inequalities are a brake on economic progress and that we cannot have long-term sustainable prosperity for everyone if we treat social policy as an afterthought and fail to avail of the wasted talent of 72 million people, not to mention the human misery that hides behind that statistic.
on behalf of the fine gael delegation (epp-ed): fine gael members voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, as we believe it is important to have the european parliament’s view on climate change stated in advance of the bali conference.
the eu imported goods worth a total of eur 28 billion from the acp countries in 2004. this amounts to double the amount of development assistance that was made available through the ninth edf to the acp region, from 2000 to 2007. trade, and not aid, is the key for sustainable economic growth and development.
in the last few years we have had the phenomenon of what we know as ‘boy racers’, who modify old cars, take to the roads at all hours of the day and night and cause a major problem in relation to sound emissions which sound like a jet plane, causing major disturbance, particularly in urban areas.
secondly, would the commissioner not agree that, despite the fact there is resistance from industry, at the same time, from the point of view of visual intrusion, public health and the environment, it would preferable if such cables were underground?
thirdly, and most importantly of all, the whole issue with regard to the kind of development of a european vision that we want to see around the world as is now being played out in bali at the climate change conference, as will be played out in the future at some other conferences in new york in the coming months, and, most importantly, that we have to tell our citizens and inform them properly of what comes before them.