we share the presidency's concern about the energy problem, which must be solved within a european framework and certainly not in a bilateral agreement between russia and individual member states.
energy is the guarantee for development, economic stability and everyday life; energy and development go hand in hand with environmental problems and the observance of parameters whose violation will lead to catastrophe.
we would like to highlight three of them: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the following subjects: the balkans and the middle east, the fight against terrorism and energy.
in particular, there is a special opportunity in the field of energy, linked to the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome.
a two-tiered euratom would make it possible to tackle at european level what cannot yet be done anywhere at national level, but on which europe cannot risk falling behind: i am thinking of research, of managing delicate phases such as enrichment and waste disposal.
that is why we need a union capable of acting on the basis of a grundnorm, i say in german, a fundamental rule, to face the great challenges we face: from globalization to counterterrorism, from immigration to peace, from energy freedom to the climate emergency, from unemployment to the african question.
it is difficult not to share the priorities indicated (growth, employment, foreign policy) but, as i have stressed on other occasions and as my colleague mr de michelis has also reiterated this morning, in the face of any conceivable strategy of economic growth or diplomatic cooperation, there is, in my view, a sound policy of energy self-sufficiency if, as we have seen, a ship or a tree, if not the whims of a political leader, is enough to bring the economic activity of entire regions to its knees for hours.
this policy is not limited to cooperation with our partners, but also includes a strategic plan aimed at the research and practical use, especially in the industrial sector, of clean and renewable sources in response to both energy and environmental challenges.
however, if state monopolies were merely replaced by a few private monopolists, as is the case in some energy companies, then liberalisation would certainly not be effective.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr liese has just said that yesterday in the committee on the environment we adopted a very important resolution which goes into all the details, as minister gabriel called them, so i will not quote them.
so i think that while we are doing our part and being consistent in legislation - emissions trading, including aviation, reducing co2 for cars and all the other things that are in the works - we need to make a big leap in policy quality, by creating a strong alliance between the european institutions to present ourselves as strong as possible in international negotiations.
we as a parliament should perhaps do our part better too - first of all, of course, the legislator's part - but we can support the negotiations of the commission and the council, perhaps by proposing a great global alliance of parliaments, to make the fight against climate warming a real priority, as citizens demand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to combat climate change is very common in this house and certainly in the public consciousness.
in the meantime, let me make a brief statement, which will be useful to underline the intellectual honesty we owe to citizens who are less educated in this field: i think that when we talk about fighting climate change, it is good to specify that we are referring only to that part of the influence that man and his activities have on the environment, a part which, as scientifically proven, is far less than the geophysical and astronomical determinants.
i agree, of course, with the targets for abatement, as well as the efforts to boost renewable energy.
finally, ladies and gentlemen, although i am not a xenophobe, believe me, i ask again: does all our unilateral efforts on sustainability make sense when china and the asian economic tigers put into the atmosphere in one year as many climate-changing gases as the eu countries produce in ten years?
global warming and the associated climate upheavals are not an invention of environmental movements: the average temperature has risen by more than half a degree during the 20th century, and the cause is to be found in the emission of greenhouse gases produced by human activity.
the european union is responsible for about 14% of these emissions, the highest per capita share in the world.
that is why the fight against climate change, which requires the contribution of all countries, must be spearheaded by the most advanced nations.
however, in recent years there have been setbacks, particularly in the energy sector, and the commission's recent proposals have fallen short of expectations.
although commissioner dimas himself called for a 30% cut in emissions from 1990 levels, a 20% cut was agreed and a strategy on transport, alternative energy and green hydrogen technology was lacking.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank all those who have spoken today for their very positive speeches, which show how fully aware the problem of climate change is among the members of the european parliament and, of course, this is also a reflection of public opinion which has become very aware.
i would like to thank the german presidency and in particular mr sigmar gabriel for the cooperation we have had, for the way he has spoken and defended environmental issues and i hope that the german presidency will be fully effective and will respond to the expectations of european citizens and to the views expressed tonight.
climate change is a global challenge and the european union's leadership is crucial in addressing it.
we must ensure the credibility of the european union in its global leadership role in tackling climate change and we must send the strongest possible message to our partners in both the developed and developing world.
we must also stress the importance of the decisions to be taken in the next few years on the international climate change regime and i will perhaps refer to this later to ensure that even more efforts are made across the globe after the first commitment period under the kyoto protocol ends in 2012. the scientific and economic arguments for taking ambitious, global action to tackle climate change are clear and compelling.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: this is precisely what the commission is seeking to do with the climate and energy package.
the next few years will be crucial in shaping a global framework to ensure that irreversible and potentially catastrophic climate change is avoided.
it is therefore absolutely necessary to bring them on board so that we can fight climate change together, but according to the common but differentiated principle of the united nations convention.
our first objective should be to consider how to bring on board developed countries, like the united states, which emits 25% of the world's emissions and has not ratified kyoto.
in particular, we must strengthen our emissions trading system, because a market-based instrument like this could be the best way to bring the united states on board.
some states in the usa already have an emissions trading system.
in the northeast there is an emissions trading system regarding power generation.
so the global emissions trading system can be born from the bottom up.
in order to do that we need a strong emissions trading system in the european union, otherwise we cannot argue with them.
if i had accepted all the proposed national allocation plans from the member states, the emissions trading system would have collapsed.
you, the members of the european parliament, with whom we had a lot of discussions about the emissions trading system, should help to persuade those member states which have reservations about the national allocation plans.
i am going to do my job and i shall assess the national allocation plans as is necessary in order to fight climate change.
the means are: firstly, the use of the market a global emissions trading system is necessary?
i am grateful to minister gabriel, because when i announced the adoption by the european union of the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund, he immediately came forward with a significant contribution from germany.
italy followed, and i hope other countries will do so, because this money is necessary in order to transfer technology to developing countries to enable those countries to be energy efficient and to make efforts in order to fight climate change.
i would say that we would save more carbon dioxide with this directive than with the other one, without saying that cars are not important - they are very important, especially for the future.
having a new car fleet in the european union is important for fighting climate change.
today's adoption by the commission of the fuel quality directive is encouraging sustainable fuels for transport, biofuels, and especially encouraging second-generation biofuels, which are friendly to the environment.
we need clean, competitive, affordable cars that will contribute to the fight against climate change.
we must protect consumers, workers, the public at large and, of course, fight climate change, protect our planet and protect our countries.
finally, on davos, it was very interesting because although there were very important issues to be discussed iraq, the middle east and doha a poll revealed that a majority of 57 percent of the participants who were asked said that the number one issue the world faces today is climate change, which means that the politicians who reflect public opinion have now also had responses from business leaders.
the business leaders have joined politicians and public opinion and showed their determination to fight climate change.
many colleagues have said: we have been talking about climate change for many years, but nothing is actually happening.
i believe that the commission has for the first time developed a common strategy for securing energy supplies and protecting the climate.
the first package dealt with the question of energy efficiency.
not only is the european union able to save billions of euros by 2020100 in energy efficiency improvements, which we urgently need for consumers, for investment in research and development and for many other issues on our agenda.
the 20% increase in energy efficiency means the avoidance of 780 million tonnes of co2.
energy efficiency is often not as well suited to large-scale ideological and political discussions as is nuclear energy.
energy efficiency - these are often many small issues that need to be controlled, monitored and pushed back again and again.
but it offers the greatest opportunities, both for the security of energy supply and for climate protection.
secondly, of course, 120 grams of co2 emissions per kilometre in the automotive industry are part of the issue of greater energy efficiency.
i believe that this is absolutely necessary if we are to become more independent of oil and gas imports in this area, to become more independent of international price increases and to make the most important contribution to the long-term reduction of co2 emissions from fuel consumption.
the second major area is renewable energy.
let us not pretend that it is a given in the european union that all member states will accept a common target - as proposed by the commission - of 20% of primary energy consumption in europe to be renewable energy.
unfortunately, mrs grossetête, who asked me to give her an answer on nuclear energy, is no longer in the chamber.
perhaps you could give her the answer: if nuclear energy accounts for 15% of final energy consumption in europe, then it does not make much sense to concentrate on just that 15%.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs.
that is why the focus on renewable energy, as proposed by the commission, is the absolutely right way forward.
of course, we will have to break this down into burden sharing, whereby each country in europe has to take a certain share and thus reach the 20% of primary energy consumption in 2020. let me close by mentioning two areas where we are far from having a real breakthrough.
it is absolutely irrelevant whether the european union decides to go for 30, 20, 40 or 10%, the only chance of getting these countries on board is to make them offers for the use of technologies for their energy supply that guarantee their growth and at the same time do not damage the climate in the way that this used to happen in the industrial countries.
despite the good initiative of the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund, despite the willingness to transfer technology through cdm projects under the umbrella of the kyoto protocol, the offer is far from sufficient.
when we talk about climate change, our partners in the developing world usually interpret this as the old colonialists coming to impede their economic development.
we are still that far from a common understanding of climate change, and it is very difficult to get closer to it.
and yet, we must be willing to give back to the industrialized countries some of the advantages we have had over our former colonies in the last few hundred years, some of the wealth we have accumulated on the basis of the poverty of the former colonial countries, in order to give them answers on how to advance their economic and social development without destroying the climate.
we will need to allocate some of this wealth to finance technology development and transfer as well as the necessary adaptation to climate change that is already taking place.
before they're willing to talk to us about limiting their carbon emissions as part of their growth, they want to see that we're willing to repair the damage that's already been done by climate change in these states and help them adapt to climate change.
who in this room actually believes that 300 million euros is really enough for global climate change adaptation?
they ask us: what are you doing to enable real technology transfers to our countries and thus achieve growth and climate protection at the same time?
and second, what are you doing to finance the climate change adaptation measures that you are responsible for in our countries?
but the united states will participate in a functioning market, a functioning emissions trading system, a functioning climate change.
if we are convinced that climate protection is indeed a human challenge, why are we not succeeding in getting colleagues in national parliaments who are committed to health reform, the labour market, foreign policy and peace policy in parliamentary debates to also commit themselves to climate protection?
it is not enough for environmental policy experts to be convinced; there are others, including those in our member states.
as the german presidency has rightly pointed out, a sound energy and environmental policy is no longer a matter of delay if we are to ensure that our citizens and the eu enjoy healthy and sustainable development over time.
it seems paradoxical, but precisely on the fiftieth anniversary of the european project, and at a time of political deadlock due to the failure of the constitution, the difficulties of enlargement and the alienation of part of the european population, there is an opportunity, with far more appropriate economic, technological and political instruments, to relaunch the process with concrete proposals, reviving and adapting to today's needs the idea that was at the origin of the european process: the pooling of efforts and intentions to achieve adequate energy independence and sustainability.
as was the case 50 years ago, economic development will depend on it, as will the health of our citizens and the environment in which we live.
it is, of course, quite another thing to move from the central challenges of energy or climate protection to a very important topic which has already been discussed by you in the european parliament and by the european union as a whole in the past - and not just once, but repeatedly - the issue of passenger data.
the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs danutė budreikaitė, on behalf of the committee on development, on mainstreaming sustainability into development cooperation policies (2006/2246 (ini)) (a6-0474/2006).
in directive 18, the general procurement directive, as i heard from some of the speeches this morning, parliament has given great consideration to environmental problems, the modernised system of electronic procurement, the social sector, the question of thresholds and i believe that we have legislation which is certainly exceptional, but which in any case does not concern the subject of this morning's debate.
they have led us, so to speak, hand in hand until we have reached a summary by a very large majority in the committee on the environment and have achieved a result that was not obvious at the outset: the commission has also proposed that the commission should make two documents, one on the recycling strategy and the other on the proposal for a revision of the framework directive on waste, which are now more coherent than the original commission documents, consistent.
first of all: i would like to say that the commission has been very positive in emphasizing, more than the commission, the priority of preventing the production of waste, by defining it better and setting a stabilisation target by 2012, with a whole series of concrete accompanying measures.
thirdly: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
it is not possible to contradict the hierarchy by calling energy recovery recovery, which is instead disposal.
this is a direct contradiction of the hierarchy and risks creating undue competition with renewable energies.
i would like to make it clear that there is no ideological objection to incineration and energy recovery, but i also agree with mrs brepoels that it is appropriate to postpone the definition of this subject to a more appropriate forum.
i think that is the most appropriate place to define the problem of energy recovery, and that is why i have tabled an amendment to that effect, namely amendment no 136, which i think is very reasonable.
finally, i too would like to break a spear on the subject of biowaste: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the recycling of waste is not carried out in a way that would be contrary to the interests of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must also provide itself with new instruments to limit the production of waste by promoting reuse, recycling and recovery in order to reduce its negative impact on the environment.
the five-tier hierarchy alone will not prevent this, so we must aim to recycle at least 50% of biodegradable waste, promote separate collection and recycling systems and ensure that reusable or recyclable material is not disposed of in landfills and incinerators.
the amendments tabled by mr jackson, which allow municipal waste incinerators to be classified as recovery plants rather than disposal plants, in fact undermine the application of the five priority levels and open the way to private business in incinerators.
if we really want europe to become the recycling society of the future, we must first focus on prevention by reducing waste production and then prioritising reuse and recycling.
talking about relations with russia means introducing the issue of chechnya and, responsibly, opening a debate on reducing energy dependence, knowing how to harshly criticize those countries - and there are many of them - who run in scattered order to the court of the "tsar" putin.
the second theme -- and i know very well that i will have to work very hard to convince you -- is to make this institution greener, not from a political point of view but from the point of view of its ecological sustainability.
i am absolutely sure that i will be able to convince you, because today, as today, the waste of resources perpetrated by this house in terms of water, electricity and service cars is something that, in order to be faithful to our commitments on climate change, we cannot tolerate.
without a common energy policy there will be no recovery and no development.
we share the commission's new green paper on renewable sources and the improvement of natural gas infrastructure, with a focus on degassing plants, a position also shared by the council presidency.
all obstacles must therefore be removed, including those of the italian minister for the environment, mr pecoraro scanio, who continues to ignore the european positions on the matter and thus hold back development.
development and the environment are the challenges we must meet, including by ratifying a new treaty which defines, in the europe of 27, the new and different powers of our institutions.
commissioner, the wine sector needs a reform that will create conditions for increased competitiveness for european wine, by continuing the restructuring of vineyards to make them more competitive and by promoting the permanence of viticulture at the expense of the territory and the environment.
this measure will result in a massive and uncontrolled abandonment of difficult viticulture, which, in addition to having a productive function, also has a role in environmental and landscape protection.
any reform must therefore take account above all of the undertakings, the workers and the environmental conditions, and it is only by defending and maintaining a european agricultural production system that we can guarantee quality and safety for consumers.
in the final analysis, any reform cannot ignore the climate change that is currently taking place, which will have a serious impact on some areas of southern europe, disrupting their production systems.
all agricultural financing must therefore be kept under the first pillar: training campaigns for responsible consumption should be implemented; maintain, at least for the time being, distillation measures as a safety net for producers; the commission has also proposed that the member states be allowed to restrict the grubbing up of vine varieties on the basis of strict environmental and social criteria, with a preferential approach to the protection of small-scale quality production.
i am not quite sure that you listened carefully to what i said in my introduction, namely that we need to ensure that grubbing-up does not disrupt important and legitimate social and environmental concerns.
i agree with the commission on the importance of simplifying and harmonising legislative measures and strengthening the competitiveness of the european wine sector while ensuring environmental sustainability.
the agenda includes the report by mrs fiona hall, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, 'towards a european radio spectrum policy' (2006/2212 (ini)) (a6-0467/2006)
member of the commission.
first of all, because the inextricable link between economic, social and environmental issues, as has already been said, goes beyond the level of ritual statements and is manifested in concrete terms.
the economic policy guidelines must integrate the social and environmental dimension, in the sense that these are the fundamental features of economic policy.
it is not just a question of combining three equivalent areas in the best possible way, but of being aware that economic development is based on social cohesion and environmental awareness.
secondly, because competitiveness requires compatibility, action is needed in specific areas such as research and development, energy and the environment, with specific objectives in the creation of full and good employment, of guarantee and dignity and security for people at work, attention to the needs of flexibility on both sides of the employment relationship, with instruments not only of conciliation but also of redistribution of roles.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must protect all those who are engaged in the proper and optimal management of fisheries resources and the protection of the marine environment.
the report we are voting on, for which i thank my colleague, marie-hélène aubert, very effectively identifies a number of strategic actions to this end: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
improving the full traceability of fish throughout the conservation chain, from net to plate, avoiding depletion of fisheries resources and environmental degradation, and supporting the quality of life and work of communities that depend on fishing for their livelihoods, are forms of prevention and deterrence that allow, in a structural way, to curb the phenomenon of illegality and that put community fisheries at the forefront in the world.
the report by mr manuel antónio dos santos, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the macroeconomic impact of the increase in energy prices (2006/2247 (ini)) (a6-0001/2007) is on the agenda.
i will personally devote all my energy to ensuring the necessary legal certainty and the development of quality social services, while at the same time being compatible with the principle of subsidiarity.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on the environment, since i was the shadow rapporteur on this measure, which has approved a text on this subject.
this text was supported by the committee on the environment and i think it can also be usefully used in the debate on the measure in general.
first, the energy.
this must include the implementation of the commitments made by states and the identification of areas and means through which further progress can be achieved, as well as further development of the verification system ensuring the exclusively peaceful use of nuclear energy by non-armed and recognised states.
the principle that all possible cooperation in the development of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes must be strengthened on the basis of the treaty must be reaffirmed, and it is in this field that the european union can make a decisive contribution as the leading research and production body.
the international situation requires us to unite our efforts in the field of nonproliferation, disarmament and the peaceful use of atomic energy.
mr president, we acknowledge the german presidency for having been able to lead the council to make commitments on emission reductions and renewable energy, in a visible and quite clear way, rejecting the nuclear offensive of president chirac, a chirac in decline, of whom you can be sure we will not miss at all.
for example, we know now that unilaterally reducing emissions by 20% by 2020 will not achieve the goal of keeping the temperature rise below 2°c.
commissioner verheugen, i do not think this is a very brave effort, because if the commitments on fair efficiency and renewable energy were to be respected, we would already have a 24% reduction in emissions.
so the unilateral target of 30% emissions reduction was perfectly feasible and would have radically increased our credibility internationally.
moreover, commissioner, when i think of your role on the issue of emission reductions, renewable energy and cars and the tremendous struggles within the commission on all these issues, your speech today seemed to me frankly a little green wash. the achievement of these aims faces many adversaries.
first of all the administrations of many national governments - which represent the real bureaucratic burden of the european union, apart from the commission officials - followed of course by the lobbies of the big european industrial companies which, despite the fine words, are absolutely against a real development of eco-efficiency of renewable energies, because enel, eon and edf know very well that reducing dependence on fossil energy means freeing the european consumer more from them too.
that is why we are meeting in berlin and i hope, mr steinmeier, that you will come to see us and draw up a plan with ten ideas, which we have already announced several times, first of all a climate pact with the same characteristics as the stability pact and which provides for clear rules, serious and rapid sanctions and very realistic incentives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commitment to unilaterally reduce carbon emissions by 20% is a step in the right direction, but we should have aimed at the more ambitious target of 30% mandatory by 2020. today renewable energy accounts for just 7% of the eu's energy mix and it is clear that the voluntary target of 12% by 2010 has not worked.
fifty years after the treaty of rome, it is time to relaunch a common energy policy, also to reduce europe's dependence on the outside world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while europe is not only asking questions but is beginning to give concrete answers and to make commitments to energy saving and the adoption of alternative sources and is wondering how to deal with the emergency of climate change, at the heart of europe, a vast and technologically advanced area, decisive for the social and economic future of one of the member states, the po valley, has been needlessly calling for infrastructural measures for some time to solve the problem of pollution caused by the now more than emergency situation of congestion of the communication routes.
and then there's the second aspect of the climate emergency, which is water.
only the union can tackle the big issues of climate change, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, immigration, energy freedom, including the revival of nuclear power, unemployment, the confrontation with the new major economic and commercial powers of east asia, not to mention peace in the mediterranean area and the middle east.
today we do it with energy and fighting climate change.
femip also supports environmental, infrastructure and training projects.
as you know, the big hurdle for emerging market economies is convincing investors that they expect a stable, profitable environment.
in conclusion, i would like to stress that i share your view that uncontrolled economic growth is not the only way forward, but that social and environmental aspects must also be taken into account.
the common area of security and prosperity that the barcelona process aims at cannot be achieved in a sustainable way without effective social dialogue and new jobs.
secondly, a conference on energy efficiency and renewable energies will also be held in berlin on 19 april 2007. a forward-looking energy policy is essential for sustainable economic development and the conservation of resources.
ministers from the eu's southern and eastern neighbours, as well as representatives of industry and international financial institutions, will discuss how to achieve a secure and environmentally friendly energy supply in the euro-med area.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment.
however, we are interdependent in other ways: environmentally, sharing more than 46 000 kilometres of mediterranean coastline, and jointly confronting challenges linked to climate change, water and the depollution of the sea.
we are interdependent with respect to energy, too, thanks to the flows of oil and gas resources that originate in, and transit, the mediterranean.
these include: asymmetry in tariff dismantling; a gradual approach concerning liberalisation – for example, the agriculture sector is starting only now once a reasonable period followed industrial liberalisation; and last but not least, the provision of significant aid in support of economic and structural reforms and of sustainable rural development, earlier through meda, currently through the new enp instrument.
our priority remains to enhance sustainable development and competitiveness in the mediterranean region through the elimination of obstacles to trade and by promoting regional integration, investments, regulatory convergence towards the eu internal market rules, research and innovation and the reinforcement of infrastructure and networks in the region.
we have great respect and appreciation for the work that the commission is doing in negotiating the country-by-country action plans, but we point out that the action plans are only part of this policy and that big problems such as employment, the fight against poverty, the environment and the recovery of the mediterranean as a space not only physical but also environmental, cultural, political and economic, need a wider breath, a multilateral policy and a more important political investment by the european union.
i would like to mention among these the prospect of a gradual integration of the euro-mediterranean energy markets for the implementation of common energy programmes and the development of sustainable energy sources, in a framework of active cooperation which also aims at the security of energy supplies, the diversification of the same energy sources, the promotion of energy efficiency, the development of new technologies, research activities and the development of joint projects in this field.
i have heard the concerns expressed about the length and lack of efficiency of the process and i have heard those who have said that they want environmental concerns better reflected.
i am not sure whether i will ever be able to fashion a set of instruments that will enable us to use trade defence to tackle global warming or bring climate security to the world.
the next item is the report by mr johannes voggenhuber, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the respect for the charter of fundamental rights in the commission's legislative proposals: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2005-02-06) (com (2005) 0269 - c6-0214/2007 -2005/0034/2007).
it was the aspiration of all the institutions to include in the future association agreement issues such as unemployment, security, migration, social development, the environment, sustainable development and therefore political stability.
we are concerned with the protection of human rights, civil and political, economic and social rights, and also, in line with the policies of the european union, with the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems.
parliament has repeatedly highlighted this gap and, although the context of europe's islands is heterogeneous - there are 121 of them, with a population of around 15 million - they share a number of difficulties which constitute a competitive disadvantage: higher prices due to additional transport costs and low competition; difficulty in accessing the single market; need to import raw materials; higher energy costs; infrastructure deficiencies; immigration; limited diversification of economic activities and vulnerability to environmental risks.
we therefore believe that more flexibility is needed to balance the additional costs and, as far as energy is concerned, to compensate for fluctuations in fuel prices.
on the other hand, islands have an advantage in terms of energy production: wind, sun, and sea.
they have a unique potential value, which is why the commission must give priority to projects for renewable energy and energy security.
a community policy for the promotion of island tourism, a quality and origin mark and a thorough analysis in favour of sustainable tourism are needed.
this guideline is an act owed to island communities, recognising their role in european civilization and their role today as a major environmental and economic resource for the union.
the european union must be able to support and enhance these territories, guaranteeing the resources necessary for their harmonious development in accordance with the principle of territorial cohesion, allowing for more flexible application of state aid policies and ensuring effective protection of environmental characteristics.
i very much agree with mr musotto on the need to improve transport links and infrastructure - i am referring to ports and airports - and on the need to compensate for higher costs, especially energy costs, due to their geographical location.
better development of our islands means strengthening infrastructure, improving connectivity, integrated transport and tackling critical water and energy supply issues and nodes.
the aim must be to create favourable conditions for full employment, to attract private investment and, at the same time, to ensure a standard of living and sustainable development that is significantly higher than the present one, including through the promotion and development of alternative energies and new technologies.
in response to mr arnaoutakis, i note that subsidising fuel and energy costs constitutes operating aid.
it must not prop up structurally loss-making activities, particularly those that are very damaging, for example, to our environmental or climate change objectives.
mr smith also mentioned access to the transmission network for renewable energy.
it is indeed vital and that is why the commission takes the view that full structural unbundling of energy markets is the best solution to the problems of concentration and foreclosure of new entrants we have experienced in these markets.
these include lack of infrastructure, higher prices due to additional transport costs, higher energy costs, emigration and immigration.
europe needs institutions that are agile and defined as soon as possible, because today is the day when terrorism is on the horizon and today is the day when we need the ability to identify and carry out our missions immediately - as we stated in the european convention - missions that europe has towards itself and the rest of the world: from energy to water resources, from climate change to reasserting human dignity.
we are also aware of its role and we are grateful to it for this, although i think that all this falls somewhat within its duties, and we are pleased to note that in this case, unlike in other cases, i would like to mention energy, cars, etc., the german presidency has shown a european sense that is certainly up to the task.
that the ahinoi energy policy for many governments means above all bowing down to president putin; the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to prevent it from spreading.
instead, we must change the text and the context and focus on democracy and rights, giving the people and parliaments a voice again, starting with the european parliament, to rewrite a constitution based on the right to citizenship, peace, work and the environment and then submit it to a european referendum in which the people have the last word.
that is why i welcome, madam chancellor, the initiative to open a great debate on three fundamental topics: (a) the environment; (b) the free movement of goods; the african question and its dramas are too often ignored by the west.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the envi committee is obviously concerned about the protection of the environment, but in this particular case we have concentrated on the question of how the environment can be protected also through the rule of the market.
the owners of ships which are alleged to have committed serious misconduct - on the scale of misconduct, one degree below inexcusable misconduct - causing major pollution, should no longer be able to benefit from this privilege of limitation of liability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, full compliance by the member states with international instruments could solve problems which, as we know, are of an economic and social nature and concern environmental protection.
i therefore believe that the 2009 deadline cannot be extended and that a sustainable solution should perhaps be found in less time.
the energy challenge and the various geopolitical instabilities which exist today, some of which are on our borders, cannot be separated from a europe which speaks with one voice and firmness at the un and in all other international forums.
i am open to new ideas, especially with regard to the need for new delivery mechanisms to improve the responsiveness of cohesion policy to a rapidly changing environment and the need for new ways of achieving further synergies between development strategies implemented at community, national and regional level.
we must ensure that our cohesion policy ties in with this favourable sustainable national growth policy, the lisbon strategy and the integrated guidelines for growth and jobs.
the third is climate change.
to ensure its sustainability, the safety and environmental performance of this sector must be continuously improved.
however, there is no doubt that both legislators want to improve maritime safety and prevent environmental disasters.
the crucial point in this respect is the independence of decision-making, a condition for speed and, therefore, a condition for a dangerous situation not to turn into an environmental disaster affecting several states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, maritime safety, which is the subject of five directives which parliament is called upon to adopt, forms the package of measures which is praiseworthy in that it aims at better prevention and more efficient response to maritime accidents and at managing their environmental impact.
in conclusion, i welcome all the steps towards a continental policy on the sea and safety in terms of human, environmental and economic resources, all those which promote the improvement and harmonization of the performance of maritime administrations, and the promotion of registration under the union flag.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council's common position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the assessment and management of flood risks (12131/6/2006 - c6-0038/2007 - 2006/0005 (cod)) (rapporteur: richard seeber) (a6-0064/2007).
this is a directive which i consider very important also in the context of other directives such as the water directive, the waste directive and the soil directive which is about to be discussed.
these directives form a very important framework for prevention, particularly with regard to climate change, a phenomenon which is caused by global warming and which consists essentially of an increase in the severity of extreme events, such as an increase in the intensity of rainfall.
the agenda includes the report by mrs kartika tamara liotard, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources (2006/2210 (ini)) (a6-0054/2007).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the german presidency has brought an improved climate to transatlantic relations and a very strong commitment to combating terrorism.
that is why relations with the world's most important democracy must be at the heart of european policy, from the fight against terrorism and security to the fight against drug trafficking, from the pursuit of energy freedom to the question of climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of sustainable public finances in the countries of the union is essential not as an end in itself but as a means of achieving the european social model, which is characterised by research, investment, innovation and competitiveness, social cohesion and environmental and energy sustainability.
the verification of the reduction of the deficit and the public debt must take place taking into account rigorous choices, but also proactive choices of sustainable economic and social development.
in conclusion, i think it is important to reiterate what the role we want is, namely to lay the foundations for a sustainable european public finance system geared to growth.
it should also be noted that a large number of european policies - energy, environment, transport, security, cultural and social - have a strong, albeit indirect, impact on the quality of housing.
the approach i have taken to the own-initiative report is therefore a global one, considering housing choices within a more general policy of sustainable urban development, strongly linked to the sectoral and horizontal policies i have just mentioned.
the report was therefore built around two main dimensions: the social dimension, which concerns the link between housing conditions, urban decay and social exclusion, and the environmental dimension, which concerns problems ranging from energy waste to the insecurity of buildings, from the quality of common areas to the protection of water and seismic risks.
i would like parliament to reflect on these issues, such as energy, which mr hatzidakis has mentioned, and the problems of social exclusion, ghettoization and spatial segregation.
i would like to draw attention to a subject which i think is particularly relevant today, since we shall be discussing environmental issues all afternoon: the environment.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mrs anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy and amending directive 2000/60/ec (com (2006) 0397 - c6-0243/2006 - 2006/0129 (cod)) (a6-0125/2007).
it is also important that these standards are periodically adapted to the constant evolution of business practices and the production system, as in recent cases of relocation, in order to safeguard both the quality and quantity of work in the union, as well as the respect of social and environmental standards in non-european countries.
as a member of the committee on development i feel obliged to remind you that flexibility and gradual progress are necessary for those developing countries which are committed to ensuring the basic needs of their populations before they are fully open to the market: equal access to clean water, to education, to efficient sanitation systems, for example, are essential prerequisites for further sustainable economic development.
the socio-environmental impact of the indiscriminate opening of local markets to international investment, mainly in the natural resources and land sector itself, would add negatively to the lack of real economic returns for the people of those countries: the only advantage would be for the big multinational companies of europe!
we would very much like a harmonious, innovative and truly sustainable and united europe, the europe of 27 is a great achievement.
we need a clear environmental right, which requires innovative policies based on cooperation, multipolar visions such as those which must lead to the ratification of the post-kyoto agreement and not the mere logic of commercial competition!
faced with such phenomena as relocation, the depletion of water resources, global energy shortages and climate change, individual states are helpless, unable to formulate winning strategies.
it is important that europe is at the forefront of the world, both politically, as a reference point for inclusive social policies, for a policy of welcoming people that is a model for the rest of the world, and on the technological choices and assumptions for the future, particularly in the field of sustainable energy.
five members of the main political groups in the european parliament have signed a written declaration on the need for europe to embark on a new path on the hydrogen economy: a real industrial, technological and social revolution, sustainable in the long term.
as we all know, the funding for the tens has been considerably reduced compared with the initial forecasts: the 2007-13 programming set the funding for the tens at eur 8 billion, a sharp reduction from the eur 20 billion initially requested by the commission, while doubling the available funds over the period 2000-2006. we have accepted this penalty and have moved forward with the forces that have been made available to us, pursuing throughout the long negotiations four fundamental objectives: (1) simplification, to make the procedure easier; 2) cross-compliance, in order to favour modes of transport with a lower environmental impact; (3) selectivity and concentration, to encourage the concentration of resources on projects with high community added value; (4) proportionality, in order to diversify the maximum amount of community resources available depending on the type of project to be financed.
we are not solving transport problems by building most of the transport corridors, and we are even less solving the problems related to energy and climate change.
we must demand that a dialogue, a dialogue, a dialogue be opened up between the nigerian government and the representatives of the local population, and that pressure be brought not only on the government but also on the big european companies which are operating in that area without respect for human rights and environmental rights.
and that's just a figure, because to that we add human trafficking, arms, waste, counterfeiting of products and all these profits are immediately recycled and put on the legal market.
the latter include the smuggling of arms and waste (including radioactive waste), drug trafficking, the sexual exploitation of women and children, trafficking in human tissue (the cases discovered and reported a few days ago in ukraine are of dramatic actuality), the racket of animals and works of art.
the first: this reform, which is so important for a sector which employs thousands, if not millions, of workers in both agriculture and processing, can completely change the picture once we have climate change directives.
for example, you have mentioned the issue of climate change, but from my various interviews and conversations it seems to me that it will be a kind of cosmetic touch-up.
when mrs wallström was environment commissioner, she put forward a very clever and interesting proposal for a protocol on sustainability.
let us take it seriously and let us make sure that the debate on climate change actually translates into more power and more money for the european union in this text, instead of deceiving the european citizens on the subject with some kind of cosmetic chatter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the g8 has been a resounding failure in the fight against poverty and global warming.
on the global warming front, a failure to act has been hailed as a success.
the result of three days of meetings, costing €120 million, was the referral to the un of a possible agreement on limiting the quantities of carbon dioxide to be emitted into the atmosphere.
the agenda includes the report by mr dimitrios papadimoulis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the prohibition of the export and safe storage of metallic mercury (com (2006) 0636 c6-0363/2006 2006/0206 cod)) (a6-0227/2007).
the debate on the report by zuzana roithová on consumer confidence in the digital environment continues.
the digital environment is, in many ways, still new to many citizens.
the rapid development of new technologies also renders consumer relationships with product and service providers in the digital environment much more complex.
i would like to thank you for the progress made towards enhancing consumer confidence in the digital environment.
it is obvious, that in a climate of human insecurity and ongoing armed conflict in a few border areas, there is little space for respect for human rights.
the commission has also been very active in the field of the environment, and has been very active in the field of the environment.
in fact, in italy - and i challenge my italian liberal colleagues to prove otherwise - the liberalization of the various sectors, from insurance to energy, railways and the postal service itself, has resulted in higher costs and greater difficulties in the use of services.
it is therefore essential that, in the face of a full opening up of the market, the sustainability of the universal postal service be ensured by appropriate measures for its financing.
sustainable development also requires changes in the organisation of work and the use of time.
the piecyk report, for which i congratulate my colleague, makes an important contribution in this respect: i particularly agree with the emphasis on environmental aspects.
coastal areas are particularly vulnerable, where the effects of climate change and intensive resource exploitation are most evident.
finally, special attention should be paid to islands, which, because of their attractiveness and natural characteristics, constitute a valuable resource in terms of sustainability and competitiveness for european maritime policy.
the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 july 2007.
the agenda includes the report by etelka barsi-pataky, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on 'for a europe on the move - sustainable mobility for our continent' (2006/2227 (ini)) (a6-0190/2007)
on behalf of the alde group.
i had the misfortune, so to speak, of arriving just a moment before the obvious shift in priorities that has taken place in recent weeks, with the prospective inclusion of the fight against climate change in the union's activities and a direct take up of the issue of energy costs.
this means working to use other fuels or the same fuels with more efficient engines, trying to organise more efficient journeys through logistics but also and above all giving back criteria and logic to the need to insist on better exploitation of the most energy- and climate-efficient modes of transport and also in organising our lives in such a way as to reduce our unnecessary demand for mobility.
time is getting more urgent: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the title of the report is very good: 'for a mobile europe' 'sustainable mobility for our continent'.
the report clearly states that the negative effects of climate change have increased, not least because of wrong transport policies.
it's also sustainable, but it's negatively sustainable.
this will not achieve the kyoto targets, and the intention to halve co2 emissions by 2050 remains an illusion.
the allocation of all costs of construction, maintenance, repair of damage to the environment and health or of accidents to transport prices, and a sustainable taxation of transport based on co2 emissions, including and especially in air transport.
the lack of adequate protection of human rights and of environmental, social and safety standards must be addressed.
as regards the intergovernmental conference, there must be no tolerance for those who want to reverse the agreements reached, while finding room for improvement, for example in the field of climate change, and seek to promote and allow the opening up of the intergovernmental conference to the european parliament and public debate.
on the lisbon strategy, we think that we will not make any progress if, in the next six months, we are not able, together with the commission and parliament, to strengthen the climate change agenda, because the latter cannot be separated from the lisbon agenda.
we therefore want to relaunch and ask you to take into consideration the idea of a climate and energy security pact, based on the objective of limiting the temperature increase to 2°c compared with the pre-industrial level and its instruments including sanctioning mechanisms, exactly like the stability pact.
the question of energy saving; transport, which remained incredibly outside the agreements of last spring and responsible for 30% of emissions; the commission has not yet done anything, unfortunately, with regard to the renewable energies, especially with regard to the directive on heating and cooling.
the question of renewable energy enables me, mr president, to bring to your attention the question of agrofuels and relations with brazil.
we are preoccupied: the mystical vision and miraculous meaning given by president lula to agrofuels, as the new "green gold" not so popular; we are not at all pleased that the issues of deforestation, illegal timber imports, food security and the european contribution to the development of innovative renewable energy technologies have been excluded from the agenda.
alongside institutional reform, without which the european union will not have its proper role in the world, and the challenge of competitiveness in the framework of the lisbon strategy, i hope that the portuguese presidency will be able to tackle with vigour what, as i have already stressed on several occasions, represents the main impasse to be overcome, namely energy independence and the challenge of combating climate change.
energy will be both the business and the problem of the future, given the warning about the imminent exhaustion of non-renewable sources and the commitments of the kyoto protocol.
we are therefore trying to concentrate our attention, energy and resources on what we already have, nuclear energy, and on what we can have, renewable energy, by promoting research, co-financing by the member states and the private sector, by intervening in taxation, by reforming the transport sector, by recalling european experts who have fled abroad for lack of opportunities.
for that, the objective of eu accession should not become a party political football: all parties should be united in pursuing this objective and fostering a political climate conducive to the successful adoption of the necessary reforms.
the union proposes and implements its economic, environmental and social policies on the basis of this information and therefore the need for it to be as relevant as possible to reality, reflecting ideal situations as well as the concrete needs of citizens.
as far as the alde group is concerned, i would like to reiterate in this house our strong general approval of the commission's proposal, knowing that it touches on important issues and themes such as prosperity, competitiveness, growth, solidarity, economic and social cohesion, sustainable development, security and the further enlargement of the european union.
i would like to take up the last part of mr schulz's speech, namely the importance of prevention, which i consider to be the main and priority task, particularly in relation to climate change - i would like us to be convinced that it is a reality and not a slogan.
in all honesty, in order to give meaning and effectiveness to our proposals and demands, we must first of all make it clear that in most cases these are not tragic accidents but real criminal acts, crimes against the environment, people, society as a whole and its future, carried out for speculative purposes.
the agenda for the joint debate is the following: - report by katalin lévai, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the better regulation programme in the european union (2007/2095 (ini)) (a6-0273/2007); - report by bert doorn, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on better regulation 2005: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality - xiii annual report (2006/2279 (ini) (a6-280/2007); the report by giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the strategy for simplifying the regulatory environment (2007/2096 (ini) (a6-0271/2007); and the report by manuel medina ortega, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the legal and institutional implications of the use of soft law (2028/2028 (ini)) (a6-0259/2007).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in november 2006 the european commission adopted a working document, a first progress report on the strategy for simplifying the regulatory environment, followed by a further communication in october 2005. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the study of the damage caused by alcohol abuse has brought out a most dismal and disturbing picture: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy.
i'm not doing this out of a lack of courtesy, but out of respect for your time, because i don't want to waste it.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
climate change is accelerating processes that are already affecting very weak areas such as africa, but it is not sparing our continent either.
the fight against desertification must also be a guiding principle for climate finance policies.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
that is why we cannot oppose, as some of the european people's party are doing in this parliament, but we must support the framework directive on soil proposed by the commission, which provides that it is an integral part of climate policies.
a european economic, social and energy policy that would make the eu more autonomous in terms of human and energy resources would also help europe to get rid of some of the geopolitical constraints that in some situations force it to be silent on human rights.
we greens are very happy to support the content of this motion because it is very justified from a social and human rights point of view, but i think that the environmental disaster caused by this military regime should also have been emphasized a little more.
renewable energy has always been high on the agenda of the european parliament, and now member states are also increasingly aware of the need to strengthen their performance in this field.
constantly increasing the use of renewable energy resources is one of the main pillars in european policy to achieve sustainable, competitive and secure energy supplies.
therefore, ms thomsen’s report will play a crucial role in the formulation of the commission’s proposal for promotion of the use of renewable energy that i intend to present to the college by the end of this year.
i would just remind you that mr vidal-quadras’s report played a huge role in the formulation of our package on the internal energy market.
i would like to mention that the proposal will be adopted together with the greenhouse gas reduction and emission trading scheme proposals.
we will continue the integrated approach from the january package to ensure consistency between renewable energy and climate change policies, and create synergies between them.
i share your view that the completion of the internal energy market is a very important issue in our energy policy, and it is indispensable that renewables are rapidly integrated into the internal energy market.
access to the grids is an essential precondition for the successful integration and expansion of electricity generation from renewable energy sources, as well as objective, transparent and non-discriminatory authorisation procedures.
this will also contribute to our goal of producing renewable energy cost effectively.
i agree that renewable energy sources in the heating and cooling sector have to experience a significant growth, and this has to be ensured by the legislative framework.
many heating and cooling renewable technologies are highly economical and there is a lot of potential in this area.
i agree with you that we have to ensure that biofuels are produced in a sustainable way.
the commission will include measures on biofuel sustainability in its proposal.
to sum up, the new legislative framework on renewable energy sources should ensure that we reach the eu-wide target of 20% by 2020. this will require serious investments to be made, a regulatory framework and, most of all, strong political will.
there have been doubts expressed that the commission intends to let nuclear energy count towards the renewables target.
the 20% target of the renewable energy in the final eu energy consumption will only be met by renewable energy.
nothing in the internal market package adopted last week, or the forthcoming directive on renewable energy, changes this.
honourable members, you have been our strong support in creating a european response to the global energy challenge.
today, gordon brown, at the labour party conference, said, ‘by investing in energy efficiency, renewables, carbon capture, clean fuels and new environmental technologies, i want britain to lead in carbon-free vehicles, carbon-free homes and carbon-free industry.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
in this respect, i believe that parliament has already made a fundamental contribution to the promotion of renewable energy, with a vision of the future and the use of renewable energy precisely to tackle the major problems that lie ahead.
so, an effort of this magnitude must have a general consensus and we can start with a certain degree of gradualness, because i think that we need a system policy to be able to apply the different renewable energies to the system as a whole.
first of all, i would like to point out that the envi committee also had a very thorough discussion on biomass and the importance of a gradual approach, first of all in the use of agricultural, forestry and municipal solid waste, because they can be exploited to a great advantage without upsetting the balance between energy, food and raw materials.
the system will also have to lead to a general improvement, i am referring here in particular to heating, cogeneration and trigeneration, in order to achieve full exploitation of the energy content of resources, and to a whole policy which will be necessary to support and give priority to the supply of electricity produced from renewable sources, and so that the conversion of biomass to gas can also be encouraged, so as to allow for much greater rationalizations and efficiencies.
i believe that customs barriers must be lifted because the union must not only defend consumers, not only its industry, not only assert free competition through equal opportunities for market access, but also take action for social and environmental reasons against the highly speculative production of chinese industry.
we cannot ask china to respect labour rights and environmental standards, as is necessary, and then actually prevent this from happening through the responsibility of our multinationals.
i have expressed my support for the thomsen report which stresses the need to obtain 20% of energy from renewable sources by 2020. this will be a great challenge for every european country, which can no longer be avoided and left to the most virtuous and farsighted member states.
i believe that differentiated national targets should be set, equitably distributed in relation to the existing level of renewable energy, with regard to the energy mix and the different development potential due to the different climatic, geological and territorial conditions of the member states.
renewable energy is the future.
the investment in innovation and technology will have to be massive if europe is to overcome its energy dependence within a reasonable timeframe and at affordable prices for the consumer.
it is unrealistic to think that renewable energy production alone will enable us to achieve such ambitious targets, despite the preconceptions and often ideological arguments of certain leftists and greens who would have us believe otherwise.
what can save europe in the medium term is an energy mix that also includes non-purely renewable energy sources such as nuclear, which, whether we like it or not, accounts for a third of electricity production in europe.
i would like to ask you not to waste the little bit of spirit we have managed to put into a europe still too marked by economism, mercantilism and monetarism.
the agenda includes the report by mr jacek saryusz-wolski, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a common european energy policy (2007/2000) (a6-0312/2007).
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the depletion of fossil fuels and the changes in the geopolitical situation have put energy security at the top of the political agenda of the european union.
the european union's growing dependence on external energy supplies, mainly from unstable countries, raises concerns for the economic and political interests of the member states as well as for the overall security of the union.
however, i do not believe that we can meet these challenges and difficulties by increasing production and supply from abroad alone, but rather we must look within europe for the answer to energy demand.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
as energy production and consumption are the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions, an integrated approach to environment and energy is needed to achieve the objectives of a sustainable energy policy.
the fight against climate change must not therefore be confined to environmental policies, but must be at the heart of the european union's policies, both internal and trade.
that is why the proposal for an energy partnership with africa is important, to which must be added a similar partnership with china and india, given the growth of these countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur i share the need and the importance of aligning foreign policy on energy policy.
however, the priority must not be limited to security of supply, but must also be to a sustainable and efficient energy policy, which will make europe progressively self-sufficient in this area and thus independent of external pressures which can affect, sometimes severely, the eu's commitment to promoting democracy, human rights and peace.
an efficient common policy cannot do without more resources for research into renewable energy sources as well as investment in nuclear energy.
if we also have the political will, we can turn europe's energy emergency into a unique opportunity: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
the point is not just that we have had a change in climate and that in some areas of the country we have had difficulties in production.
i think that the commissioner and the commission must give careful thought to this and enable parliament to give a definitive answer to these problems in order to avoid what is happening: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of food waste.
this is something that is particularly close to my heart, and i have already said that the idea of circular immigration is aimed at this: to avoid permanently draining energy.
the causes, as you know, are many: wars, poverty, environmental disasters, brutal dictatorships in many parts of the world.
but from the left, we hear a sophisticated, surprising, statement from someone as intelligent as you: the european union is committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
i also note, however, a disparity in treatment, a disparity between one group and another; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities for the protection of the environment.
but, as on so many other occasions, it lacks the capacity to say clearly that if there is to be free competition, it is essential that there be equal conditions for cabotage and respect for social and environmental standards.
the report also recognised that the aviation sector produces many negative effects that contribute to climate change.
i do not understand why my colleagues did not support the amendment i tabled on the negative impact of compounds in engine exhaust fumes, which is likely to increase with the growth of the sector, and therefore did not support the inclusion of aviation in the european emissions trading system.
all of us, at least the majority of us in this chamber, believe that europe is the solution to the fears of globalisation, not the cause, that we are stronger if we tackle immigration, climate change, innovation, research together.
the sector, on the other hand, is affected by geographical and environmental differences, which must be taken into account.
in the current unfavourable economic climate, it is up to the european union and the member states to take action to enable consumers to maintain their purchasing power in the food sector and at the same time to protect the right of our farmers to income.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just a few brief remarks on the new generation of nuclear power: it is worth recalling that in italy the nuclear power stations were closed following a referendum to abrogate them in 1987, perhaps rightly so, although this has gradually led to a situation of dependence on foreign energy sources.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the energy efficiency of the community's electricity supply.
it should therefore be included in the energy mix which, together with renewables, clean coal and gas, should enable europe to limit its dependence in the future.
i therefore voted in favour of the creation of fourth generation nuclear power stations, which will make it possible to produce energy in a safer and more environmentally friendly way.
i have serious doubts and misgivings about the storage of nuclear waste.
if the report considers that the problem of waste storage has been solved, i do not think it is.
the waste problem is a crucial one and, to be solved in the short term, requires massive investment in research.
in conclusion, i believe that the choice of the energy mix - three seconds more please - which will guarantee the security of the european union's energy supply in the years to come must be modulated in line with the evolution of research and in particular the development of new technologies.
the serbian government must also be re-committed to a climate of peaceful coexistence between all ethnic groups in the territory.
from this point of view, an acceleration of serbia's accession to the european union would also ensure the stabilization of the area in the face of illicit trafficking in all possible and imaginable sectors that are raging throughout the balkan area, starting with the environmental sector.
we must demand that serbia soon embark on a serious environmental policy in the energy sector, in the water treatment sector, in the integrated waste recycling sector, to prevent organised crime from getting its hands on this sector too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the work of mrs martens and the political will of the eu and the african union to build a common strategy on the many issues of concern to both communities: the european union is a major player in the world economy, from security to the environment, from migration to development and the promotion of human rights and democracy.
for this strategy to be truly effective, it is important that the eu builds this partnership from the outset, with the real involvement of civil society and local parliaments, and promotes strong and concrete actions to defend human rights and freedom of expression and association and the principle of democracy, so that the economic and social development of the african continent can be truly sustainable and involve all layers of african society.
mr president, as is well known, european leaders have decided to send a strong signal to the international community of their determination to fight climate change by making the following commitments with a view to promoting negotiations on a comprehensive agreement for the period after 2012. pending such agreement, the european union makes a firm and independent commitment to achieve by 2020 a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to at least 20% compared to 1990 levels and, secondly, the european union is willing to commit to a 30% reduction if other developed countries make comparable reductions and if more economically advanced developing countries also make an appropriate contribution.
an ambitious target will undoubtedly also strengthen the global carbon market, the continuation of which is essential to limit the costs of reducing emissions.
several measures have already been implemented in the context of the european climate change programme and others are planned in the context of the strategic review of the european union's energy policy in order to achieve a significant part of the greenhouse gas reduction target.
the emissions trading scheme will play a central role in meeting the european union's long-term objectives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and its analysis will be of key importance for the achievement of the european union's overall targets.
and i think, personally, it's my personal view, that the fact that mr. al gore has received the nobel peace prize on climate change issues has a lot to do with this, has a lot to do with our ambitious policy, with our willingness to change, to get others to commit to our goals, of course, within the framework of multilateral diplomacy centered very significantly on the united nations.
obviously there's still a lot that can be done, but i think that more and more the process of making people aware of the issue of climate change is more and more obvious and more obvious, because it's seen every day, it's real, people feel it.
i can tell you from my own experience, if it is worth anything, that the climate in portugal when i was 6 or 7 years old is not the same as today when i am 50 years old.
on the other hand, we also have to adopt the necessary legislation at member state level to encourage, stop or minimise the causes of climate change.
i too would like to condemn the recent statements by commissioner frattini, who in the interviews already mentioned confused his role as commission representative with that of opposition figure, stealing the job from mr tajani, when he would have done well to use his prestigious position to calm the national political climate.
we have seen a climate of witch-hunting against romanian and roma citizens in italy, with punitive expeditions: even children in schools have been the object of ridicule and abuse.
the joint debate is scheduled for: the report by cristina gutiérrez-cortines, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a framework for the protection of soil and amending directive 2004/35/ec (com (((2006) 0232 - c6-0307/2006 - 2006/0086 (((cod)) (a6-0410/2007); and the report by vittorio prodi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the thematic strategy for soil protection (2006/2293 (((ini)) (a6-0411/2007)
however, the debate is closed, i am sorry, but that is not possible.
the directive under discussion today was designed to protect european soil from phenomena such as desertification, erosion and salinization, which are increasingly linked to climate change and specific soil pollution.
paradoxically, despite the many regulations on the use and release of pollutants into the environment, there has been no directive to date which provides for any kind of obligation to take responsibility for identifying and certifying severely polluted soils and then proceeding to remediate them.
we are talking about protecting human health alongside the environment.
but there is another consideration for a community approach and soil protection and that is the challenge of climate change, a challenge for all of europe.
this maintenance of the site will also allow for the further exploitation of renewable energy, hydraulics and biomass.
and we must not forget the appearance of the soil, which is the balance of greenhouse gases.
i would ask you to think, when you vote on wednesday, of the need, now more than ever, for a strategy and a directive which can guarantee future generations the use, the use and the enjoyment of the same land we now have, each in its own member state, but all subject to the same environmental threats and risks.
the framework directives on the major natural elements are being supplemented, and soil is being considered as a key element of the biosphere, a fundamental element of environmental and climatic balances.
soil is alive, it absorbs co2, it produces biomass: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the agenda includes the report by peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2003/87/ec to include aviation activities in the community scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading (com ((2006) 0818 - c6-0011/2007 - 2006/0304 (cod)) (a6-0402/2007)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is one of the most serious problems we face.
if we want to secure our future, we cannot ignore the environmental issue any longer and we must be prepared to change our lifestyles, particularly in terms of mobility.
transport is one of the sectors that contributes most to energy consumption and is the one that is most affected by the use of fossil fuels.
in 2004, greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft and attributable to the community increased by 87% compared with 1990. europe is responsible for about half of the co2 emissions from aviation.
this is no longer sustainable and serious action is therefore needed, for example by abolishing the tax benefits in this sector.
i believe that the commission's proposal for a directive on aviation emission allowances is an indispensable tool for tackling the problems of climate change in a consistent way and we very much welcome the envi report which strengthens the original directive.
however, it is important to stress that there are some qualifying points which must be retained in the debate and the vote tomorrow, and i think that the community emissions trading system for all flights, both those arriving and those leaving the union, is important among them, and this cannot be postponed beyond 2010. it is also important that a significant proportion of allowances should be auctioned and the proceeds of such sales should be used to subsidize cleaner transport, for example by taxing environmentally friendly transport, so as to create low-cost tourism using less polluting systems such as the train.
i hope that tomorrow the house will not dismantle the advanced compromise which will enable europe to become a leader in the fight against climate change.
frankly, we would expect a greater centrality in the european agenda, in the relations between the european union and this important continent which is so decisive for choices that affect the environment and also other policies such as trade and energy.
the other big issue where i thank you for your detailed comments has to do with energy.
just to repeat what is in our proposal: in the energy package are four different initiatives.
you have touched upon that because it is a policy paper concentrating on the internal energy market, on security of supply and technological developments.
there will be a complete review of the directive on the energy performance of buildings; this was a particular question during this debate.
there will also be a review of the energy taxation directive, as taxation can be used to favour environmentally-friendly consumption.
we must ensure maximum rules in economic freedom against monopolies, for the transparency of financial markets, to make environmental pollution pay.
our shared objective is to limit global warming to two degrees below the level of the industrial era, and we know that this is already a high-risk threshold, so much so that it will still be necessary for some parts of the world, for some parts of europe, to adopt an adaptation policy, as has been planned.
we know that the european union's share of responsibility is limited (14% of global greenhouse gas emissions).
we need technology transfer, cooperation, a new approach to the environment and development.
i am talking about the calculation of emissions per capita, which we proposed together with mr vittorio prodi, and which is very important in the face of the reality that we are told that there is an inequality in emissions today and that they must all be reduced in an equal way.
global warming is an urgent, very serious, truly global problem and one that urgently requires a global consensus.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat the effects of climate change, such as the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, and the introduction of a new energy tax.
in recognizing that everyone has an equal right to behave and to have access to natural resources, it is important that parliament should support this process, which could channel to the developing peoples, through the emissions trading mechanism, a quantity of resources that is much greater than that of international cooperation and more controllable.
the commission has also made a commitment to respect carbon stocks, such as equatorial forests.
we share your key messages concerning the positive economic interdependence, the importance of our energy relations, the field of science, people-to-people relations and the need to deepen and strengthen our economic relations.
let me also state that increasing trade flows is not a threat for sustainable development.
on the other hand, it encourages sustainable development through the adoption of eu standards.
all the states involved in this fishery have agreed to the need for urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the bluefin tuna stock and of the fishery.
i am sure that we are in agreement on the objectives of urgently taking measures to eliminate overfishing and to ensure strict compliance with iccat measures, in order to bring the bluefin tuna stock to sustainable levels.
i recognise that we are asking the industry to make considerable sacrifices, but these are necessary to ensure the long-term sustainability of the fisheries, fleets and coastal communities concerned.
iccat has now adopted a strict regulation in order to ensure the sustainable development of farming activities for bluefin tuna.
to encourage member states to comply with their obligations to submit data and information to the commission, by ending national fishing activities when member states do not provide catch data; to develop a plan for the rehabilitation of atlantic bluefin tuna and the recovery of discontinued tuna in the mediterranean in order to preserve a sustainable and highly selective tuna fishery; provide for financial compensation from the european fisheries fund to be paid to seafarers during periods of fishing closure in order to safeguard and protect the socioeconomic balance of fisheries undertakings and workers; harmonise the sanctioning measures in order to avoid differences between the different member states in the implementation of this regulation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the agenda includes the commission statement on 'towards an eu response to situations of fragility: intervention in difficult circumstances for sustainable development, stability and peace'.
to really fight poverty and enable all eu citizens to live in dignity and justice, we need more than just the economy, the market and competition; we need a social, equitable, ecological single market for all people.
president, you spoke little about the issue of climate change, although it was only yesterday that we heard about the idea of a new contract between man - and i imagine also between man and woman - and the planet, and you also spoke a lot about gratitude for european aid.
let us hope that with the electoral commitments - there is nothing wrong with doing a little electoral campaigning here too - that you have made on climate change spain will definitely change course, and let us also hope that your fantastic minister for the environment will have a lot more room for manoeuvre in her government than she has today.
the commission has launched this initiative for two main reasons: firstly, to facilitate the free movement of trains within the union by making the procedure for putting locomotives into service more transparent and efficient; secondly, to simplify the regulatory environment by consolidating and merging the three directives on railway interoperability into one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, in order to achieve interoperable rail networks and to ensure a high level of sustainable mobility of citizens and interconnection between the regions of the union, the simplification of the current regulatory framework, as pursued in the costa and ortuondo larrea reports, is certainly to be welcomed.
i therefore believe that 2007 will continue to be a good year for rail transport and, consequently, for the fight against global warming, for which we know that the railway is particularly suitable.
in short, i think we can say that, while we all recognise that tourism is one of the industries with the greatest prospects for europe, that it is useful above all for the cohesion objectives it is able to maintain, for the enhancement of resources such as cultural resources and environmental resources it can pursue, this great objective of the growth of the tourist economy can be pursued not only with the formal competences that the union has, but also through all of them.
i thank mr paolo costa and welcome the points in this report which emphasize social and environmental sustainability.
mobility is a prerequisite for tourism, soft forms by public transport, by bicycle or on foot promote growth without destroying the foundations of a healthy and sustainable tourism economy.
in this respect, just two of the many examples of innovation in the costa report are: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
what is missing, so far, is a clear and comprehensive plan by the community institutions: the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
our wine-growing industry needs new impetus, new life, new energy, new proposals, and he is right when he says that if we want to remain competitive, if we want to remain the world leaders in the sector, we must invest in the wine sector and we cannot fail to look at the market, we cannot fail to produce for the market, we cannot fail to penetrate the market with excellent products.
this reform, while creating conditions for greater competitiveness, must be consistent with the past and promote the permanence of viticulture at the expense of the territory and the environment.
it is in the name of quality that we have improved the commission's proposal on certain points, such as the eradication of the period and ecological constraints, and the liberalization of planting rights with the precautions which were also mentioned in the debate.
given that half the surface of the european union is used for agriculture, i believe that conditionality is one of the most important political signals in terms of the explicit will to confirm support for the agricultural sector, making such support conditional on respect for environmental issues.
i would like to emphasize the communication aspect of this measure to the consumer public, considering it a very important way of raising awareness of a topical issue such as environmental protection.
by introducing new topics such as climate change, bioenergy, water resources and risk management, the commission has shown that it wants to take some steps forward, although the way conditionality is dealt with still remains somewhat ambiguous, if it merely indicates a generic need for simplification without clarifying objectives and modalities of application.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
and indeed, if the logic were only that of the relationship between nations, a mediterranean union might make sense to regulate the problems of the economy, of trade, of the environment.
mr president, i am voting against this report, not so much because of the general approach of mr castiglione, but because it also contains some positive points, such as the quantitative limits and environmental compatibility of the grubbing-up, the ban on the use of extra-european must and the extension of the measures which can be managed independently by the member states.
mr weber is right: there is right-wing extremism and left-wing extremism, but there is not only right-wing extremism and left-wing extremism, there is neoliberal extremism, catholic extremism, muslim extremism, environmental extremism, anarchist-insurrectionary extremism.
particular mention should be made of the environmental question: the previous constitution defined montenegro as an ecological republic, the first in the world to have given itself this label.
the country receives a large income from tourism, but unfortunately tourism itself is at risk of backfiring on the environment, as the accommodation facilities are not equipped with systems suitable to manage, from an ecological point of view, the large influx of tourists.
that is why we asked commissioner rehn at another time to direct the commission's attention to promoting environmental policies, particularly with regard to renewable energy sources, waste and water management and coastal protection.
we call on the council and the commission to follow the situation in the black sea closely and to take concrete action to help reduce the ecological impact of the disaster.
europe is not yet ready to prevent the recurrence of very serious accidents such as that which occurred in the black sea, with the full range of necessary rules, which must include, among other things, the responsibility of the states for the safety of the ships they fly in prosecuting those responsible for these environmental disasters in civil proceedings.
the package, which consists of seven reports, is directed in one direction: it increases maritime safety standards, protects passengers and reduces environmental damage in the event of accidents, and provides for obligations and liability for states, carriers and shipowners.
this is why the european parliament believes that all seven proposals must be put forward positively and as soon as possible, before another environmental disaster with human losses takes place: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the establishment of a common system of classification, to require states to control the ships they flag, to carry out inspections of ships in ports and to monitor their movements, to provide for procedures for responding to accidents and to verify and manage liability both to third parties and to passengers.
the most important starting point is that in the vast majority of cases the maintenance creditor is the weak party and must therefore be protected with particular energy.
the immediate problems are urgently needed to deal with the fateful date of the beginning of 2008. i will mention only three problems: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
i am not referring to those comparative advantages of a social and environmental nature which unfortunately still escape a legal framework in multilateral trade negotiations and which will one day, i hope very soon, have to be reconciled instead in the framework of trade which can be described as truly fair.
i believe that there is essentially one, the only way to restore some of what i would call fair trade and sustainable competition: i think that a system of surveillance of chinese imports must be based on the ascertainment of production conditions not too far removed from those which support our industries.
i would like to touch very briefly on the three priorities of the presidency and then make a small note on the subject of climate change and environmental issues.
we would have liked to have had a clear strategy for latin america, aimed at revitalising the dimension of regional integration and defining a policy which would be geared to greater cooperation on climate change and which would not simply be resolved by supporting the relatively empty marketing of lula in relation to bioethanol.
finally, mr president, i would like to thank the presidency and the commission for the work done in bali, but i think the difficult part will come now, with the transposition into laws and regulations of all the commitments we have made on climate change.