i would support the liberalisation of rail transport services if the social and environmental effects of opening up the railway networks were thoroughly examined.
and it's a matter of attitude, of values, of respect and concern for the environment, and so i think that the focus should be on education, on culture, which is where the attitude is formed, starting with the youngest members of society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank everyone who took the time to come here, at this late date in the year, to the plenary session to discuss such an important issue as the integration of sustainability into development cooperation policy.
the eu's key documents the treaty on european union and the eu's sustainable development strategy define sustainable development as development that meets the needs of society today without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
sustainable development is an overarching principle of eu law that should affect all eu policies, including development cooperation policy.
i am referring to the environmental impact of human activities, the various economic sectors that we develop, particularly industry.
this is a huge price the world is paying, even if not all countries have and use technologies that cause greenhouse gases, co2 or other pollution.
we're looking beyond our own economies to make the right decisions, and we want developing countries to use clean renewable energy, clean technologies, and it's not that simple.
the communication highlights the challenges of sustainable development and suggests some possible solutions for developing countries.
sustainable development has three main aspects: sustainable economic growth, environmental protection and social justice and cohesion.
this means that economic, environmental and social issues are interrelated and mutually reinforcing and their interlinkages should emerge at the policy-making stage.
they are addressed through financial support from the eu and other countries, institutional capacity building in developing countries, the fight against corruption, new approaches to help markets and businesses achieve sustainable development, attracting foreign direct investment and more.
the environment is affected by illegal deforestation, which promotes corruption and the possibility of armed conflict, by lack of access to drinking water and sanitation, by pollution, in particular the greenhouse effect, and by the depletion and degradation of natural resources, which are also prerequisites for conflict situations.
environmental issues are also important in the social field, such as access to drinking water and sanitation, access to education, health systems, and the fight against poverty.
in the context of the three pillars of sustainable development, it is clear that promoting economic growth and eradicating poverty while protecting the environment are the main challenges for eu development cooperation policy.
in this policy, the eu must therefore also encourage other major economic players, such as the us, china and india, to contribute to the implementation of global sustainable development.
promoting economic growth requires the implementation of sustainable development in all sectors, investment in clean technologies, the introduction of alternative energy technologies and, crucially, the application of codes of conduct for companies.
as regards the environment, it is important to stress that multinational corporations operating in developing countries must respect the environment.
to combat environmental degradation in developing countries, the eu should work more closely with small and medium-sized enterprises to develop their respect for the environment.
preserving biodiversity, monitoring the ecological state of the environment and taking the necessary measures to maintain it is a duty we all owe to future generations.
in the social sphere, we need to pursue the millennium development goals, promote sustainable consumption, fight disease, and channel more of our official development assistance into health and environmental education.
it is also necessary to involve civil society, ngos and women in addressing sustainable development issues, and to intensify social dialogue.
in addition to the three areas of sustainable development, i would also like to mention institutional capacity building as a priority horizontal measure for all sectors.
assistance for institutional, administrative and legal reform, infrastructure development and public financial management must take into account environmental, economic and social impacts.
these are long-term actions to achieve sustainability in development cooperation policy, but the eu can act now to achieve sustainability, tackle agricultural export subsidies, encourage imports of products that have been produced in a sustainable way and without violating international agreements, use migration policies to stem intellectual flows from developing countries, promote investment in developing countries and realise 0.7% of gdp for development aid.
the more urbanised a society is, the greater the amount of waste and the greater the problems associated with its management.
the quantities are enormous, and this reality shows the relevance of waste regulation at european level and the need to raise awareness of waste management.
i support the commission's initiative to simplify, update and make much clearer the general waste directive.
articles 29 to 31 of the directive lay down new requirements for member states to draw up national waste prevention programmes.
it is essential that waste is given greater attention not only at european level but also at national level.
however, the requirement to develop waste prevention programmes for all waste in general is difficult to implement because of the specific waste streams and different possibilities for applying prevention measures.
it would be more appropriate to provide guidelines for the development of national waste prevention programmes, identifying priority waste areas, and leaving it to the member states to decide on other waste for which such programmes are to be developed.
i welcome the rapporteur's very ambitious commitment to halt the dangerous growth of the waste mountain.
it's time to learn to live differently, because like climate change, the consequences can be difficult to reverse or fatal.
in many of the new member states of the european union, including lithuania, landfill remains the most common form of waste management.
municipalities lack the expertise and resources to take waste prevention, sorting and recycling measures.
most people are not yet ready to support more advanced waste management methods, and lack control.
manufacturers and importers shall endeavour to avoid liability for waste management.
i would like to encourage the old eu countries to be more energetic in passing on their experience to the new ones by encouraging private investment in waste management, improving legal regulation, explaining to people the need to protect nature and not cut the branch on which we all sit.
unfortunately, i think we are in the process of centralisation and the decisions, both in the energy sector and in the lisbon strategy, are promoting centralisation.
i believe that one of the most important and essential things for the european engine to work, to be able to be a competent country, a competitive country in the world, would be to promote the balanced development of all the european countries, through the development of research centres, the development of energy centres in different countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the implementation of the lisbon strategy, i would like to emphasise one of the four priorities: energy.
the baltic states remain isolated from an energy perspective - both in electricity and especially in gas.
the speech by the russian president in munich showed a reversal of imperial policy and apparently no change in the use of energy for political purposes.
the eu's single energy market would also be a guarantee of security against third countries and would help to deal with energy crises that can arise both within the eu and from outside.
this is a contribution to the diversification of energy supplies to europe that we think is highly important at this stage.
the european central bank has its own sustainable inflation rate, which is about 2 percent, approaching 2 percent.
does it not seem that these indicators should be combined to make it clear to everyone what sustainable inflation is?
for the alde group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in energy prices has reached unexpected proportions in recent times.
the price increase is driven by the increased demand for energy resources from new large market players, in particular china.
in addition, energy resources are made more expensive by the cost of extracting them and by the geopolitical instability of oil-exporting regions.
the russian policy of using energy as a tool for economic and political pressure on partners is also influencing price increases.
my country, lithuania, whose economy is heavily dependent on imported energy resources, has exceeded the maastricht inflation criterion of 0.07% due to a sudden increase in energy prices and has therefore not become a member of the euro area as expected at the beginning of the year.
the increase in energy prices is unpredictable in real terms and will affect the possible accession dates of the candidate countries to the euro area, apparently moving them further and further away.
should we simply note the impact of rising energy prices on the eu economy, or should we draw conclusions from this?
after all, europe only started talking about a common energy policy after the ukraine-russia crisis in 2006. the oil and gas conflict between belarus and russia ended successfully earlier this year.
it is good that the report includes a whole chapter calling for europe to act now by investing in innovation, energy infrastructure, renewable energy, technology platforms, the clean energy transition.
i think that in the light of the energy situation in the eu and the world, we should also discuss the safe use of nuclear energy, taking into account not only the cost but also the impact on climate change, as we celebrate the 50th anniversary of euratom this year.
the author of the report calls for the creation of a genuine euro-mediterranean energy market to be given top priority.
have we given up on russian oil and gas without a common eu energy market?
the implementation of these guidelines, which set out six priorities, requires measures with a sustainable impact.
the honourable member's question concerns whether the commission has a complete picture of greenhouse gas emissions from road transport and what measures it proposes to reduce the environmental impact of these emissions.
the commission services, in cooperation with the european environment agency, shall record and monitor the annual emissions of all internal transport in the european union.
i would first like to refer to the carbon dioxide emissions to which the honourable member's question refers.
in 2003, carbon dioxide emissions from the transport sector within the european union of 25 amounted to 951 million tonnes.
they accounted for about 21% of the total greenhouse gas emissions of the european union.
road transport produced 892 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions, i.e.
road transport has the largest share of greenhouse gas emissions within the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the effects of the crisis.
it should also be noted that aviation emissions have increased at a faster rate than those of other modes of transport.
finally, the climate burden from aviation is greater than the figures suggest, because at high altitude, aircraft emissions affect ozone, which is a greenhouse gas, and affect cloud formation.
for these reasons, if we want to limit the climate impact of transport, we must take action covering all means of transport.
in the case of road transport, the commission already announced in its communication on co2 and cars its intention to propose a legislative framework to limit co2 emissions from cars and small lorries.
the average emissions of new cars sold in the european union should be capped at 120 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre by 2012. improvements in engine and vehicle technology will reduce emissions to 130 grams per kilometre, and with additional measures we will have an additional reduction of 10 grams per kilometre and thus 120 grams per kilometre.
the proposal for a directive requires fuel producers to limit the greenhouse gas emissions from fuels during their life cycle.
this effort will result in a 10% reduction in emissions from road transport by 2020. to give you an idea, over 10 years, the reduction in emissions is equivalent to the current annual emissions of spain and sweden.
so far i have referred to the carbon dioxide emissions from road transport.
the commission has proposed that air transport be included in the eu's emissions trading system.
in addition to carbon dioxide emissions, transport also generates other negative emissions for the environment and human health, such as particulate matter and emissions that contribute to ozone, such as nitrogen dioxide and volatile organic compounds.
in the cafe programme we calculated that, if no further action is taken by 2020, transport in total would account for 51% of nitrogen dioxide in land-based emissions and 20% of pm 2,5. the commission has therefore proposed limits on car emissions and last december agreement was reached on the euro 5 and euro 6 standards.
i fully agree with you that we should not focus solely on emissions from airlines, although airlines contribute 3% of the carbon dioxide produced in the european union and have additional effects because of vapours and nitrogen oxides, because these emissions are occurring at a very high altitude, and because the increase from 1990-2004 was 87% and is still rising.
of course, other sources of carbon dioxide like shipping contribute more in total to eu carbon emissions, but they are not increasing as fast.
furthermore, if we calculate the transport unit per tonne of carbon dioxide, then we see that they contribute less than aviation.
i can go further and mention landfills, f gases, or agriculture: all these are sources of carbon dioxide and the commission is taking measures to address these particular issues.
there is also the legislation on car emissions, with the target of 120 grammes.
biofuels will also be very important for land transport, especially with the amendment of the fuel quality directive, which will not only promote sustainable biofuels but also reduce emissions of carbon dioxide.
this will be accompanied by a series of other measures adopted with your help and cooperation and aimed at effectively fighting climate change, which is the number one problem in the world today.
we have two problems: one is carbon dioxide, the other one is other air pollutants.
actually, very recently there was an expansion of the congestion charge zone, so the local authorities are taking the measures they think appropriate in order to fight climate change, by reducing carbon dioxide and the various pollutants emitted by passenger cars.
but you are absolutely right, the better the public transport is, the better it is for the environment, especially if the means of public transport, such as buses, are using sustainable fuel.
however, from my point of view as commissioner for the environment, i can assure you that the environmental benefit will be the same.
we have therefore left the environmental benefit the same, so, as commissioner for the environment, i can assure you that i am very happy with it.
madam president, the commission fully agrees with the honourable member that it is important to improve the awareness and information of young people about the environmental challenges facing our society.
during the 1990s, the commission organised pilot projects to promote environmental education in schools.
this effort included both support for programmes dealing with specific environmental issues and the development of curricula.
many member states have now included environmental education in their national school curricula.
the commission has also developed communication and initiative tools for the environment, which are an important resource for school programmes and for young people in general.
for example, the environment dg's 'environment for young europeans' website offers young people environmental information in 20 languages.
this website is interactive and analyses environmental problems in an easy, enjoyable and educational way.
in particular, it shows children ways in which they can protect the environment.
schools play a key role in the commission's awareness-raising campaign 'climate change is up to you' launched in may 2006. schools participating in the campaign are required to record and monitor their efforts to reduce carbon emissions and to declare their commitment to combating climate change.
children's books cover a variety of environmental issues, such as the rapid increase in waste, the destruction of the ozone layer, the greenhouse effect and climate change, the importance of preventing river pollution and the importance of biodiversity.
i have copies of these publications in several languages as well as a video of the commission's campaign "climate change depends on you" presented by mtv - the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i would also like to point out that environmental education programmes are eligible for funding under the action programme in the field of lifelong learning for the period 2007-2013.
member of the commission.
i think, commissioner, you would agree that young children may not be old enough to understand why they should be concerned about environmental neglect, but they are old enough to appreciate the beauty of the world and to begin developing good habits as regards environmental issues.
madam president, the commission is fully aware of the important role that hydrogen and fuel cells can play in the successful transition to a more sustainable energy system.
it recognises that a key issue is the development and deployment of processes that can supply the required quantities of hydrogen in a way that leads to a net reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and which is also environmentally sustainable.
initially, the bulk of hydrogen is expected to come from fossil fuels, firstly without, and then, in the medium term, with carbon capture and sequestration.
the long-term goal is to produce hydrogen from carbon-free and carbon-lean energy sources.
under the fifth and sixth framework programmes, projects have investigated the potential of hydrogen as an energy carrier at the global level, as well as looking at many different options for producing and using hydrogen, while analysing the economic, social and environmental opinions for different pathways.
the integration of solar energy with systems capable of splitting water will have an immense impact on energy economics worldwide, as it is a promising route for providing affordable renewable solar hydrogen with virtually zero co2 emissions.
it is expected that one of the jti targets will be to supply 10 to 20% of the hydrogen demand for energy applications with carbon-lean or carbon-free production technologies by 2015. the precise scope and targets will be defined once this joint technology initiative is adopted.
the energy theme includes a number of topics related to innovative materials for specific hydrogen production pathways.
the european commission has brought a complaint against poland before the court of justice of the european union over the construction of the via baltica augustavo bypass, which was begun before poland's accession to the eu, on the grounds that it violates the environmental requirements of the rospud valley, through which the viaduct is designed.
the project is expected to provide up to 4% of the project value for environmental damage compensation, animal transfers and reforestation.
however, environmental problems are not avoided by the northern gas corridor, which is planned to run through the natura 2000 site, and may have unforeseen environmental consequences.
the european commission is not concerned about the people of augusta who suffer from pollution.
in may last year, we were invited by the commission to become familiar with the activities of the advanced energy executive agency.
but even if you did not mean that, if we did decide to abolish the minimum rate on alcoholic beverages, that would have an impact on the excise duty on energy and tobacco products.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
the russians think that gazprom will be allowed to introduce military groups that, together with the baltic fleet, will control the entire pipeline and all who sail around and use that environment.
russia, having realised the political and economic power of the energy weapon, has long ignored the views of the international community and the signals it sends about human rights violations in the country.
russia a strategic partner of the european union, to which we apply double standards for the same energy as the rest of the world.
if it has not fulfilled all its intended tasks or has not covered all nuclear-related activities, it has successfully fulfilled those tasks in conjunction with other international institutions related to nuclear energy.
the current situation on eu and global energy markets and the consequences of climate change on the use of fossil and organic fuels make the euratom community even more relevant.
fifteen eu countries have nuclear power stations, and other countries around the world are developing nuclear energy.
parliament's powers should not yet be increased, as the debate on nuclear energy shows.
the european union then decided to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010. time is running out.
if we fail to stop the extinction of species of animals and plants in the world, we will have to raise a white flag and recognize that man's environment-destroying activities, his unbridled desire for profit and pleasure, can destroy the human race itself.
in projects financed by the cohesion and structural funds, the idea of not harming biodiversity is rarely mentioned or even considered.
in general, these countries have a higher biodiversity than the eu's oldest countries, and it is therefore necessary to conserve it and use it for green tourism.
eu citizens need to feel the benefits of biodiversity and ecosystems.
the loss of biodiversity affects the production of food, fuel, materials and medicines, the regulation of water, air and climate, the maintenance of soil fertility, the circulation of nutrients.
the commission's call to integrate biodiversity and ecosystem protection into all relevant policies and programmes, to protect marine biodiversity, and to reduce pollution in agriculture and industry is justified.
climate change mitigation measures must not be harmful to biodiversity.
about 1% of the world’s biofuels came from indonesian and malaysian palm oil in 2006. the main use of palm oil today is in food and other non-energy sectors.
having said that, the commission is aware that, if nothing is done, the increasing demand for biofuel, linked to the proposed community biofuel target for 2020, could create additional environmental pressures, which would be contrary to the sustainable approach supported by parliament, the commission and the council.
within the framework of its legislative proposal, the commission will therefore include a biofuel sustainability scheme designed to ensure that the biofuel sector plays its part in tackling this issue.
it aims to include measures to deter the conversion of both tropical forests and peat lands for biofuel production, as well as measures to deter the use of production methods that are inefficient in greenhouse gas terms.
in view of the above, any attempt to deal comprehensively with the impact of oil palm cultivation on the environment would need to take into account oil palm production for all end users.
the commission, the council and parliament have all expressed support for a balanced approach to biofuels in which domestic production and imports will both contribute to meeting the huge requirement, but production will be carried out on a sustainable basis.
i definitely agree that our global scheme is to fight global emissions of co2 and for this reason we are certainly looking at the carbon footprint of biofuels use.
because, whatever we do, we perhaps will be sustainable.
so, in the negotiations which are to start in bali, we need to work towards a scheme for protecting the rainforests, as well as looking at how to encourage the planting of more forests on the earth, not for palm oil for our transport, but for less co2 emissions from transport as a whole.
in the long run, will we not have a food crisis with this kind of renewable energy?
a number of countries have a situation that is sustainable; they produce 12 % of their electricity from biomass.
but i believe the market will respond appropriately and, if our sustainability scheme that will encourage the production of biofuels with fewer co2 emissions is put in place, there will be a balance in this market.
you might ask, which is more important, food or energy?
this means that part of our efforts must go into the production of energy.
these are issues that we have discussed previously: how to supply the european union with sufficient energy resources.
as you know today 50% of our energy supplies are covered by imports and we know that in the future the percentage will be even higher.
in this way, it reduces first of all the possibility of an environmental disaster and secondly it is an additional supply route to channel oil that is produced north of the caspian to european markets.
we should continue to buy energy resources because, for russia, the eu is the best possible market because it is the closest market and mutual ties have existed for some time, but for security of supply it is important to diversify.
it is important to develop energy sources inside the european union, to be extremely energy-efficient and to build internal energy infrastructure whether it be pipelines or electricity transmission lines.
the european union is very active in all these areas, even if we always recognise that each country decides on its own energy mix.
but, through the instruments of the internal market and through the instruments given us by european legislation, we are encouraging the use of local resources and being very energy-efficient.
i thank the commissioner for his reply and for the hope that we will find alternative sources of energy, because, as i said in my question, and in view of the current situation, it is clear that whatever the agreements, at one end of the pipeline, whether for oil or gas, is russia.
but i would ask that we all make a concerted effort to speed up the implementation of projects for alternative energy sources.
theoretically, if there is a need, the baltic states could use one additional energy terminal.
it is a very interesting economic thing to invest in energy transport.
i believe that after the adoption of the energy package we will have the opportunity to return to this question when the budgetary perspective is discussed.
i think that there is also a need to allocate more funds to transeuropean energy networks, because there are areas which are strategically important and at the same time not so profitable for the economy.
member states should do much more and invest more in the diversification of the energy mix, of supply routes and of suppliers.
so a little bit of personal responsibility could very well lead to less waste being generated here.
it is therefore necessary to promote innovation in enterprises in all economic sectors to ensure sustainable economic growth, bearing in mind that the viability of high-tech industries is highly dependent on the viability and innovation of local traditional industries.
the european commission has brought a case against poland before the court of justice of the european union for the construction of a bypass, which was begun before poland's accession to the eu, because it violates the environmental requirements of the raspudas valley, through which the viaduct is designed.
however, environmental problems are not addressed by the nord stream project, which is planned within the natura 2000 site and may have unforeseen ecological consequences.
the people who suffer from pollution are not cared for.
in addition, china has significant energy and raw material interests in sudan.
however, 65% of eu imports from russia are energy-related.
the eu is really dependent on russian exports, its energy policy globally, the eu and domestically.
russia uses energy as a political tool in its attempts to dictate its political terms to the former soviet states and eu members, especially the baltic states.
russia is dividing the solidarity of the eu countries by proposing bilateral energy supply projects, the use of which for political purposes may have dire consequences for the eu's common energy policy.
the report under discussion today suggests that the main objective of eu energy policy cannot be simply to avoid energy dependence on russia.
i would like to emphasise that this must be a key instrument to achieve one of the key objectives of the eu's common energy policy - energy security.
mr president, so far, in formal terms, the commission has not gone beyond what we proposed to the council, and the ecofin council has approved the latest update of the stability programme, namely to improve the long-term sustainability of public accounts in greece.
greece is one of the six countries in the union which, in our report last year, is in a high risk position as regards the lack of sustainability of its public accounts, largely because, with current demographic forecasts, a sharp increase in pension and health spending is expected.
what is needed, therefore, is for the greek authorities to formulate, and for the greek parliament to debate and approve, reforms aimed at improving sustainability, for which - there is no doubt for anyone who analyses the situation of the greek economy and public accounts in greece - a reform of the pension system and the social protection system must be undertaken, improving its sustainability and therefore its viability in the medium and long term and, at the same time, beyond the correction of the excessive deficit that has taken place.
in accordance with the treaty, the commission and the european central bank will publish the next convergence report in 2008, in principle in may 2008. as regards the last part of your question, which relates, by way of comparison, to the security of energy supply, the provisions of the treaties in force have already led the european parliament and the council to adopt directives on the security of natural gas supply on the one hand and on the safeguarding of the security of electricity supply in infrastructure investment on the other.
an obligation, the obligation to join the euro, is one which the treaty does not specify in terms of maximum time limits or legal rules for implementation, but refers to that convergence assessment which is carried out every two years, and on the other hand, in the case you mention as an example, that of energy security, there are directives which must be applied by the member states, and in the event of non-compliance the corresponding infringement procedures apply.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment, with a view to promoting the use of renewable energy sources in the eu.
this proposal will certainly be followed by an examination in all possible areas, in particular as regards the environment and safety.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
now russia is also conducting an environmental impact assessment of the project, saying that the weapons that are on the seabed are not dangerous.
but we should be glad that an important first step has been taken and it will take the energy of all concerned to put this into effect by the end of june.
i would like to draw attention to and mention what i believe is an important point: the liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets cannot be achieved in isolation from the development of external policy, because the dependence of the gas and electricity markets on third countries and their companies is increasing all the time, and we are well aware of the possible consequences, and therefore very strong liberalisation steps and measures need to be coordinated with the development of external energy policy.
first of all, i propose to emphasise more the importance of priority energy interconnections for the creation of the eu internal energy market.
furthermore, the financing of the four priority energy interconnectors is not entirely clear.
secondly, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make it clear that the creation of a single european energy market must be guided by economic logic and the principle of solidarity.
we are in very close contact with the various special representatives of the high representative and have put the neighbourhood policy at the service of creating the right environment to find a solution.
in view of the current energy situation in europe and the world, and despite the commitment made in the accession treaty, do you think it is appropriate to close a cost-effective, well-functioning and safe power plant or unit?
a much stronger instrument of influence is the high level group on the treatment of safety and nuclear waste, because this is the way to proceed and to gather together all the member countries – those that have nuclear power and those that do not – and to really push these issues forward.
the liberalisation of the market will not have any effect, because nuclear energy is a part of national energy mix and each country would like to make its own decisions.
therefore, i believe that the best way to promote the directive is to work in a high level group of all 27 member states and, in this way, to establish a broader consensus on establishing higher nuclear safety standards and better treatment of nuclear waste.
the possibility of further increases in oil exports via primorsk underline the importance of a strong legislative framework for maritime safety and environmental risks related to the tanker traffic and effective implementation of that framework.
the commission considers that pipeline transport of oil is preferable to tanker transport when there is maritime safety or environmental risks.
in march 2007 the european council endorsed an energy policy for europe containing an extensive action plan which sets out the strategy.
security of supply should be achieved by advances in several parts of the action plan, notably the establishment and functioning of the internal energy market and solidarity arrangement between the member states within the market.
these also include the diversification of energy, making an effort in terms of energy efficiency and last, but not least, work towards a strong single voice in external energy relations.
the network of energy security correspondents set up in may has just started preparing its work but it will be a very good instrument in the future in assessing the external supply risks.
what is the role of the network of energy security correspondents in this story?
i would like to repeat that what we want are fair conditions of competition between and within the modes, which will actually make it possible to develop this modal transfer, which, i repeat, is very important to us, particularly for environmental reasons and to reduce congestion on our road network.
we must discuss with africa migration, the economy, trade, energy, the climate, but also, of course, human rights and good governance, among other matters with which we have already been in dialogue and which were also the subject of debate and discussion at the first summit held in cairo in 2000 under the previous portuguese presidency.
as regards the third question, the council recalls that the construction of a new gas pipeline in northern europe along this route is in line with the european union's energy policy objective of improving the security of supply in the community.
effective diversification of energy sources and transport routes was mentioned in the community action plan of the european council of march 2007 as one of the means of improving security of supply.
the community acquis will be applied in full where necessary, including in particular community environmental legislation, to the parts of the pipeline constructed in the territory of the member states of the european union.
could it be a private project that poses not only a problem for the energy supply, namely gas, to the neighbouring countries, but also an ecological problem in the baltic sea?
there is a growing need to speak out about the situation of human rights defenders and the environment in which they work, about economic, social and environmental human rights.
the eu and russia are linked by gas and oil pipelines, but energy sources and commercial interests should not overshadow a dialogue on human rights in russia.
this report, carefully prepared by my colleague britta thomsen, will help us to live in a cleaner environment, to resist climate change.
ambitious renewable energy action plans at eu and national levels, and their monitoring, should be integrated into the eu's overall energy policy, reducing dependence on energy supplies from third countries.
however, as some countries have a high potential for hydro, solar or wind energy and others have a low potential, each country's action plan must be highly individual and realistic.
it would be useful for the european commission to redirect the use of the structural funds towards renewable energy development and also to seal and heat block houses.
tax policies should also promote renewable energy.
what will the eu citizen say, struggling to make ends meet, if the necessary shift to more renewable energy sources contributes to the rise in electricity and housing prices?
provision should be made for aid for those in more difficult circumstances, who are particularly affected by the surges in energy prices.
we are funding and supporting that, and will do so more in the future, because we believe that in the world of globalisation the challenges which lie ahead of us – be it food, health, drinking water, climate change, security or energy – are global and it is for us all to deal with them in the proper way.
commissioner, you mentioned among the top priorities the thematic subjects energy and climate change.
the european union is indeed not simply implementing a common foreign and security policy, but is only beginning to develop a common energy policy.
and here it is proposed to go further to develop a common european external energy policy.
this is a step which i believe is the right one, because the intersection between foreign affairs and energy is becoming increasingly apparent, and we need to look to the future.
countries that control energy resources are tempted to control, if not the whole world, then at least a special influence in some regions.
the creation of a special representative for external energy policy with dual responsibilities would be important, i have no doubt about that.
the eu and russia are highly dependent on each other for energy imports and exports.
i have already stressed on several occasions the issues of the common energy policy and the security of energy supply, as these are vital issues for lithuania and the other baltic states.
president-in- office, in answering that question you mentioned energy efficiency, and i believe it is the right approach.
yesterday commissioner potočnik also stressed that priority number one is energy efficiency and fighting climate change.
i would like to ask you, what additional measures can the council take in order to mobilise all their resources and attention to solving this vital problem of efficiency and climate change?
i am concerned that the talk of european politicians on energy conservation, climate change and similar issues is being ignored in many european member states.
now we often see with the naked eye how there is no saving of electricity, how there is no thinking about the consequences of global warming.
there is probably not a single person in this room, in this parliament, who would say that the environment, a healthy environment, human health, is not important.
however, the amendments adopted or which emerged during the deliberations of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety have raised serious concerns.
i therefore invite my colleague to take account of the views of all the parties concerned when voting and to take a balanced, fair decision so that, in order to improve the environment, we do not destroy agriculture and do not leave european union citizens without european food and millions of people without work.
both types of energy covered by this report receive sufficient attention, while the importance of alternative energy and the deployment of new energy technologies is emphasised.
energy diversification is a major contributor to energy security and is also a vital issue for my country lithuania.
the discussion of this report did not go without a discussion on the future of nuclear energy.
in recognition of the importance of existing alternative energy sources and even new ones, and their potential dominance in the future, we must get down to earth and face the reality that nuclear power now accounts for 31% of all electricity in the european union.
it is energy that helps to meet the kyoto targets and makes a significant contribution to the security of energy supply.
i think it is hypocritical to propose amendments that reject nuclear energy, as some green politicians are doing so vigorously now, in the name of the security of the citizens of the european union, thereby increasing the insecurity of other citizens of the european union.
i therefore urge my colleague to be tolerant and to support provisions which allow each country to decide whether it needs safe nuclear energy or not.
the key point is that the economic environment is changing and we need to update not only our companies but also our fiscal policy instruments accordingly.
what is actually raising our concerns is the fact that we now have tropical diseases spreading in europe as a combination of climate change, which of course helps the proliferation and survival of the vector, and at the same time increased mobility, which allows the introduction of the virus via the movement of people coming from the tropics.
the new public programme and other instruments will also fund research in addressing many issues related to vector-borne diseases, as we also need to look at the issue of the insects themselves, and of course at global change through projects like eden, which concerns emerging diseases in a changing european environment.
all this demonstrates how climate change has an immediate effect on health.
in parallel, i should mention that we also have problems in animal health which have developed because of climate change.
the european commission is planning to adopt a communication next year dealing with that aspect of climate change too.
that is why we are preparing a report to deal with insect-borne diseases, because climate change helps their proliferation, as i said earlier, but also – because we have mild winters – the survival of insects which then transmit disease.
the report on traditional energy sources and energy technologies is of particular importance.
life has forced the european union's member states to take a realistic view of energy in the eu and global markets - its sources, their diversity, the security of supply.
i would like to emphasise the importance of nuclear energy as a safe, reliable and environmentally friendly energy.
nuclear energy is particularly important for countries that do not have abundant natural conditions for renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, water, biomass, which are very expensive to exploit.
it is more likely to affect price increases and consumption decreases, especially with rising global prices, energy prices.
it is now essential that the two parties – belgrade and priština – assume their responsibilities and engage seriously in constructive and creative proposals that can lead to a negotiated, sustainable solution.
and how does the council, with all these floods, fires, climate change, what's happening now far away from us in america - how does it envisage the use of such forces in specific cases?
i am pleased that the committee on industry, research and energy has reached a general agreement on the number of members of the agency's advisory committee.
with all due respect to the commission, i would point out that the proposal to reduce the committee's influence and number of members to 42 was not the best one, especially when the commission recommends the creation of structures, instruments such as the energy monitoring service, to create an effective european energy policy.
it acts as an intermediary between the agency and the producers and consumers of nuclear energy.
i can understand the question and the remarks of the honourable member, but it is undeniable that the effects of climate change will affect the most vulnerable countries first.
maldives is leading the ldc working group on climate change at the united nations.
the commission supports sustainable urban development through good governance and good urban management.
the ultimate goal is to promote sustainable urban development.
when you consider that a one percent increase in trade in africa is equivalent to two and a half times the total of official development assistance in africa, you will understand that there can never be sustainable development in poor countries without more prosperous economies.
first, agriculture, which is important because it creates sustainable employment that can feed a whole family.
many eu citizens are concerned about the changing environment in which they live as a result of globalisation, and we as politicians need to prepare a response.
and i completely disagree with mr flüger that this is a waste of eu taxpayers' money.
the eu should not only seek to resolve potential energy problems at the highest level, but also to include ukraine in the emerging eu common energy policy area and to pursue energy security for ukraine and the eu.
ukraine is a strategic partner of the eu and it is therefore necessary to develop the integration of ukraine in such important sectors as energy, bilateral trade.
the important role of ukraine in ensuring the security of energy supply of the european union should be fully taken into account.
however, i am convinced that the basic concept of a balance between economic, social and environmental aspects remains fully valid.
it is therefore important that the european union continues to regard environmental protection as a whole, which cannot be obscured by individual, small decisions.
by reducing pollution, we also clean up the seas and oceans.
this sea is particularly sensitive, with sea levels changing only every 25-30 years, and therefore the pollution is higher than average.
the baltic sea oil production and pipeline planning should take environmental concerns into account.
air pollution in densely populated and industrial areas of the european union is still unacceptably high.
let's go to the big cities of europe and feel the underestimated threat of air pollution right there.
in recent years, we have been able to reduce harmful emissions in the eu countries significantly.
this is particularly true in the new eu countries, where cars that are 20 or even 30 years old and not properly maintained pollute the environment.
stricter targets for reducing air pollution and their implementation deadlines, flexibility in the fulfilment of the tasks, reconciliation of short-term and long-term objectives.
every effort should be made to achieve the lowest possible concentration of particulate matter of all sizes in the air in most parts of europe by 2015. countries that are clearly and vigorously working to reduce their pollution but have not yet achieved the results they want should be given the chance to do so.
in almost every policy area in which the eu is active, be it economic, social or environmental, high-quality population data are required to help formulate operational objectives and to evaluate progress.
they are needed to identify consumers of energy, water and other services, to assess supply and demand of apartments, and to assess financial and construction needs.
there are doubts about whether the ecological situation in the baltic region will improve by 2010. the basis for the doubts is the german-russian gas pipeline, which runs the entire length of the baltic sea.
i have to say, madam president, as the honourable member will note, within the framework of the world trade organisation, the provisions of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) for trade in energy products and the rules of the agreement on trade in services (gats) for trade in energy services, including direct investment in such services, apply.
there is as yet no wto agreement covering direct investment in energy-related activities for own account in the secondary sector, such as mining, refining, energy generation and distribution.
the european community has explicit exclusive competence under the common commercial policy article 133 of the ec treaty to legislate and negotiate agreements in the field of trade in energy products and to negotiate agreements in the field of trade in energy services.
the commission can therefore already now address key issues relating to trade and investment in the energy sector and represent european interests on these issues in bilateral and multilateral wto negotiations, and the commission is doing so!
the energy policy which will be designed under the new treaty, and which will also focus on the security of energy supply in the union and the promotion of the interconnection of energy networks, is in this respect complementary to, but not a substitute for, the common commercial policy in the energy sector.
so, on the first question: i share mr van nistelrooij's view that it is not in our interest to sell technologies which are substandard in terms of energy efficiency and co2 emissions.
mr dimas and i are currently working in the commission on proposals for how to achieve a low-carbon economy in europe, both in terms of industrial policy and in terms of production and consumption.
we do not have the means at the moment to negotiate and enforce such additional standards within the wto, but it is - as you know - our medium and long-term objective to make high environmental and social standards binding within the framework of multilateral agreements, in order to avoid the competitive disadvantage that our companies would otherwise suffer.
i would also like to point out that we have a very strong interest in pursuing such a multilateral policy because we believe that the great future opportunity for european companies lies in our becoming the world leader in environmentally friendly, energy-efficient and energy-saving products.
each member state is fully independent and free to choose its energy mix.
no member state can be recommended or required to use or not to use nuclear energy.
however, as you know, the euratom treaty has been incorporated into the ec treaty, which means that the promotion of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy is clearly a task for the european union.
this is done both through research funding - which has been financing nuclear energy projects for many decades, and this is nothing new - and through the european investment bank, which has in some cases already been involved in the financing of nuclear power stations.
in other words, there is no policy at european level to promote nuclear energy everywhere, and there is no policy at european level to abolish nuclear energy everywhere.
the commission strongly supports the promotion of sustainable urban development which fully respects the environment.
the commission adopted its thematic strategy on the urban environment in 2006. the strategy recognises the whole of sustainable urban development in relation to the quality of life, but the strategy also recognises the diversity that exists between citizens in the european union.
the commission considers it essential to put in place the appropriate governance and planning tools, but is of the opinion that there is no real added value in imposing an obligation to establish specific plans, such as environmental management plans and sustainable urban transport plans.
the commission has, however, published guidance on sustainable urban transport plans and on integrated environment management plans, with the aim of assisting local authorities to implement the strategy’s objectives.
guidance should be seen as a description of the process, and a reminder of the key elements that could be considered when developing integrated environmental management programmes and sustainable urban transport plans at local level.
legislation affecting urban areas exists already, for example in the field of air quality, water management, noise and waste.
the commission recalls the wealth of ideas on urban development which has allowed the ministers responsible for urban affairs to reach a consensus based on the lille action programme, the rotterdam urban acquis, the bristol accord and, more recently, the leipzig charter on sustainable european cities adopted at an informal council meeting on 25 may 2007. in september 2007 it approved a green paper on urban mobility, which has now been submitted for public consultation.
those documents constitute a shared background, outlining the main conditions necessary to achieve urban sustainable development.
the commission sees that the charter is highly useful in encouraging the member states to improve the business environment for small enterprises all over europe.
the whole tax environment for smes is an important one, and my favourite issue of course – over-regulation – is much more important for smes than for big companies.
the issue of noise emissions of four-wheeled motor vehicles – cars, vans, trucks and buses – is addressed by unece regulation no 51 and equivalent directive 70/157/eec introducing noise tests and limit values.
in the field of pollution, i would like to draw the attention of the honourable vice-president of the commission to the fact that it is a very fragmented monitoring mechanism for all the requirements we have just discussed, and perhaps some proposal should be prepared, or perhaps the commission is preparing some proposal to harmonise the administrative procedure for those pollution criteria and the assessment of pollution, because this is a very pressing problem for small countries like lithuania, whose supervisory authorities are weak and do not have the capacity to meet all the requirements.
will the third energy package and the price regulators be involved in this?
the desire of montenegro to declare itself an ecological republic is welcome, but it still has a long way to go before this ambition is more convincingly realised.