this is also true for energy and climate protection.
the eu was responsible for 14% of global co2 emissions last year - not because we've gotten so much better, but because others are emitting extra co2.
the question was: what is the german presidency's position on the debate on the involvement of the automobile industry in climate change?
if you mean the position of the german government, mrs harms, please note the following: firstly, your statement that the federal government is against a legislative proposal and against a pan-european legislation with 120 grams of co2 emissions per kilometre is definitely wrong.
the german government agrees that if the european automobile industry fails to make a commitment, european legislation with a target of 120 grams of co2 emissions per kilometer is of course necessary.
thirdly, we hope to agree that we must achieve this target on average for all vehicles by reducing consumption and co2 emissions in both upper-class and mid-range cars and smaller vehicles.
it is wrong to bring the automobile industry into the emissions trading system in europe, because that would make the emissions trading system even more complex, and it is already over-complex.
that is why it makes sense to regulate this outside of emissions trading.
we also agree that we should not privatise a technological task of the future, namely the reduction of co2 emissions, by saying that this is ultimately dependent on individual driving behaviour.
if your question was addressed to the council presidency at the top - and that is what i understand - then i would be grateful if you would be so fair as to give the council presidency the chance to have at least a guiding debate in the environment council.
that is to say, in the system you propose, it is completely unclear how emissions are to be measured.
you talk about 120 grams of co2 emissions per kilometre, but in fact you want the same as the german car manufacturers, so 130 or 140 grams.
i am not german, but germany has always been one of the great pioneers for me, because the citizens of germany give the first priority to environmental protection and climate protection.
it is a terrible shame for a german presidency which has set itself the task of achieving great things in the field of climate protection to fall over on the first question, which should involve the slightest pressure on the economy!
but the motion for a resolution with 18 recitals and 53 paragraphs which the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled is unacceptable in that it proposes provisions which advocate the interference of the wrongdoer in the competence of the member states, inter alia, in the form of a community legislative framework.
in january, china and russia signed 15 energy cooperation agreements, including one on the construction of two gas pipelines with a capacity of 40 billion cubic meters each.
the chinese, japanese, indians, russians and americans are working together to develop new technologies to combat climate change.
we are struggling to define a solidary, and therefore necessarily common, energy policy, while our energy dependence is increasing.
mrs merkel reminded us this morning that the union was responsible for 15% of global co2 emissions.
according to commissioner dimas, our share fell to 14% in 2006. this does not indicate a greater efficiency of the europeans, but an increase in emissions of other industrialized nations.
if a winegrower wants to give up early, this should be possible and socially cushioned, but without causing irreparable environmental damage by clearing within the perimeter for quality wines.
(the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, since i have only one minute, i shall concentrate on the energy problem.
i believe that the bank can help us to regain credibility at european level, but we must stop being too general when it comes to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
mr president, my group believes that this proposal from the committee on the environment to table an oral question with debate and resolution on crossborder healthcare is unwelcome for the simple reason that the committee on the internal market, supported by the committee on social affairs, is currently discussing a draft report on the same subject, namely healthcare services in the european union.
yesterday i participated in a citizens’ consultation, and it is quite obvious what citizens want – they want europe to be more active on environmental issues.
so, commissioner, you have already turned somewhat on environmental and energy issues under pressure from science and from citizens.
as the european green party, we will be proposing a ten-point package of measures in berlin this weekend to make europe climate-friendly.
we will do so with greater enthusiasm than mr verheugen, who this morning again considered climate protection as a burden on the eu economy rather than a driver of innovation.
more than 40% of europe's energy is pulverized in poorly insulated buildings, and more than 70% of russian natural gas is consumed in european buildings.
it should be remembered that this system would be a considerable contribution to the environment, which would be more efficient than the system of trading in emission allowances which is now being imposed on civil aviation, with a better organized airspace and a real saving of kerosene.
the development phase of sesar is expected to be completed in 2013. the commissioner, it is justified to have the ambition to make progress in the interests of environmental safety, but i would ask the commission to tell us whether it is not possible to make progress in the work and what is the state of progress of the regulatory work in the member states.
it would also set a dangerous precedent for the other excises, such as tobacco and energy, which are also subject to minimum rates, and for other taxes such as vat.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
this is partly due to high energy prices, but also, to a large degree, to a sound macroeconomic policy.
there are questions about specific issues concerning the business climate, for example the continued high levels of corruption.
only this will guarantee a predictable and stable economic environment.
wto membership is the indispensable building block for successful and sustainable economic development.
the third point concerns energy.
you rightly say in your report that the primary objective of eu energy policy cannot simply be to avoid continued energy dependence on russia.
our aim should be to promote two-way investment by energy providers and consumers, upstream and downstream.
in this context we also need to agree on clear, enforceable standards for energy transit, as well as other aims.
our parliament is outraged by russia's failure to ratify the energy charter and the transit protocol.
this is all the more unacceptable as the need for a common energy policy becomes more and more evident.
moreover, half of russia's budget depends on revenues from the energy sector.
finally, russia has a huge need for investment in its energy sector, which must meet growing demand.
in addition, one of our biggest challenges is to achieve the right balance between reducing the barriers to mobility while maintaining a stable and sustainable environment for the development of reinsurance.
it was only the introduction of a national regulatory authority against the will of the german energy companies that led to the fall in tariffs in the german electricity networks.
what are the environmental consequences?
but what we decide here is also nonsense in terms of environmental policy!
all four are underutilized, which means that in a time when we are all talking about climate action, we are in the process of completely disrupting the logistics of the postal service and creating unnecessary traffic.
in the field of energy policy, commissioner piebalgs will shortly present proposals to build a single european energy market.
the tradition of this house of promoting renewable energies over the council and the commission is maintained by this report, which hopefully will find a large majority.
90% of all renewable energy other than large-scale hydropower has been achieved under the guaranteed feed-in price system.
i can only strongly advise you, commissioner, to abandon this strategy, which would be the sole and exclusive fault of the big dominant energy companies e.on, rwe, edf and others, because it will create uncertainty for investment and will deter new players from investing in the future.
i would like in particular to thank mr paasilinna, the rapporteur on this issue; the chairwoman of the committee on industry, research and energy, ms niebler; ms hennicot-schoepges from the committee on culture and education; and also mr böge from the committee on budgets, for their relentless efforts and very valuable contributions.
the eit will provide an environment whereby partners from business, research and academia who are excellent in their respective fields can work together and spur their innovation potential.
this applies to biotechnology, nanotechnology and even the fight against climate change: while europe is focusing on repentance, the americans are advocating technological and scientific progress.
the aim is to ensure the sustainability of european agriculture, to ensure that sufficient quantities of high-quality food are produced, but also to promote research and protect data.
the greatest challenge, of course, is to protect human health and to prevent the persistence of toxic substances in water and the environment.
madam president, road transport, like other sectors of the economy, must contribute to the effort to cut carbon dioxide emissions in order to achieve the objectives of the kyoto protocol and our future commitments for 2020 and beyond.
road transport is the second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union.
passenger cars alone are responsible for 12% of the total emissions of the european union.
it is worth noting that while overall emissions in the european union of 27 member states fell by almost 8% between 1990 and 2005, emissions from road transport increased by 25% over the same period.
i would remind you that since 1995 the commission has set the target of 120 grams, so the car industry knew about it, and i would also remind you that there was a voluntary agreement to achieve a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions to 140 grams per kilometre in 2008. so when the commission realised that this target would not be met by the car industry and when the car industry itself admitted it, then of course last february the european commission completed the review of the community strategy to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from new cars with legislation which is mandatory, and is based on an integrated approach which will achieve the european target of reducing - from new cars - to 120 grams in 2012. addressing the problem of carbon dioxide emissions from cars is also expected to contribute to the objective of enhancing the european union's energy security by reducing our dependence on imported fossil fuels.
madam president, i am pleased to note that your report welcomes our initiative to propose a legislative framework for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from cars, and i thank the rapporteur, mr davies, for his efforts, and mrs harms and mr bulfon from the committee on industry and the committee on the internal market respectively, for their relevant proposals.
the report sets ambitious targets for reducing carbon dioxide and stresses that more and longer-term progress will be needed.
i am absolutely convinced that with our revised strategy and the forthcoming legislative framework we will offer manufacturers a level playing field - based on environmental performance - and not competition based on the size of the car or the power of its engine alone.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european car industry is able to meet its carbon emission targets.
the overall target will be shared among car manufacturers in a sustainable and socially fair manner.
i think that what we are voting on this week, mr davies’ initiatives, are from a green liberal climate hero who has become a climate judas.
as regards the reports on the placing of plant protection products on the market and the sustainable use of pesticides, i have followed the very responsible line of my political group.
i am shocked, however, by the proselytism of the ayatollahs of the environment committee who, initiative after initiative, want to 'save the planet' at the expense of humans and their weaknesses.
i did not support the report which seeks to include co2 emissions from aviation in the eu's emissions trading scheme.
but europe is sacrificing all its industries, including aviation, without any significant effect on the climate.
take the energy market.
90% of the world's energy resources are controlled by sovereign states.
the environment committee has added more.
the soil already protected by the ivu and ffh directives does not migrate from one country to another, but this does not apply to water as a possible factor in soil pollution.
on the one hand, we are impressed by the important reforms that have been undertaken, especially in the economic sphere and in the fight against corruption, and on the other hand, we must not forget the difficult social climate, with very high unemployment and a third of the population living below the poverty line.
what is particularly striking is the very tense, even aggressive political climate, with very serious accusations being made against the president by the opposition, followed by public retractions that raise new questions.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.