i hope that germany will use its influence to make a real breakthrough in european energy security policy, including by forming a common policy with russia, supported by all member states.
parliament must therefore be prepared to go through the conciliation procedure, both for people with disabilities and for passengers in the west and the environment in europe, and for the periphery in the east.
the lisbon strategy and energy and climate change policy targets are ambitious, but they require reality to deliver.
most of the tasks to be undertaken to achieve the objectives set are deliberate, but the implementation of these tasks is made much more difficult by the interlinked nature of the reforms to be undertaken in the economic, social and environmental fields.
the current agenda includes new tests on member states' readiness to maintain the pace of reforms, such as the liberalisation of the european energy market.
a liberalised european energy market is a prerequisite for the competitiveness of the common market, energy independence, long-term stability and the integration of new member states into the single market for electricity and gas.
one of the key tasks of this european council is to set the course for agreement on a single european energy policy in the member states.
energy policy must become a component of the european union's security policy as soon as possible.
the establishment of a permanent dialogue with energy-consuming and energy-supplying countries is also essential to prevent the emergence of growing global imbalances and instability.
in relations with its main gas supplier, europe russia needs to be persuaded to ratify the transit protocol and the energy charter agreement.
it will also have new opportunities and responsibilities in the european union's energy policy and in the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, especially in the latter, where the objectives are not supported by funding.
the european investment bank's refusal to participate in the controversial baltic sea gas pipeline project may be seen as a very deliberate decision not to engage in projects that undermine solidarity in european energy policy.
the bank's participation in the financing of interconnection of transnational energy networks, where private capital is hampered by complex financing arrangements, will be of particular importance for the private capital contribution.
the big energy companies, which dictate the rules to national governments, have shown little interest in cross-border connections so far.
the creation of a genuine european energy market is likely to be delayed again.
the ambitious target to increase the share of renewable energy and reduce emissions is a bold and welcome step.
the decision was taken without relying on calculations of the availability and deployment of renewable energy resources in the member states, the availability of technologies and their prices.
energy or natural resource consumption is not directly proportional to wealth, so environmental and energy taxes are not appropriate for the eu's own resources system.
however, in this speech i wanted to draw attention to my proposal to reduce the consumption of paper and energy in the european parliament.
the eu institutions should set an example by demonstrating environmentally friendly policies and reducing energy consumption.
reducing paper consumption by using air conditioning more rationally would have environmental benefits as well as significant savings for the european parliament's budget.
as you know, after the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, several new amendments were tabled by the political groups to be voted on during today’s sitting.
in addition, in the baltic climate conditions, it is not possible to carry out a qualitative inspection at sea under these conditions, and i therefore invite my colleagues to reconsider this proposal, which would allow the member states to designate these anchorages themselves.
these three baltic states are not linked to the european union by rail via poland, as the rail baltica section of the route in this area is expected to face the same difficulties in meeting environmental requirements.
i would therefore urge the commission and all others, including the polish government, who could make these decisions at a reasonable pace, to think about this issue not only from the point of view of poland and the european environmental requirements, but also from the point of view of the interests of these three member states of the european union.
at the same time, it is important to further develop the principle of solidarity in decision-making, for example in the crucial energy sector.
the report sets out the direction of the state reforms, the tasks for the development of democracy, the rule of law, the business and investment environment and is an important support for the long-term stabilisation of ukraine.
for the last time, we can see that easily available cheap money does not create sustainable growth.
sustainable growth is based on proactive systemic reforms, efficient investment and a freer and more transparent market.
one of the objectives of the european energy strategy is to increase the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption to 20% by 2020. latvia is a pioneer in this field, as the share of renewable energy in latvia is already 37%.
in order to ensure that the targets for the share of renewable energy in the national electricity mix are met, member states should be able to set the targets for the share of renewable energy in the national electricity mix in accordance with the national energy efficiency standards.
the rapporteur's view that attention should be paid to ensuring that large member states do not receive discounts and renewable targets below 20% is supported.
given that the five largest member states account for at least 60% of eu energy consumption, the rebates for the large countries would impose a disproportionate burden on the rest.
the rapporteur's position on the allocation of additional eu budgetary resources to the objectives of the european energy strategy is supported by the priority given to this area in the review of the eu financial perspective for 2007-13. the objectives of the european energy strategy are both economically and ecologically viable.
energy is an area where the european union shares competence with the member states.
and it is clear that in these circumstances, moving towards a common foreign and energy policy is not an easy task.
however, the need to resolve the situation as quickly as possible is driven by our dependence on unstable countries with questionable democratic qualities for energy supply.
the issue of security of energy supply is an important element of overall security.
experience has shown that energy can be a very effective tool for political pressure.
it must work on the principles of the energy charter, of course it is necessary for russia to ratify the charter.
as regards third countries with growing energy needs, the european union should ensure that renewable technologies are supplied to them on preferential terms.
as regards the energy dialogue, it is necessary that the principles of the energy charter and ratification be an integral part of the new agreement, despite moscow's dissatisfaction with the reciprocity clause.
greenhouse gas emissions trading is the right answer to reducing aviation emissions.
most airlines in the new eu member states lag far behind those in the old eu member states, both in terms of the number of passengers they carry and in terms of their greenhouse gas emissions per capita.
the balancing of the mobility of the european union's population will be delayed if greenhouse gas emissions trading does not provide the conditions for fast-growing airlines to continue to grow, so that the money spent on buying emission allowances does not become a brake on their development.
the environment committee of the parliament has supported the proposal to create a new aircraft operator reserve, which is right.
the energy sector is a good example.
the european union is interested in a transparent natural gas transit system in ukraine, which, like the entire energy sector in ukraine, is overregulated with artificially complex structures, unclear cash flows.
because i believe that maintaining strict safety measures for shipping only within the european union will not save the environment in the seas that supply the european union, unless the european union adopts international standards.
for example, a decision by the european competition authority or action to limit climate change.
the failure to agree on a common policy on security of energy supply and the liberalisation of the electricity and gas markets will determine the european union's global competitiveness in many ways.