such issues as environmental ones are to be left to national legislation, whereas the original proposal had a wider scope.
mr president, there is no doubt that we must make progress on environmental regulations.
madam president, many of our debates regarding fisheries have been centred around sustainability and the importance of finding the right equilibrium between the protection of the marine environment, the protection of fish stock and the viability of the activity.
i hope that with today's discussion we are not simply adding to the hot air with emissions, but trying to find solutions to problems.
the economic impact of the increase in oil prices is felt much more strongly in a situation like that of malta, where the country is totally dependent on this oil as an energy source.
in addition, while the public is being asked to pay more for essential services, there is an unjustified waste of public resources.
we believe that all member state governments including that of malta have an obligation to see that environmental regulations, including hunting, are in line with the union directives and with the treaties of accession and any other agreements that have been signed.
environmental regulations shall comply with the directives of the european union and the terms of the treaty of accession.
when the labour party, we, as well as some environmental and other hunters' associations, expressed doubts about this call for achievement, you remained silent - you who are mostly from malta.
and to strengthen economic cooperation we need to focus more, of course, on the need to achieve our free trade area targets by 2010. but we cannot even move towards a free trade area without taking into account the negative consequences that this can bring, for example on employment and housing, on the standard of living, on social development and even on the environment.
but there are certainly relations such as energy, the problem of immigration, where together we are trying to find a way to live with each other better.
but that does not address the issue where fuel and energy costs adversely affect the competitiveness of the communities living in such islands.
the post-study construction of this marsascala plant is considered by everyone, including officials of malta's environmental authority, to be a farce.
the socio-economic study on residents was not carried out thoroughly and in accordance with the terms of reference while the environmental health study was completely ignored.
first of all because even one human life is too precious and secondly this is the only way to limit environmental and ecological disasters.
the votes were important as a 'pattern' because of four dimensions: the social one, the lack of decent affordable housing as in my country, the environmental one, strategic development for housing in cities, and not as recently happened in malta with the extensions of development, energy, energy security, light and gas at affordable prices not as we have in malta exaggerated prices, and finally, integration, an integrated process to improve the quality of life, and not as is happening in a place in marsaskala, where the recycling plant is being built.
i have in mind, for instance, a common immigration policy and a common approach to climate change.
the budget deficit for sustainable reduction is less than 3% and we must also take into account the fact that since malta joined the erm2 programme, the maltese lira has not suffered any devaluation and at no time has an air of uncertainty been created in the country.
as commissioner almunia said, malta has managed to achieve a high level of sustainability and convergence.
in the coming years, much work needs to be done on the sustainability of public finances, in order to comply with the maastricht criteria.
on the other, our fulfilment of the membership criteria cannot rely on the results of a crash economic diet but must be based on sustainable economic policies that ensure that we do not infringe the rules.
internally we have seen that, as this country has been relying on aid from the international environment, especially from the west, human rights are not being respected, minorities are being punished in one way or another; we see some corruption in the police and the judiciary; we see almost forty people, or even fewer, in prison who could face the death penalty, and i think that, as an appeal, europe should, rather than using the freeze, try to reopen negotiations in a collaborative way with this country to show it that it cannot continue in this way.
the aim was to jointly achieve a way of implementing the policy affecting maritime activity while maintaining synergies between sectors, always in a sustainable way.
such a policy will not only strengthen global competition but also protect the environment and address challenges such as immigration and climate change among others.
with new challenges, such as climate change, becoming increasingly high on our agenda, we should look at these relations as the start of a strategic partnership that will lead to the environmental dimension and sustainable development being turned into mutual benefits.
in my work, i am not pretending to be ‘mr energy’.
there are three pillars of external energy relations: one is supply transit (and here i work with my colleagues benita ferrero-waldner and peter mandelson); the second pillar is clean energy and energy efficiency such as launching a global energy efficiency platform (here i work with stavros dimas and janez potočnik; and the third pillar addresses energy poverty (where i work with louis michel).
the treaty, and also the reform treaty, says a very important thing: each member state is responsible for its energy mix.
i now come to mr beazley’s question, because i think it was addressing the heart of the whole process: why do energy issues need to be addressed in a partnership and cooperation agreement, a post-pca agreement with russia, if you have an energy charter?
the energy charter is a multilateral instrument.
for russia, our relations on energy are definitely much bigger.
if these are described, then we can also conclude that there are areas where we also need an external energy representative.
if we have treaty provisions making provision for union development then we should agree to a mandate – by a mandate i mean on a basis like committee 133 for external trade policy – then on the basis of this mandate the person delegated could speak with external suppliers, transit countries, or any other participants in the energy market.
after the commission produces this paper on external energy relations, i believe that parliament will return to the issue because you cannot resolve this issue with just one report.
– today, more than ever, economic powers are scrambling for energy resources.
china is providing enormous amount of aid without strings to developing countries in recompense for energy supplies.
it has become essential to close ranks for the supply and security of energy.
problems facing those eu countries such as malta which have the potential of becoming energy suppliers have to be dealt with by the european union as a whole.
just as in issues of illegal immigration, where questions of energy arise, it is the eu which should intervene.
a common foreign policy on energy should not only be limited to supply and security but must also encompass two essential subjects: the emission of greenhouse gases and secondly the quest for alternative energy.
a common foreign policy on energy can only make sense in this wider context, a triangle, with supply and security at the top, climate change and alternative sources at its base.
we have to compete in this globalised world and so we have to have the necessary targets to meet these challenges, challenges such as climate change, immigration, how can we create more jobs and better conditions for our workers.
a common database of reports and studies is needed to avoid duplication of work, reduce waste and at the same time make information more accessible.
the first proposal says that each country should have the right to 'reduce vat, or in particular circumstances not to impose this tax, on essential goods and services such as food and medicines, for social and environmental reasons for the benefit of the consumer.
but, as i say, by agreeing on a joint strategy, a concrete action plan, concrete follow-up mechanisms, by discussing such important, such topical, such contemporary issues as climate change, as integration issues, as energy issues, as immigration issues, obviously the summit represented a step forward, a step of maturity in our relationship with africa.
as regards nuclear energy, mrs isler-béguin, i must say that this is a good question, which also interests me.
we are willing to talk about nuclear energy, we are willing to discuss nuclear energy among ourselves, since we said at the outset that nothing was taboo.