we agree with the search for a balanced approach which should address economic relations, energy, human rights, but also the situation in russia itself and the question of a number of conflicts in the shared neighbourhood.
this development is bad for the passengers, bad for the railway staff and bad for the protection of our environment.
it is a partnership agreement on aid and trade and serves as a model for the eu's sustainable relations with its development partners.
the campaign of al gore and the report of sir stern have in particular brought climate change to the forefront of attention in recent months.
europe must take a real lead in the climate debate and the action to be taken.
it is now important that the recent proposals of the european commission be taken up not only by the environment committee and the environment council, but also by the heads of government of the member states.
the climate problem is so vast that it will require continued attention in the coming decades.
since climate change and its global warming cannot be easily slowed down, only rigorous action will have a sufficient impact.
this requires a shift to zero- and low-carbon fuels.
the european parliament has already stated that europe must achieve a 30% co2 reduction by 2020. however, the european commission has proposed a 20% reduction to allow for negotiation with the aim of reaching a global agreement, which would then require a 30% reduction in emissions in europe.
president, commissioner, mr gabriel, i really hope that we can agree on the proposal to limit co2 emissions from cars to 120 milligrams and that further reductions are made in second generation fuels.
because it's very necessary -- a lot of people are very, very concerned about climate change.
we caused climate change, and we need to fix it.
secondly, according to the stern report, it is many times cheaper to pursue a strong climate policy now than to pay the costs of adapting to warming later.
climate policy offers many opportunities for innovation and employment.
moreover, an increasing number of sectors will have to be covered by the mandatory emissions trading system.
it is therefore positive that the european commission wants to add the aviation sector to the emissions trading system.
not only producers but also consumers must take their climate responsibility.
finally, i would point out that we must not approach the climate problem in a one-sided way.
measures must therefore not lead to further damage to the environment.
we must prevent environmental crimes like this from happening in the future.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the rapporteurs, mrs jackson and mr blokland, for their excellent reports, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i also thank mrs gutiérrez and the committee on industry, research and energy for the opinion they delivered at first reading.
waste policies play a fundamental role in reducing the environmental impact of the use of natural resources.
the aim of the thematic strategy and the draft directive is, in principle, to prevent the generation of waste and, to the extent that this cannot be avoided, to minimise its impact on the environment and health.
over the past thirty years the european union has developed a significant waste policy and legislation to protect public health and the environment.
the commission's proposal to revise the waste directive seeks to adapt the legislative framework to today's environmental challenges.
the modernisation of this policy takes account of the progress made in the field of eco-innovation and builds on our latest knowledge on the sustainable use of natural resources.
the proposed package of measures aims at:- firstly, reducing the environmental impact of waste throughout its life cycle.
- secondly, to make waste prevention a priority.
member states should implement waste prevention policies through mandatory national programmes.
this is expected to help reverse the current trend of increasing waste volumes.
national targets will also help to reduce waste at community level.
we propose that this be done through the criteria for declassifying waste.
- fourthly, the proposed measures also aim at modernising and simplifying waste legislation.
in conclusion, i would like to make two important remarks on the waste framework directive: - first, the text to be drawn up by the codecision procedure must be clear and provide legal certainty.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste management strategy is implemented.
you'd think waste would not be a controversial topic in this house.
the resolution adopted by the committee on the environment aims to give a clear direction to future waste policy, which is primarily aimed at protecting the environment and public health.
the committee on the environment has a broad consensus on the principles of the precautionary principle, the polluter pays principle, self-sufficiency, proximity and producer responsibility.
there is broad agreement on the five-step waste hierarchy, so prevention first, then reuse, then recycling, then useful use, and finally disposal.
this waste hierarchy is reflected in both mr jackson's report and my report.
however, amendments have been tabled which mean that the waste hierarchy can be used in such a flexible way that it can also be completely avoided.
i would urge that we stick to paragraph 16 of the resolution, which states that the only way to deviate from the waste hierarchy is if a certified life cycle analysis clearly demonstrates that this is more environmentally friendly.
the change of definitions is mainly intended to clarify and to provide a service to the environment.
paragraph 10 of the resolution states that we must be very careful about declassifying waste.
when something is no longer waste, it is no longer covered by the waste protection legislation.
then the waste can be transported anywhere.
the debate focuses on the question of when incineration of mainly household waste can be called recovery.
paragraphs 12 to 14 of the resolution contain the opinion of the committee on the environment.
waste destined for energy recovery or incineration must in any case comply with the emission standards of the waste incineration directive.
the committee also believes that the same environmental standards should apply to both incineration and co-incineration of waste, i.e.
the same emission standards and the same criteria for energy efficiency.
the final paragraph, as formulated in paragraph 31 of the resolution, is a ban on the dumping of combustible waste and waste that can be reused and recycled.
the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive on the disposal of waste.
this has been in the sixth environmental action programme since 2002 and it is high time that the european commission launched these proposals.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteurs, waste is a growing problem in europe and beyond.
we are in danger of slowly drowning in our own waste.
it is therefore high time that we took strong action before the waste problem literally overwhelmed us.
it is important to remember that waste has become a commercial product, and we see the negative consequences of this.
one third of the most lucrative waste shipments are illegal, physical checks show.
reducing, reusing, recycling waste, these are good sustainable directions.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire is a very good one.
a good waste policy should solve problems and certainly not create new ones.
i have just explained my report on the waste strategy on behalf of the committee on the environment and i pointed out that it is important to keep the principles of the resolution in mind when revising the waste framework directive.
this also means that we should not take incineration of waste too lightly as a useful application.
i do not want to see all kinds of incineration plants being closed down immediately as a result of amendment no 57. i do think, however, that the idea of amendment no 57, namely to include energy efficiency criteria in a permit, can be very good for both the environment and the climate.
finally, i wholeheartedly support the proposals for landfill bans, for reusable and recyclable waste, and the proposals to promote the composting of organic waste.
our waste mountain is still growing, and it is certainly the wrong direction, because we must move towards a world without waste, a world where all discarded products and packaging materials are the raw materials for new products, where raw materials do not lose their value and where recycling is not downcycling.
the waste hierarchy says that we're going to start by preventing waste, and if we still generate waste, then we're going to focus on reuse, and then recycling.
today, 34% of waste is recycled and this proportion can and must increase.
they must be given greater responsibility for the prevention and treatment of waste.
second, a world without waste is unfortunately still a long way off.
the waste that is generated despite recycling and prevention must be used as efficiently as possible.
landfilling is certainly not efficient, but unfortunately 50% of the waste in the european union is still landfilled.
modern waste incineration plants can use waste to make useful use of it by extracting energy from it.
and then it's better to go for combustion with energy recovery.
the european parliament today adopted the waste directive, which requires the amount of waste to be stabilised between 2008 and 2012 and the european waste production to be significantly reduced by 2020. i agree with the conclusions, but i also urge the european parliament itself to set the right example.
firstly, it would be a great step forward if we reduced the number of working languages from 23 to 2 or 3, because despite all the technologies we use, the european parliament still produces large quantities of paper, 99 per cent of which is destined for the waste basket.
the monthly relocation of parliamentarians and staff to strasbourg is not only a waste of money, it also creates co2 emissions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
i would ask that amendment no 9 be put to the vote as an addition to amendment no 21. amendment no 21 calls for 20% renewable energy as a starting point and our amendment, the one from the pse group, calls for 25% and a gradual increase.
energy, innovation and sustainable development.
the fact that the european council has decided to hold a spring break in the winter indicates that the council is recognising climate change.
i am glad that the council is taking up the commission's proposals on combating climate change.
however, a 30% reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 is necessary to achieve the 2°c temperature increase limit.
in the netherlands, the environmental and natural planning office has indicated that this can only be achieved through major changes in technology and in the behaviour of citizens and businesses.
the council conclusions do not clearly indicate which energy sources are to be used to ensure security of supply.
if we cling to fossil fuels, we will be hampering the development of renewable energy.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
their numbers have been reduced not only by disease or by pollution of seawater along densely populated coasts but also by increased hunting.
the bad political climate in russia is the price for holding on to chechnya, against the wishes of its inhabitants, with extremely violent methods.
in that climate, violent forms of intimidation are given every opportunity, and may even result in the murder of people who advocate different opinions and different interests.
and yet there is a need for an early rethinking of the sustainability of this successful policy.
besides the fjellner amendment asking for the costs of maintaining parliament’s three places of work, i would like to advise the house that paragraph 83 of the original text also called for specification of the environmental impact.
it's a way of protecting the environment, public health and the economy.
in addition to the concept of solidarity, it is also important that we include the expected climate change and its potential effects in the preparation of flood risk management plans, in order to be well prepared for the future.
the commission has spent five years on producing a strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources.
like climate change, the problem of natural resources is now acute and we must take concrete action now.
our ecological footprint, the environmental impact of our consumption, is far greater than the earth can handle.
to give you a clear example: if this baby shoe is the ecological footprint that we should have to have a good balance in our natural resources, then this big men's shoe is the consumption that we have right now.
the first tendency in the environment committee of parliament was to send the whole thing back to you and let the commission do its homework.
i also propose that european agricultural subsidies be linked directly to sustainability.
to give an example: the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
i was pleased to hear commissioner dimas speak about the importance of natural resources during his last visit to the environment committee.
what can we do together to ensure that environmental and working conditions play an important role in trade negotiations?
i therefore wish you, council and commission, every success in creating a good transatlantic working environment.
as martine roure rightly said, it is not just anyone who has made such statements, it is opinion leaders, it is members of government who contribute to a climate in which hatred and violence become normal.
such things happen in a climate created by people who are guilty of homophobic speech.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
the commission has also been criticized by a large part of the outside world for wanting to buy energy.
it shows very clearly how this can be done, regional clustering of activities, specialisation, research and development geared to sustainability and employment.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
mr president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to make a number of points in this debate.
and while health is still primarily the responsibility of the member states, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety welcomes the commission's initiative to start the consultation procedure to see what is the best form of action for the european union.
the commission and parliament show their ambition for the environment and then the heads of government and ministers make solemn declarations and even make agreements, but then they do not implement the plans.
the european council welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the protection of biodiversity must be a priority in all policy areas.
the committee on agriculture and rural development sees the 2008 review of agricultural policy as a major new opportunity to tackle the decline in biodiversity.
it is fine and logical to pay farmers for their services to the environment, but this must prove its effectiveness for biodiversity and for a sustainable europe.
firstly, cases where compliance with environmental quality standards in a member state is technically impossible or entails disproportionate costs, both social and economic.
sustainable fishing, and the term 'sustainable' is clear and its meaning is also clear from what mr borg has just said and from what is in the agreement and the protocol.
sustainable fishing, in other words, where the catch in the sea is in balance with the production there and where fishing also has the least possible impact on the underwater environment.
in addition to the social and environmental problems and our concerns about the protection of european intellectual property, i would also like to mention the lack of access of european companies to the chinese market and dumping practices in china.
if that was the case then, how much more so now, in times of globalisation and internationalisation and with major international issues, for example in the fields of migration, energy, the environment and the fight against terrorism.
it must be more effective so that we can really deal with climate change, with energy policy, with immigration and with strengthening europe's role in the world.
because with a mini-convention, we get mini-democracy, mini-influence for the citizens, mini-responsibility against climate change and terrorism.
yet, the decline in biodiversity is alarming.
we need to take steps to ensure that trade is truly sustainable and that illegal trade is really tackled and disappears.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
three quarters of africa's 400 000 elephants live in this region, posing risks to the population, nature and biodiversity.
the european union has taken an essential step towards the sustainable development of our continent with its environmental directives, such as the habitats directive and the birds directive.
the areas where they apply are often included in natura 2000. and this european network of protected natural areas of the member states is at the heart of eu environmental policy and for the conservation and restoration of biodiversity.
it will greatly enhance the protection of nature and the environment.
politicians easily succumb to the pressure of short-term economic interests, rather than showing courage for a clean environment for future generations.
and the construction of this road must not be contrary to european environmental laws, which poland has also signed.
this also puts their environment at risk.
international nature and environmental organizations are drawing attention to it.
for example, it contributes to the maintenance of biodiversity.
it is a fight for the conservation of biodiversity.
i myself was with a delegation from the environment committee in the rospuda valley and saw firsthand how unique and valuable this polish natural area is.
it is absolutely incomprehensible to me that the polish minister for the environment should be the one to support this project when there are good alternatives available.
the road safety aspect requires that the via baltica be built quickly, but in a well-designed way with the least possible negative impact on the environment.
developments in that region are of great importance to the european union, whether in terms of energy policy or stability in the countries concerned, also in connection with our own presence in afghanistan.
it is also important to note that this is not just about energy and energy cooperation.
in the longer term, however, i think there is still a lot of scope for energy cooperation with a country like kazakhstan.
there too, cooperation must be sought, including in the energy sector.
we will also need russia in developing further energy relations with the central asian region.
i am glad that the point i raised in the debate in the committee on the environment has been accepted.
energy is perhaps the most important example.
it would make a particularly important contribution to the transparency of russian market rules and would greatly improve the investment climate.
everything has been said about energy, so that's why i'm stopping now.
i too am a strong supporter of sectoral inquiries and when it comes to energy policy you have the support of this parliament.
at the moment, everyone is pushing from the member states to prepare for the summit next weekend, and there too, energy policy is one of the new spearheads on the agenda.
at the same time, i see that while the leaders of national governments say 'we must have a common energy policy', they are not prepared to give up their protection of the national champions.
the main subjects discussed were energy, tourism, water in the acp countries, the promotion of peace and security, problems of fisheries in the countries and, of course, the epas, the new trade agreements.
in addition to coordination, the financial sustainability of different systems is a particular concern.
they contribute to a climate of intolerance and hatred.
it is clear that in the 21st century we need a real full-fledged internal energy market.
of course, the interests of the citizens must be protected, because you are right to say that energy is a specific commodity.
finally, i am very pleased that the report now expresses very clearly a longstanding wish of the liberals, namely that by creating a genuine level playing field and incorporating the external environmental costs into the price, renewable energy sources will finally be able to compete well with other energy sources, because that will certainly benefit our environment.
the conclusion in the netherlands is that we will move towards a separation of energy supply and network management.
if this happens in the rest of europe, it will be good news for dutch energy companies.
it is also good news for the development of renewable energy.
because only through full ownership can we open up the energy market to new suppliers, and that is badly needed.
the energy giants are reluctant to invest in capacity expansion for new entrants.
access to networks is often difficult due to a lack of transparency, leading to huge delays, for example in the wind energy sector.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
barometers can break or leak and mercury still gets into the environment.
good governance requires a balanced approach that balances environmental and economic aspects at global, european and national levels.
i agree with the rapporteur that environmental protection and sustainability are important.
it is precisely from the point of view of sustainability that maritime transport is so important.
local, regional and rural policy also has a responsibility for the sustainability and conservation of these areas, and i believe that subsidiarity must apply here, particularly where land is concerned.
and then, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to another important aspect of our trade relations with china, namely the european export of secondary raw materials such as waste paper.
as a result, as of 12 july, waste paper and other recyclable materials are considered the most hazardous waste.
in conclusion, others have referred to the need for china to consciously build up the standards it operates in relation to social, labour and environmental standards.
i am personally very committed to growing technology transfer with china on climate change projects.
this is a key way to ensure chinese interest in tackling climate change.
the eu can export energy-efficient, clean technology and china can make a contribution to tackling its environmental problems.
this is at the heart of our dialogue with china on climate change and it is something in the trade realm that i intend to build up in the future.
it is very important to have these talks with the russians on more transparent energy relations, on the problems in our shared neighbourhood, but also to be able to restart the human rights dialogue, the democracy debate between russia and the european union, but also to be able to further develop our multilateral agenda, whether it concerns iran, the future of the united nations system, kyoto and so on.
the serious environmental pollution and the complicated status of trade unions do not fit into what is normal in europe.
then we look at the black sea region, where there are many problems around energy, trade, tackling crime, and where cooperation between countries is possible with the support of the european union.
finally, and this is also well stated in the report: ukraine plays a key role in the energy supply in europe in terms of distribution and transport, but also in terms of putting its own energy economy in order.
i would ask you again to reconsider your position on amendment no 45.
in its communication, the commission, not for the first time, argues that logistics play an important role in meeting all sorts of new challenges, for example in the field of the environment.
they put the 100 ml bottles in there very nicely - they often end up in the waste bin because you forgot what the rule was - and civil rights are not being violated very seriously and abuse is also quite possible.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
with many climate scientists predicting a warming climate with a greater risk of extreme droughts, it is good to take preventive measures to limit the effects of drought, such as desertification.
a harmonious relationship with this strategic partner, the people's republic of china, is important, but not at any price, so that what the rapporteur states in her report, 'that human rights dialogues are an essential part of the union's overall strategy to promote sustainable development, peace and stability', will be put into practice alongside theory.
the left was concerned mainly with the right to housing, income, amenities, participation, a clean environment, peace and freedom from colonial occupation, not only for those who already have the right, but especially for all those who cannot yet exercise that right or who cannot exercise it sufficiently.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire is a very good one.
fossil fuels are finite, and the use of renewable energy reduces greenhouse gas emissions.
it also provides the necessary diversification to reduce our dependence on single sources of energy in the future.
the eu should work towards international agreements to use sustainability criteria for biofuels in the wto context.
biofuels are only sustainable if the entire cycle from producer to user shows optimal environmental performance.
this means that both the production and the combustion of biomass will take place in a sustainable way.
one member state has more potential for solar energy, for example, while another has more potential for wind energy.
a support system is most effective when it is tailored to the renewable energy sources with the greatest potential, and that varies, mr president, from one member state to another.
- mr thomsen has written an excellent report on renewable energy and i wholeheartedly support her commitment and ambition of 25%.
climate change is a huge challenge, but fighting climate change also offers great opportunities.
opportunities in the field of new technologies and clean and sustainable energy.
in addition to established technologies such as wind turbines and solar panels, there are likely to be energy sources such as one kilometer-high wind, solar mirrors, tidal energy, wave energy, geothermal energy and algae-based fuels.
investing in renewable energy has more benefits than just reducing co2.
it reduces dependence on third countries, it breaks the dominance of the big energy giants and it leads not only to enormous innovation but also to new jobs, some 1 million jobs.
firstly, the need for disengagement; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
i hope that the proposals put forward by the european commission this week on this point can be strengthened a little more, that the pressure of the energy monopolists can be resisted and that the proposals can be prevented from being watered down.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive.
some biofuels have a very negative impact on biodiversity and food prices.
but under strict conditions, biofuels can make a good contribution to a more sustainable energy supply, but then there must be guarantees that tropical forests are not cut down to fill our cars.
the trend is now towards generous subsidies for renewable energy.
instead of providing subsidies, we should oblige energy companies to make a large part of their production sustainable.
since our party, the dutch socialist party, attaches great importance to renewable energy sources and believes that much more extensive efforts should be made in this field, we did not vote against this report.
firstly, we strongly reject nuclear energy as a sustainable renewable energy source.
we also oppose the idea of liberalising energy markets at european level.
finally, we believe that solar, wind and hydroelectric energy are better alternatives to biofuels.
if you listen to the universities, to the nano-industry, to the emerging climate-related industry, there's support for that.
nevertheless, the new institute with its knowledge innovation communities can contribute and i hope that the eit can make a good contribution and excel in the field of climate policy, because there is a lot of renewal and innovation needed in this area.
the time is ripe for concrete steps towards a european external energy policy.
significantly, our energy commissioner, mr piebalgs, called this gas pipeline 'the embodiment of the existence of a common european energy policy'.
the new nabucco coordinator will have a pressing task to perform and, on behalf of the eu, mr van aartsen will also have to be alert to further russian infiltration attempts into this important energy diversification project.
the result will be a fragmentation of the european energy market; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
statements by politicians and other opinion leaders contribute to a climate of hatred and intolerance, in which discrimination is commonplace and so the law remains a dead letter.
finally, mr president, the laws are important and it is very good that we have this law, but we are all here to ensure that the climate remains such that discrimination no longer occurs.
there is a constant threat of israeli disruption of energy supplies.
the proposals on the inclusion of the sector in the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme, the agreement with the united states and the revision of landing rights are some examples.
however, much remains to be done to reduce the harmful environmental and health effects of pesticides.
the committee on industry also makes some good suggestions for introducing incentives to produce more sustainable products.
in the debate on pesticides, mr president, i have always tried to adopt a realistic and balanced attitude between the interests of the environment on the one hand and the interests of producers and consumers on the other.
the netherlands has been applying this since the year 2000 and it has been shown to reduce environmental risks by 86%.
the environment committee has approved an amendment to create a 10 metre buffer.
it is still green and agricultural, but the 10 metre buffer zone proposed by the environment committee would make farming in this area virtually impossible.
the authorisation system: i will simply say that three climate zones are preferable to 27 member states, taking account of national circumstances, of course.
the automobile industry has tried to prevent or at least delay the introduction of measures to reduce co2 emissions by all possible means.
it seems that they have persuaded a large number of my colleagues, including the rapporteur, although fortunately the committee on the environment was aware of its role.
we must take drastic measures to protect the environment now.
the amendment aims to increase the maximum co2 emission limit and to move the agreed date from 2012 to 2015. this is putting commercial interests ahead of environmental interests and we cannot allow that to happen.
mr president, road transport is a major source of pollution.
in 2005, transport, cars and trucks, accounted for 27% of total greenhouse gas emissions.
if we want to tackle climate change, we can't bypass the auto industry.
without action, emissions will rise and not fall.
years ago, the car manufacturers themselves made a covenant to reduce emissions.
the need for a common energy policy and a common foreign policy is now being met.
the european parliament has not today responded to the wish of environmental fundamentalists to establish unworkable rules for the sustainable use of pesticides.
the environment committee's proposal to ban the use of pesticides within 10 metres of the waterfront was the main stumbling block.
the result of the vote is a compromise between environmental protection and workable rules for governments and businesses.
this house recently voted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety not to opt for a european smoking ban at this time, but to leave those measures to the member states.
and that means that i am asking for attention to social cohesion, logistics, transport and energy.
media and politicians are creating a very intolerant and dangerous climate for non-muslim minorities in turkey.
the energy relationship is of great importance and we too believe that reciprocity should be the starting point, but we must also realize that we are dealing here with a form of mutual independence which we must try to manage better together.
my oral amendment is: ‘and to promote the application of eu environmental standards to large-scale mining and water barrage projects’.
all sectors will have to do their part to tackle the climate problem, including the european automotive industry.
i am in favour of better information to consumers about the environmental performance of cars, as is now done with refrigerators and washing machines, for example, but i voted against the proposal to make 'cigarette-like' warnings mandatory in all advertising and marketing materials for the automotive industry.
it is now about an equal partnership to tackle together issues affecting both continents, such as security, trade, migration and climate change, for example.
the economic partnership agreements currently being negotiated can be a good instrument for this, provided that - and i emphasize this - sustainable development is at the heart of the matter and provided that it is more than a european trade agreement.
it goes without saying that good governance, a functioning rule of law and sustainable democracy are prerequisites for stability and development.
the reason for this pride is the possession of nuclear energy and possibly even nuclear weapons, like india, pakistan and israel, which have not signed the non-proliferation treaty.
the commission has already proposed a strategy for the protection of the environment, and the council has already proposed a directive on the protection of the environment.
sustainable soil management is already mentioned in 33 european directives, for example in the water framework directive.
finally, with 40 signatures, i have tabled a large number of proposals, amendments to put even more emphasis on soil quality and protection and to respond to new challenges such as climate change, but there must be no legislation at european level.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy.
we can't meet the climate target of minus 20 or minus 30 percent by 2020 without everybody putting money in their pockets.
the airline industry in particular does not want to be taken too hard, but we hear that from all sectors and if we appease everyone, climate policy will not be any good.
i think 80% of the emissions really should be the upper limit.
the environment committee rightly wants this ceiling to be gradually lowered in line with the european climate objective of minus 20 or minus 30%.
the environment committee wants to keep them on this, and that is good, because the more economical, the cleaner.
the proceeds of the auction should go towards fighting climate change, but also, and above all, adaptation to climate change in developing countries.
the least developed countries contribute little to climate change, but they do bear the brunt of its effects.
the proposal to integrate aviation into the emissions trading system should be a clear signal from the european union to contribute to the ambitious reduction targets agreed earlier this year.
i therefore wholeheartedly support the line taken by the committee on the environment.
the environment committee was facing the transport committee.
the climate is hot and green voting is extremely sexy.
this is also a very ambitious plan compared to the emissions trading system in industry.
but, mr president, what did our committee on the environment do?
europe must show leadership, but leadership is not just about leading, but also about convincing and winning others over, and that in the highly competitive environment of international aviation.
the new regulation must therefore not lead to high costs and red tape, especially for european airlines, but must be beneficial for the climate.
the overall climate gain must be realised and preferably globally.
the commission and the european parliament must work together to achieve the single european sky, because that means five times more environmental benefits.
i hope, mr president, that we can increase pressure on the member states on this point too, because only then can we really make a difference on the climate.
i hope that next year the commission will set a good example, starting with the european environment.
in this connection i would also like to ask whether we can expect to see any further development of the external dimension of energy policy which this parliament called for earlier this year.
and only together, with poor countries, will we be able to find adequate answers to problems such as migration, energy and climate change.
i would like to take this opportunity today to place disaster management and prevention in a somewhat broader context, namely that of climate change.
in the light of the forthcoming bali climate conference, it is important to articulate the european parliament's position on climate policy as succinctly as possible.
now that the european union is making a strong commitment to climate policy, it is time for other parts of the world to follow, including those countries that have not yet ratified the kyoto protocol.
i see the bali conference as the right moment to think together about climate policy actions beyond 2012. a global concerted effort will be needed to preserve the quality of creation and to ensure our safety.
these countries have so far contributed little to climate change, but they are bearing the brunt of its effects.
europe must help and extend its hand to these countries to help them adapt to climate change, and it must invest in technology transfer.
nevertheless, they are often seen as a foreign element in this now predominantly muslim environment.
europe is suspected of being concerned mainly with its own energy supply, with securing its own transport routes and with favouring ethnic or religious minorities who are most sympathetic to europe.
it touches on fundamental differences in understanding of the possibility of combating poverty through sustainable economic growth in acp countries.
competitiveness, a good investment climate, market access, manufacturing industries are essential for economic growth in the acp countries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the air has become cleaner over the last 30 years, but there is still far too much air pollution.
to better tackle pollution, a revision of the air quality directive is needed.
my group has consistently advocated the setting of more ambitious standards for particulate matter and other pollutants harmful to man and the environment.
that's pollution that you can't see or smell, but it's particles that cause the most health damage, causing hundreds of thousands of europeans to die prematurely.
parliament has urged the council and the commission to adopt rapidly complementary policies to tackle the sources of pollution.
president, on behalf of my colleague mr blokland, who is currently attending the bali climate conference, the following contribution: after long negotiations, an agreement on air quality is finally reached.
it is also very important because air quality has a direct impact on human health and the environment.
this directive makes a real contribution to improving the environment and health.
mr president, what is not clear - at least not to me - is whether the blockage in dutch legislation for a number of projects by the comprehensive environmental and spatial planning authorization is now really off the table.
it is now up to the netherlands to use the link between spatial planning and environmental policy wisely, so that unnecessary blockages do not have to be raised again.
we are continuing with all kinds of directives, bird and habitat directives, environmental directives, animal welfare standards, etc.
the protection of human health and the environment goes hand in hand with economic development.
let this strategy truly be a new start for sustainable development in africa.
on the other hand, i am still disturbed by the fact that there is a trade in outdated technology with negative environmental effects, especially from the developing countries.
in theory, montenegro may be a beautiful ecological state and an ideal development, but podgorica must make this happen in the long term.
montenegro must do more to combat environmental pollution and cigarette smuggling.