the third issue is the security and stability of energy supplies.
europe urgently needs a common energy policy aimed at ensuring security of supply, solidarity and the removal of barriers in the common energy market, as well as investment in new sources.
it covers energy solidarity, neighbourhood policy, social security and relations with third countries that try to divide europeans.
the european union cannot tolerate a situation in which exports of european-made arms may contribute to human rights violations, escalation of conflicts or misappropriation of sustainable development funds in different regions of the world.
they would relieve the burden of an inefficient road system and have a positive impact on the environment.
however, the exclusions in the field of unfair competition and environmental protection leading to their inclusion in special provisions unnecessarily complicate european private law and are in contradiction with the general action of deregulation and simplification of our law.
mr medina-ortega mentioned a number of specific issues, including environmental protection and competitiveness issues.
energy security and the fight against adverse climate change are at the forefront.
the next item is the report by frédérique ries, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the promotion of healthy eating and physical activity: a european dimension in the prevention of overweight, obesity and chronic diseases (2006/2231 (ini)) (a6-0450/2006).
particular attention should be paid to the health of children and young people and the environment in which children spend most of their time, i.e.
intensive agricultural production, which encourages and indirectly forces farmers to do so, is not only damaging to the environment but also to our health.
if so, then the question is of a fundamental nature: why do so many bright people in public office support the development of genetically modified food, succumb to lobbyists and numerous interest groups promoting and marketing products harmful to humans and their natural environment, tolerate, or even worse, create the conditions for the globalization of agriculture and the displacement of healthy food-producing family farms by the deepening degradation of the soil and the natural environment of large-scale farms?
the promotion of tourism in the region must go hand in hand with the provision of more tourism services by the islanders themselves in order to ensure the sustainability of the tourism sector and maximise the benefits to the local economy.
the adoption of such a document is an excellent opportunity to establish new relations with this region, both economically and politically, which islands play a very important role in stabilising the climate and possess an extraordinary wealth of natural resources, minerals and fish.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the 'european strategy for the environment' (2007-2013) and a communication on the 'european strategy for the environment' (2008-2013).
the definition of waste is very broad.
however, it seems that we should call waste, with a clear definition, those residues of production processes which we cannot use as raw materials or additives to other production processes at the current stage of development of technological processes.
a lot of waste can be recycled in this way, but unfortunately, a lot of it can't be recycled in any way.
over the years, more than 150,000 tons of waste from a nearby plant protection plant has accumulated there.
we don't know how to destroy this and other waste, what to do with it.
i ask that the environmental protection agency and research institutes become more involved in developing ways to dispose of chemical waste.
the consumer lifestyle of europeans is responsible for the generation and storage of an increasing amount of waste and therefore recycling proposals are an important element of prevention.
however, introducing such complex legislation in a directive covering many different waste streams and different treatment methods will be a difficult task, especially for local governments and small businesses.
poorer local authorities in the new member states, with no experience of waste separation and no funds, may not be able to cope, and in addition, the strictly imposed penalties that member states will face for not implementing the provisions of the directive will impoverish even more local authorities, small and medium-sized enterprises, causing us to eventually run out of money to achieve environmental goals.
mrs jackson's report on waste and mr blochland's report on recycling are of great importance to us, to the environment.
this disqualifies the use of this waste for fertilisation.
it also shows that the process of environmental pollution is a continuous process.
in eastern europe in particular, there are landfills of expired pesticides, waste that is left over from plants that have been decommissioned, leaving buildings and land often contaminated.
the effectiveness of action in this area is limited by: lack of knowledge about the harmfulness of waste and its disposal (schools and media should provide constant information on this subject); lack of resources for waste management, especially in poor municipalities (such municipalities should receive support from national and european union funds); insufficient exchange of best practices in this area.
the european union's economies generate huge amounts of industrial waste and increasing amounts of municipal waste.
the average person produces half a ton of waste a year.
the most beneficial and sustainable way to tackle the problem of waste is to prevent it from being generated.
our wasteful and wasteful use of natural resources has a huge impact on the environment.
however, we can effectively counteract this by taking preventive measures: reducing the quantity, reusing the products, and recycling the waste and recovering secondary raw materials.
this concerns the change of status of the waste thermal disposal plant to waste thermal energy plant.
the reclassification of waste incineration plants will mean that, in the light of eu law, the transport of waste to be incinerated between eu countries will be legal - the transport is legal for waste to be transformed.
this will contribute significantly to the influx of waste into the new member states from the richer parts of the union, where waste incineration is much more expensive.
in poland alone, up to nine new waste incineration plants, which are currently in the planning phase, could be built with eu funds.
this would be a very unfavourable use of eu money for the environment and society.
the situation in which a few poorer european countries become the incinerator of the whole of europe, thus emitting huge amounts of carbon dioxide, is unacceptable.
waste incineration contributes to climate change and pollution and increases our dependence on imports of valuable materials that could be recovered through recycling.
a similar position was taken by four visegrad group environment ministers in may 2006. i therefore appeal to all members to take these concerns into account and not to vote for the change in the classification of waste.
the directive provides that the harmonisation of terminology and definitions of waste is to improve the efficiency of waste management in the community.
for example, a definition of material recycling has been introduced which says that it is 'the recovery and processing of waste into products, materials or substances for use for their original purpose or other purposes', but does not specify what these 'other purposes' are.
nor does it distinguish between goods which may become waste and materials and substances.
in its view, for example, own scrap in the mills can be treated as waste, which completely bypasses the recycling loop through the market to the plant and can become an element of abuse.
these are: ensuring energy security for all of europe, not just for selected european countries.
in the same area, there are incentives for renewable energy.
this time we must pay particular attention to the problem of the common energy policy, which is a very important political and social issue at the moment.
it should be borne in mind that the recent increase in energy prices will become an increasing problem for global energy markets and economic development in the future.
a clear european energy policy strategy has not yet been formulated.
the european energy policy, on the other hand, is a matter of common action and solidarity.
the european commission president, barroso, rightly pointed out this afternoon that if we want our partners to take us seriously on energy policy, the union must speak with one voice, not twenty-seven.
solidarity is particularly needed to ensure the security of energy supplies.
the european union must have a unified position in its talks with the main energy suppliers in order to achieve a solid, long-term partnership and energy cooperation agreements.
in addition, energy policy is also indirectly linked to the priorities of the new lisbon strategy, namely boosting economic growth and developing the labour market.
to maintain sustainable growth, we also need to strengthen the environmental and social dimension of the lisbon strategy, in particular in the context of job creation.
energy supplies from the russian federation play an important role in meeting europe’s energy needs, accounting for nearly 30% of the eu’s oil imports and 44% of our gas imports.
at the same time, 67% of russia’s oil and gas exports are delivered to the european market and, given the mutual importance of this relationship, an energy dialogue was established in 2000 between the russian federation and the eu to discuss energy-related issues, including energy policy, market developments, infrastructure and eu-russia energy cooperation on technology and energy efficiency.
in addition, there is a roadmap for the common economic space that was agreed during the eu-russia summit in may 2005, and that includes cooperation on wide-ranging issues of energy and related activities.
it is now intended that this will include a comprehensive agreement on energy.
let me also point out that in the recent communication, ‘an energy policy for europe’, the commission formulated quite a number of proposals to mitigate our growing dependence on external energy supplies and to increase our energy security.
they include increased energy efficiency, promotion of renewable energy sources, the diversification of energy supplies, proper functioning of the internal market and internal solidarity mechanisms to cope with possible supply interruptions, including through cooperation with the international energy agency.
furthermore, the importance of strengthening our relations with all our key energy suppliers and transit countries and for the eu to speak with a single voice is also underlined in the communication.
in response to recent interruptions in the energy supply field from russia through belarus, the commission also convened meetings earlier this year of both the gas coordination group and the oil support group, which comprised, inter alia, representatives of the member states.
these meetings to which the third countries concerned were invited to give information then reviewed the impact on the eu’s internal energy security of the events in question and how to respond.
finally, with reference to the area of strengthening energy dialogue, the commission is committed to maintaining and to reinforcing our energy relations, not only with the russian federation, but also with other important energy-producing countries and regions like norway, the countries of the opec, the gulf cooperation council, the countries of the caspian and the black sea basins, central asia and north africa through bilateral agreements and energy dialogues.
i would like to thank the european commission for its interest in the supply of energy resources to all the member states, but i would like to point out that russia - in my view - continues to use the supply of these resources as an attempt to exert political influence on the member states and third countries.
i share the need for a fundamental reform of the common organisation of the market in wine and for the adjustment of the production structure so that a competitive and sustainable european wine sector can emerge.
the aid in the form of a grant of eur 45 million will be a positive signal from the european union, especially in the light of moscow's ban on the import of moldovan wines and the increase in energy prices.
i voted in favour of the resolution on climate change because i believe that there is an urgent need to define eu strategies to deal with a problem of such importance to mankind.
the eu member states and the european commission are faced with a major challenge: how to promote economic development while respecting the environment?
experts call for reducing co2 emissions, promoting research and innovation in renewable and energy-efficient technologies.
cooperation with non-eu countries is also important, and above all raising awareness among people about the risks posed by climate change.
however, we must realise that reducing emissions and pollution will have additional costs for european businesses and citizens in the short term.
given that countries such as china, brazil and india emit more carbon dioxide and other toxic substances every year, the union should help them to switch to cleaner and more energy-efficient production.
trade in so-called green technology and the development of renewable energy sources should be promoted.
we are jointly responsible, and the commission in particular, for the good use and waste of money, or for its appropriation by the hochstapler, the dictator, the wealthy multinational corporations, the clever intermediaries and sometimes even some of the european union's agents and representatives.
indeed, in favourable circumstances, budgetary assistance can be a powerful tool to help achieve the european union's objectives of development aid, sustainable economic and social development, the smooth and gradual integration of developing countries into the world economy, the fight against poverty, economic and employment growth, and the development and consolidation of democracy.
in debating energy prices and energy security today, it is necessary to mention that the high fuel prices are not only due to the increased demand for oil in the world, but also to the situation in the middle east and the war in iraq, which my group, the league of polish families, has opposed from the very beginning.
today, many households and households across europe are feeling the negative effects of high energy prices, and the prospect of high prices for a long time is already causing major changes in the economy.
instead of working on price increases, the european commission should focus on promoting alternative energy sources, energy-efficient technologies, renewable sources, and improving energy security across europe.
we agree with the honourable members that this dialogue should be regular and substantive, and that the respective parties should refrain from taking any step that would compromise the establishment of a climate of confidence.
another initial funding package of eur 4 million is in the process of being drawn up for people suffering inside iraq, based on a careful assessment of priority needs and aid delivery arrangements in what is a highly volatile security environment, as you can imagine.
the strikes are a protest against inflation, unemployment, energy and water shortages, and high prices for basic goods.
the last european council summit, which focused on climate change and the union's common energy policy, was a time of solidarity.
i am aware that the concept of corporate social responsibility is becoming an increasingly important part of the debate on globalisation, competitiveness and sustainable development.
by definition, companies are voluntarily taking social and environmental issues into account in their activities.
in the exercise of their social responsibility on a voluntary basis, companies choose to go beyond minimum legal requirements and collective agreements to take account of social and environmental needs.
all the laws we have made - consumer protection, labour protection, environmental protection, social benefits - are laws that force corporations to be socially responsible and set the standards we believe are essential to be met.
it is difficult to regulate the legal situation of a given environment without first hearing the views of the parties themselves.
it is clear that the rich in particular are getting richer and safer, while the poor are getting poorer, and this is also reflected in sustainable development, equal opportunities and equal treatment, or the principle of subsidiarity, which for european citizens is a perverse one: the weak enrich the strong and the poor the rich.
thank you for presenting your strategy for 2008. as regards the priorities set out by the commissioner, i would like to stress our commitment to environmental protection, in particular the prevention of climate change, the need for a common energy policy, the implementation of the social agenda and the enlargement issue.
promoting high environmental standards will give us recognition and strengthen our place in the world.
in this type of air contract, the synchronisation of legal provisions is of particular importance, especially in the areas of safety, environmental protection and social rights of workers.
we must move from our present situation with greater energy to achieve a unified position in the preparation of the points which we have seen as setbacks in 2005. i would like to emphasize this point: of course, this nuclear non-proliferation treaty has come under pressure from various quarters, but if we are serious about it and after agreeing on the common position of 2005, it provides a basis which we must now also take into account in the current preparatory conference.
this issue must remain on the agenda with a view to the peaceful use of nuclear energy, even if there are some differences of opinion on how to minimise the risks.
finally, the fundamental problem is the living conditions of children and young people, which are determined by social, health, educational and environmental conditions.
this concerns the information society, the digital world, energy liberalisation and trade instruments.
of course, environmental issues and the needs of airline staff cannot be ignored.
everyone around the european union has learned that the union can be solidary in energy matters.
it has given a clear signal that it wants this solidarity and it has given a clear signal that we want to build the future of the european union on the basis of a solidarity approach to the question of energy security.
i think that what has happened in the last few months has made everyone in the european union aware of the importance of energy security, not just for the economy but even, in the extreme case, simply for the living standards of the individual citizens of the european union.
it is good that the union is setting itself ambitious targets to tackle this very important issue for the future of europe, the problem of climate change.
the idea is that energy policy should also serve this purpose.
energy solidarity will serve, it can serve freedom.
how can innovation and solidarity be combined in energy policy?
as for energy policy, the target of 20% renewable energy, the use of fossil fuels, including coal, should not blind us to the current energy problems.
the current situation with gas supplies from russia - the gas crisis in belarus and ukraine - is a test for our energy policy and security in general and should be a lesson for us, not just a fleeting ephemeral.
the recent actions of the commission on the ecological concern for the rospud valley, while there was no such vote on the construction of the baltic gas pipeline, show how selective, inconsistent and inconsistent these actions are.
the energy problem is now a test for european solidarity, and this solidarity will be the energy for its future development.
the question is therefore whether this agreement on energy will give energy and courage to all those who want to make the difficult decisions about the future of europe.
i am in favour of the emphasis on the exchange of good environmental practice.
because even if global warming is a global myth, the environment itself is a priceless asset.
wages, prices of materials, energy, etc., and does not examine whether the entrepreneur bears the costs of social security contributions for employees or whether he bears the costs of complying with environmental protection standards.
the guidelines prepared for the council are a coherent and comprehensive document containing the elements needed to create a satisfactory environment for cooperation.
the rapporteur stresses the important role of political dialogue, the promotion of sustainable development and education, human rights, but also the fight against drug trafficking, arms trafficking and organised crime.
the european parliament's recommendations stress that the objectives of association agreements are the gradual liberalisation of trade, political dialogue and cooperation, the promotion of sustainable social development, social cohesion, the consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and full respect for human rights and civil, political, economic and social rights, while taking into account the cultural and environmental dimensions of these rights.
the liberalization of trade cannot be an end in itself, but a way to consolidate democracy and the rule of law, social development and sustainable development in latin america.
another very important element of the future association agreement seems to be the definition of environmental standards.
transport difficulties, the scarcity of raw materials, the high cost of energy supply, the difficulty of accessing the internet and telecommunications networks, the difficult topographical conditions, especially in the mountains and in the far north, depopulation and illegal immigration are the main problems addressed in the report.
any commission should consider granting special aid to these regions as well, as fuel and energy costs have a clear negative impact on their competitiveness.
the energy security of the islands and the implementation of the project in this area, based on renewable energy sources and new technologies, are another priority.
the commission should also examine the impact of climate change on island regions.
member states must not forget to ensure that the exceptional nature of island regions is effectively protected in terms of environmental protection, cultural wealth and the sustainable development of tourism, which is also a factor in the growth of other sectors such as trade, fisheries and agriculture.
secondly, it is essential that local governments are able to provide the most important services for human development, such as education, health care and culture, and to meet basic needs such as water supply, waste disposal and public transport.
there are institutions that are very much involved in education, health, the environment and entrepreneurship.
the union is committed to environmental protection and sustainable development, and is an active and visible player on the international stage, bringing stability and prosperity to its neighbours.
we are facing new challenges: global economic competition, new challenges in the areas of social policy, environmental protection, energy and security.
we should have a common energy policy.
in recent weeks, the european press has been writing about the conflict between the polish authorities and environmental organizations defending the unique rospudy valley complex, a protected area under the natura 2000 programme.
while i appreciate the previous efforts of the commissioner for the environment, stavros dimas, i am deeply concerned that no way has been found to resolve this impasse and reach a compromise with the polish government without unnecessarily antagonising the polish public.
to prevent football from becoming a tool of lawlessness and violence, we need a rapid and radical reform of the football environment, that is, of the business environment, including the media.
it covers not only classical foreign and security aspects, including the question of nuclear arms, but also a very large range of non-conventional threats to democracy, peace and security on such topics as terrorism, poverty, energy security, climate change and so forth.
the financing system for food security, energy and environmental issues requires particular work.
we heard similar arguments years ago as regards the ‘polluter pays’ principle for the environment.
let us not forget that, whilst some industries have to create some pollution to do business, in the competition environment there is no need and no excuse for infringements.
the legal environment in which the victims of antitrust infringements currently find themselves is not acceptable.
i would like to thank you for the stimulating debate here this evening on how we might gradually improve this legal environment, and i look forward to parliament’s vote on the report.
the package of regulations promotes greater responsibility for safety, promotes the protection of life and the environment, but it will cost.
waste of space is reduced to a minimum.
the eco-management and audit scheme was launched in 2002 to improve energy performance, consumption of resources and emissions checks in buildings.
the commission is currently developing a new life-cycle cost methodology to assess the technical quality of buildings, including energy efficiency.
it seems that this directive should be linked to the provisions on the assessment and prevention of the risks of drought, which are increasingly causing enormous material and environmental losses.
seasonal and regional variations in waste, long-term climate change and lack of coordination between countries have led to severe flooding, which accounts for 43% of all natural disasters in europe.
trends in the frequency and intensity of floods in the future will also be closely linked to meteorological conditions, climate change and river flow changes.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the ozone layer is a very important one.
since then, natural resources have dwindled, but we've made tremendous technological progress, learned to use resources and energy better, and have access to resources that we couldn't even dream of using 50 years ago.
however, there is a need to step up efforts to make better use of post-production waste, which not only reduces environmental pollution but also contributes to better use of natural resources.
only by maintaining proportions together can we stop russia from abusing its military and energy power in europe and the neighbourhood.
for example, we're better at renewable energy, americans are better at clean coal technology.
the negotiations were aimed at concluding an agreement which reflects the importance of eu-ukraine relations and opens up new prospects, such as the prospect of a deeper partnership in the energy sector.
so first of all, we should start serious talks with the ukrainians about close energy cooperation.
sound public finances are the basis for sustainable economic development.
in this year's report, the european parliament therefore encourages member states to take advantage of the good economic climate to make the necessary adjustments in the public finance sector and to accelerate structural reforms, such as reforms of the labour market, the services sector and the reduction of administrative burdens on businesses.
i am confident that the swiss funds will be rationally used for innovative activities, including research, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and environmental protection and regional development.
zimbabwe is, as my predecessor mentioned, one of the world's leading producers of this type of waste.
these capacities must be understood as complementary activities of a research-technological, legal-financial, economic-commercial, organisational-administrative, energy-environmental, educational, social, health-related and cultural nature, in other words, covering the whole range of activities.
this is to serve the real cohesion of the union, to be a testimony to the harmonized sustainable development and the community solidarity we have spoken of many times here.
let's not waste time, money or energy, let's reach for solutions, they are not easy, but who said that only easy problems should be solved?
pro-innovation policy depends on a broadly available pro-innovation education, on advanced scientific research, on a well-functioning single market, on the synergy effect of enlargement, on a community patent-licensing strategy, on the creation of a european innovation centre, a technology institute, on the creative implementation of european union legislation on substances, energy, the environment, etc.
mep filip kaczmarek stresses that the concentration and coordination of initiatives and cooperation in the region could be of value in addressing the issue of illegal refugee flows, border security, food and environmental security, arms control, education and infrastructure development and the establishment of political dialogue between the countries of the horn of africa.
this is encouraging and gives hope for the future, but the question is whether such a policy will be sustainable in the future.
will the vast energy resources that russia possesses not allow, will they not create the conditions for dividing the european union into better and worse partners according to russian criteria?
speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on the life+ environment instrument, i would like to draw attention to the following points: firstly, the life+ instrument for 2007-2013 is a continuation of most of the programmes already implemented by the directorate-general for environment, such as the life 3 programme, the programme supporting sustainable urban development or the ngo programme.
fourthly, the council also took into account the parliament's position that at least 50% of the life+ budget will be allocated to projects for the protection of nature and biodiversity.
i would like to thank mrs isler béguin for her report on the financial instrument for the environment (life+).
the fund will be used to a large extent to mitigate changes that occur as a result of the greenhouse effect, drought, floods, and that are not conducive to forests, nature and biodiversity.
in particular, equal opportunities in education, health care, environmental protection.
so we need a policy of solidarity in equalisation and a policy of solidarity in sustainable development.
the principle that free trade policies will contribute to economic growth, job creation and sustainable development in the world needs to be better explained to citizens.
provided it's more sustainable, more fair, more partnership-based.
and, very importantly for us, inspired by our european social and environmental standards.
on the other hand, there are european environmental and social standards.
first, the development of trade covered by the report cannot be an objective in itself, but must be seen in terms of its impact on economic growth, including european output, on trends in the european labour market and on the sustainability of the european union as a whole.
i am also glad that one or two honourable members have focused on the issue of labour conditions, social conditions and environmental conditions amongst our trading partners.
i passionately believe that sustainable development, which touches on all those issues, is an overarching objective for trade policy as well.
one trade and environment issue that we have pursued vigorously in the doha talks, but which some countries have opposed, is lowering tariffs on environmental goods.
many environmental problems could be addressed by helping this trade.
in addition to his reference to our pursuit of zero taxes for an agreed list of environmental goods, i believe and i accept that we need to examine and find a way to deal with the free-rider issue in respect of climate-friendly policies and in connection with the kyoto protocol.
in the long term this is going to become an increasingly important feature of the climate change debate.
i think it is premature to think of a carbon tax.
we must be careful that any climate-friendly policies and instruments that we might develop in the future do not become protectionist instruments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, in the european union, there is much talk of a sustainable multilateral trading system and of developing countries participating in and benefiting from trade.
first, the need to clarify the sustainability aspect of the economic partnership agreements.
these include environmental standards, working conditions and wages, and principles of innovation.
finally, a clause on energy solidarity should be introduced in the new treaty.
it would be a good response to the threats to the energy security of the member states, which are increasingly affecting our citizens.
the vote will take place on wednesday, may 23.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading, drawn up on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down general rules for the granting of community financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks (17032/2/2006 - c6-0101/2007 - 2004/0154 (cod)) (rapporteur: mario mauro) (a6-0169/2007).
at the end of the three-year process of creating a new legal framework for the financing of joint transport and energy projects, we are aware that we are behind schedule and we are aware of the huge needs and expectations in this area, which will not be met by reducing funding from 20 to 8 billion euros.
the commission is keen to ensure effective and visible results that meet your expectations and those of european citizens and businesses who aspire to an efficient and sustainable transport system.
we have a very serious challenge in creating an energy market.
in addition, the report properly defines the areas of eu interest on which we should focus these include: the fight against terrorism, immigration, energy security and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
we are seeing changes in the security sphere, the fight against terrorism, the climate and energy issues.
he is raising the concrete issue of energy.
energy is not just a matter of the presence of energy, energy has to do with stability.
stability in terms of energy supply, economic, social and environmental.
if i listen to you carefully, and i have, i see a link between the european ideals, the way europe is going out, foreign policy, and tackling the concrete issues we are facing - mr watson's point of energy.
how can we make europe perform in the economy, in energy, in global relations?
then we'll talk about energy and climate.
that is why i have written a letter to my colleagues together with tony blair to say that we want the issue of climate and energy to be high on the european agenda.
but it must not be so, and i say this here in all clarity, that at the end of that period of reflection we have a climate in which one group is placed against the other group, in which the group of the 18 ratifiers is placed against the countries that said 'no'.
this term should be understood to mean any innovative solution to the problems encountered in the field of shaping the human environment, that is, the creation and use of its tangible and intangible products, including in the provision of services.
this is related to the efficient use of energy and materials, as well as working time and the protection of both the workplace and the environment.
it will be healthier and more economical, with a better environmental footing and a chance to increase demand for our agricultural products.
that is the main and fundamental condition to finding a sustainable solution to the situation in kashmir.
on 28 february 2007, the commission issued a reasoned opinion on an urgent basis requesting poland to comply with ec environmental law within a week.
many people die on these roads, they have the right to the best possible road standards and to move in a good and safe environment.
this lesson must be very strong, and that is why we, the liberal group, strongly support a solution which will bring about the creation of the via baltica as soon as possible, but also a breakthrough as soon as possible, namely that it is not worth insisting on bad decisions that violate the ecological sphere.
however, the ecological criteria that must be met for the project have been forgotten.
both environmental and road safety arguments are equally valid and will apply to hundreds of similar investments in poland and beyond.
the cooperation mechanism at different levels should be improved and regulatory criteria adapted to the current environmental and social situation.
to date, despite the support of over 60 members of this house, no agreement has been reached to debate the biggest environmental threat posed by the construction of the nord stream 2 pipeline under the baltic sea.
in the present situation, when ecologists and the whole of europe are witnessing the destruction of areas of great biodiversity, there is no will to discuss the ecological threat to our only inland sea, the baltic sea.
however, the selected construction project, which runs through the rospud valley, will certainly have a negative impact on the unique ecosystem of this natura 2000 protected area in europe.
the augustow bypass will cause irreversible damage to the environment, including the cutting down of 20,000 trees and the extinction of very rare species of plants and animals.
unfortunately, it should be noted that any variant of the ring road will interfere with the natural environment of the region.
the minister of the environment has not taken the opportunity to reconcile the interests of augustow's citizens and conservationists.
the environment is a very important thing, one of the most important things in the modern world.
nature is an independent part of our environment, not created by us, and it is imperative that we protect it.
but environmental protection cannot be an alibi for small groups of environmental activists who resort to blackmailing regional and national authorities.
for reasons more political than ecological, and for the expected material benefits, they try to block the construction of roads, bypasses, and airports.
a classic example of the abuse of environmental arguments is the protests against the construction of the airport in świdnik near lublin, poland.
european environmental regulations cannot be applied automatically without a case-by-case approach.
let us not forget that these investments have a significant impact on people's living standards their right to good infrastructure is at least as important as environmental considerations.
one of these obstacles is the ecological barrier, which, it should be remembered, did not limit the construction of the transport network when western europe was paving much of its territory.
various groups of environmentalists speak out for it, sometimes too loudly, forgetting that man is also an important, if not the most important, part of this ecosystem.
i personally think that the road should be built, but the permit for this construction should be accompanied by a hard list of conditions that should be met to minimize environmental damage.
any road location in this region will have negative environmental effects, but you simply cannot avoid this region.
it is possible and necessary for the commission and the government to seek effectively a solution that benefits the union, the citizens, the residents of augustow and the drivers of transit vehicles without causing excessive damage to the environment.
one is environmental, the other is political, and it's been overhyped.
it would be better if the commission took up the issue of the production of genetically modified food in europe, for example, because this is precisely why we are facing ecological and biological disaster, and the schmidt farms which are increasingly poisoning the environment with impunity.
if the commission does not decide to withdraw the complaint, it will show that it has failed to balance fairly the opinions of a small but very influential group in the environment directorate, environmental groups and eco-terrorists.
poland, lithuania, latvia need both via baltica and other road investments, as well as environmental protection, including rospudy valley.
it is not possible to isolate certain areas of the union from other regions and countries solely because of requirements arising from environmental protection rules.
on the other hand, we cannot ignore the environment by justifying all decisions with the needs of infrastructure development.
experts say that there are alternative routes that do not threaten the environment as much as the current projects.
the best solution for the region's inhabitants and future road users seems to be to find a compromise at european level so that the principle of sustainable development is not an empty slogan.
i am particularly pleased that this twelfth point contains a provision on solidarity in the energy sector, which is very important for my country.
out of this exhaustion i think that we have to muster new psychological and political energy in order to move forward.
for example, in november, at the world conference on climate change in kenya, the european union delegation sat in the place of finland, our presidency at the time.
mr president, firstly i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, mr chmielewski, and to both the committee on fisheries and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for the report.
it is therefore crucial, not only from an ecological but also from a social and economic perspective, to bring fishing into balance with resource availability as soon as possible, so that fishers can once more count on stable and high catches.
it aims at rebuilding the stocks not only towards safe biological limits but even beyond, to levels that will provide the highest sustainable catches, thus providing stability in the long term for the fishing sector concerned, by reducing total allowable catches and fishing efforts step-by-step to the levels corresponding to this objective.
however, the split into western and eastern parts is determined by scientific evidence that there are two separate cod stocks in the baltic, and not by the ecological features of the two areas.
the report proposes several amendments to the rules outlining the procedure for reducing total allowable catches and fishing effort to sustainable levels.
the commission is, however, planning a project that will monitor not only the ecological but also the socio-economic impact of the plan as a first step towards the impact assessment to be made in the third year of the application of the plan.
the objective of the basic regulation for the common fisheries policy is to ensure sustainable management in ecological, social and economic terms.
ices also recommended using relative targets such as fishing mortality instead of fixed ones such as biomass, because they are less sensitive towards scientific uncertainty and the environmental variations affecting the stock.
it is necessary to have a thorough discussion on the biomass reference point level which is adapted to the actual state of the stock and the overall situation of the baltic sea ecosystem at the present time.
this will be in line with the community's commitment to implement an ecosystem approach to fisheries management, recalling point 5 of the preamble.
i think it is clear that we share a common objective, that of ensuring the long-term sustainability of cod stocks in the baltic and thus the livelihood of the fishers in the region.
the serious situation of this stock is therefore self-evident and, while it is crucial to take account of the socio-economic perspective, it is primarily the ecological status which requires recovery, that is of paramount importance.
the efficiency of fruit and vegetable production is difficult to predict not only because of their easy spoilage, price instability and competition in third countries, but also because of the impact on its profitability of climate change and the increasing frequency of natural disasters.
i am quite sure that we will manage to find a political agreement that will benefit the whole fruit and vegetable sector within the european union, so that it will have a sustainable future, which, i presume, is what we all want.
otherwise, we will continue to waste time in complacency about our own stubbornness.
we must also convert it into a common energy policy or a common immigration policy.
we will certainly associate the german presidency with the successes of the lisbon strategy, such as: new roaming charges, liberalisation of the energy market, or finally the opening of the services and labour markets, and this is also the merit of the european commission.
every effort should be made to preserve the substance of the treaty, while introducing provisions on new challenges for europe, such as climate change, social europe, the fight against terrorism, intercultural dialogue and economic governance.
the challenge for european cultural policy is to build a dynamic cultural, creative and innovative environment in all fields of the arts.
the spent uranium rods from russian nuclear reactors stored there could explode at any moment, causing an ecological disaster whose effects experts cannot even estimate.
this is the result of the incomprehensible short-sightedness of the russian authorities and their disregard for environmental issues.
there is no doubt that the ecological bomb at the bottom of andreev bay must be disarmed immediately.
the next item is the report by mr gunnar hökmarka, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the development of a european broadband policy (2006/2273 (ini)) (a6-0193/2007).
finally, there will be the european transnational networks initiative that will help authorities planning transport and energy infrastructure and make them take account of the telecom needs as well, because deploying dacs and dac fibre alongside this infrastructure may reduce future telecom costs by 80%, so it will be very important to foresee the exploitation of synergies when making this kind of investment.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr horst schnellhardt on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the definition, description, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks (com ((2005) 0125 - c6-0440/2005 - 2005/0028 ((cod)) (a6-0035/2007).
so it is no wonder that the poles, the lithuanians, the latvians, the estonians, the swedes, the finns, the danes, do not want to recognize as vodka any waste produced in the production of wine, or whiskey, or gin.
maintaining the definition of vodka and production from waste will lower its quality and reputation.
these are unfortunately only some examples of russia's use of energy supplies as a tool for political influence on eu and non-eu countries, but also evidence of russia's lack of energy credibility.
a welcoming, family-friendly, non-discriminatory environment is essential, as is social support and flexibility in the study and traineeship process.
the rapporteur and the members who supported the extended definition supported rules that would contribute to the deterioration of the quality and flavour of vodka, which could result in a product made from various agricultural raw materials, including animal origin and post-production waste, becoming a dangerous product for the consumer.
the meeting covered a range of issues of importance to developing countries: energy, water, avian influenza, the role of regional integration in promoting peace and security, the social and environmental aspects of fisheries, the interdependence of tourism and development, and progress in negotiations on economic partnership agreements.
in view of the huge number of petitions that have been received by the committee on petitions, we have organised a special fact finding visit and in december 2005 the european parliament adopted a resolution on these petitions, concerning infringements of the directives on public procurement, environmental protection, water safety and infringements of property rights.
these policies favour sustainable economic convergence, which is the best basis for preparing countries to join the euro and to enjoy, once inside the monetary area, all the benefits of membership of the single currency.
the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safe storage and export ban of metallic mercury is a document limiting its presence in the ecosystem and its effects on humans and animals.
the union countries reduced global atmospheric mercury emissions by 60% between 1990 and 2000. meanwhile, worldwide, it's up 20 percent.
first, mercury waste should be landfilled as soon as possible, limiting the use of temporary landfills.
secondly, the distance between landfills should be as close as possible, and transport of mercury waste across europe should be avoided.
thirdly, new waste management methods cannot be introduced without their proper development and verification.
one of the most relevant measures under force majeure is agri-environment.
we need systemic action to provide not only financial support to affected fruit growers, farmers and processors, but above all solutions to prevent or mitigate the effects of natural disasters, which are becoming more frequent as a result of climate change.
the rapporteur stressed that the problem of juvenile delinquency should be addressed on the basis of four factors: family, school, peer group and environment.
since 1996, when the european union adopted its position on cuba, experience has proved that only a policy of engagement and cooperation, not one of sanctions, has the potential to promote peaceful change in cuba towards democracy, respect for human rights, the rule of law, sustainable economic recovery and improvement in the living conditions of the cuban people, as stipulated in the eu’s common position of 1996. only the establishment of an open, comprehensive and result-orientated dialogue with the cuban authorities will enable us to make the best use of the variety of instruments the eu and its member states have at their disposal to further cooperation in the fields of political relations, human rights, investment and trade, development work, scientific research, educational exchanges and culture.
the negotiating mandate adopted suggests that the new treaty may retain the most important institutional provisions of the constitutional treaty: the charter of fundamental rights, the enlarged powers of the european parliament, the appointment of a european head of state and a provision on a common energy policy.
the next item is the debate on - the report by mrs åsa westlund on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a common authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings (com (2006) 0423 - c6-0258/2006 - 2006/0143 (cod)) (a6-0153/2007) - the report by mrs åsa westlund on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on food additives (com (2006) 0428 - c6-0602/2006 - c17/017/017/017 (cod)) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a common authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings (com (2006) 0184 final) and on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 2000/83/ec (cod) no 83/26/ec (com (2006) 0425/ec) and council directive 2001/36 (cod) no 1496/ec) on the protection of the environment and of natural and of plant products (com (2006) 0146/2006) 0425/ec (cod) and regulation (a46) 14), and the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and council amending directive 2006/ec (ec (com (ec) no 1496/ec) no 1496/ec (a4/2006) and council on the protection of the environment and the use of natural and flavourings and certain flavouring substances (com (com (com (2006) 0146-046) 0425/ec) no 149 and on the european parliament and
on behalf of the uen group.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a second programme of community action in the field of health for the period 2007-2013 (16369/2/2006 - c6-0100/2007 - 2005/0042 ((cod)) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
i referred specifically to cardiovascular diseases because that was in a question tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but through research and other programmes we support many initiatives regarding cancer.
i should like to conclude by thanking you all, in particular the environment committee, as well as mr trakatellis for being patient and persistent.
the vote will take place on thursday 12 july 2007.
the next item is the report by alejo vidal-quadras, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the prospects for the internal market in gas and electricity (2007/2089 (ini)) (a6-0249/2007).
there is one serious problem with the principle of reciprocity that governs our energy policy towards russia.
recently, for example, russia has expelled more european energy companies from its territory.
gazprom, meanwhile, is benefiting from the opening of the european energy market with growing investments in as many as 16 of the 27 eu member states.
in germany, france and italy, gazprom even has access to individual consumers, and we know that these countries represent the lion's share of the energy market.
the conclusion is that the energy market liberalization, which is beneficial from the consumer's point of view, should be carried out in such a way that it does not bring europe to an even greater dependence on the russian economic and political complex.
i congratulate commissioner piebalgs on another good proposal, this time in favour of a european energy community, a common market.
secondly, european integration should not only concern energy and co2 emission rights, but also the green, red and white certificates market.
this may prove too costly for europe's energy-intensive industries and for small and medium-sized enterprises.
the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the restriction of the placing on the market of certain measuring devices containing mercury is an important document limiting the amount of mercury released into the environment.
its form, methyl sulphate, in the aquatic environment, goes through the food chain: fish, fruits, vegetables, and it deposits in our bodies, poisoning us.
mercury compounds have long been known to be toxic to humans and the environment.
mercury damages the body, particularly the nervous system, impairs coordination, vision, and has negative effects on health and the environment.
the harmonisation and standardisation of rules governing the handling of situations such as road accidents, unfair competition, damage to the environment, the treatment of foreign law or the infringement of personal rights occurring in crossborder areas will make it possible to build on a single legal basis common to all member states.
the reality of the situation and the points in the report show that the union today needs a common policy to combat unemployment, along the lines of the common energy policy.
the development and efficient operation of rail transport can lead to a greater share of freight and passenger transport being taken over, thus relieving road transport, thereby reducing carbon emissions.
it also requires good organization and logistics, a lot of infrastructure, but most of all, transportation requires energy.
energy consumption in transport means emissions of harmful substances.
we need to reduce these emissions for environmental reasons by using the right technologies.
so new emission-reducing and energy-saving technologies are costly, and we need to refine them to make them cheaper.
in this context, it seems appropriate to support changes towards greater openness and pluralism in china, as well as cooperation on energy and climate change.
because we know that china is one of the world's largest producers of greenhouse gases.
i believe that this is the common energy security policy, which will be a testimony to the fact that the unification of europe after the historic year of 1989 is profound and irreversible.
there are many issues to be resolved: the unfinished dispute over polish food exports to russia, and the need to pursue a policy of energy solidarity to prevent moscow from dictating to individual eu countries.
the european union fully supports all steps towards sustainable democracy in pakistan and the strengthening of democratic institutions and good governance in the country.
pakistan’s political environment is currently characterised by uncertainty.
the first is to reaffirm what i said in my first speech: that the mere maintenance of the status quo in kosovo is not sustainable.
its purpose must be clear: to supervise the implementation of a status settlement that ensures the rights of all communities and the sustainable development of kosovo.
greater attention to environmental protection and further economic and administrative reforms are needed.
mr president, i would like to say that security of supply is one of the three objectives of the community's energy policy and it can be said that the aim of this policy is the highest degree of energy security.
but, like other community policies, this policy must also take into account other factors such as costs, internal market rules and, above all, the european union's major objectives on climate change.
energy security is not an objective and quantifiable goal for which a numerical value can be set.
it must be seen as a process in a dynamic perspective which depends on the interaction of the european union with third countries as well as on the preferences of the citizens of the european union in the field of energy saving and technological development.
in answer to the first question, therefore, the council has not set an energy security target, as the honourable member refers to, nor is the council aware that the commission is preparing any legislative proposal of this nature.
the presidency of the council would also like to stress that one of the main objectives of the development and implementation of the community's internal and external energy policy is to ensure and increase the security of supply of the european union over the coming decades.
the main elements of the community's energy policy which contribute directly or indirectly to increased security of supply and which will continue to be the main drivers of increased energy security in the european union over the next 20 years, as the honourable member points out, are firstly the diversification of both energy sources and suppliers, secondly an increased use of renewable energy, thirdly greater energy efficiency and fourthly the strengthening of the community's energy networks.
in addition to these major policy objectives and guidelines, the european council's action plan, adopted in march, lists a number of other measures, such as the study of gas storage facilities, the development of effective crisis response mechanisms and the creation of an energy observatory, which will lead to increased security of supply for the european union as a whole and for each of the member states.
first of all, thank you for your very comprehensive answer, but i would like to ask if there is an investment programme, because investments in energy are long-term and very expensive.
lastly let me say that there is a great package on the questions of climate and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions that has been put on the table of all the member states by the commission and was adopted by the member states in the european council in the spring.
statistics are a key element for policy-making and, as such, the new programme has indeed focused on the current priorities of the union, from growth and competitiveness to sustainable development and security.
ukraine needs to be given priority consideration, not least because of the key role it plays in ensuring the stability and energy security of the european union.
for example, for energy reasons, ukraine should already be part of the european energy security system today and actions such as the odessa-brody pipeline, the involvement of ukraine in the nabokov pipeline or the encouragement of guam are all very appropriate.
the poorest regions lack, in particular, the basic infrastructure necessary for sustainable and sustainable development and further investment, and adequate human resources.
the implementation of cohesion policy should take into account the diverse needs of regions, including in particular urban, rural, hard-to-reach regions, islands, outermost regions, by adapting assistance to their conditions and specific characteristics, while exploiting their potential for sustainable and resilient development.
the commission and the member states should effectively support projects that increase the capacity of regions to generate and absorb new technologies, with particular attention to environmental protection.
it is of the utmost importance to support the integration of the energy sector of ukraine into the energy market of the european union.
the climate has also improved for political dissidents in the past two years.
first, the authors of the report support a better lawmaking process aimed at making union law more effective, efficient, coherent and transparent, which, in my view, should be carried out under the following conditions:- the council, the commission and the european parliament must act together on this matter;- a broad and open consultation of all interested parties, including - i would like to stress this in particular - businesses, local governments and non-governmental organisations, should be carried out on this matter;- the responsibility of the community institutions for the lawmaking process should be increased and the overall transparency of the process improved;- any change in the law that aims to simplify it must, however, take into account equally the social, environmental and economic considerations as well as the health and safety of the legal process concerned;- it should not lead to a lowering of the standards of law in the union.
simplifying the regulatory environment and ensuring the clarity and effectiveness of legislation are essential to achieving the objective of better law-making, which has a significant impact on the level of economic growth and employment, thus making a valuable contribution to the implementation of the lisbon strategy.
when it comes to preserving our environment, fighting climate change, reducing our dependence on fossil fuels or the health of our citizens, it's not a matter of cost.
the commission feels, however, that it is its duty to give parliament full information on the social, environmental and economic consequences of any new proposal.
it will happen eventually, but it's a waste of time.
gdansk shipyard deserves a viable future by developing a new and sustainable position in the competitive shipbuilding industry of the eu.
looking at the european union shipbuilding industry in a global competitive environment and then considering all the conditions for the activities of shipyards within the european union, including gdańsk shipyard or szczecin shipyard.
the single market must, however, take account of social cohesion, employment, environmental and consumer protection.
we must guarantee the free movement of dangerous goods and intermodality in national and international services, while ensuring safety to protect our environment, citizens and workers in the sector.
this has resulted in reduced safety, delays for about 20% of aircraft, increased fuel consumption, and negative environmental impacts.
because of the relatively low pollution, the milk produced there is of good quality.
it is therefore essential to improve this cooperation, especially operational cooperation and the exchange of information between member states, to strengthen the capacities of europol and eurojust, and to strengthen the protection of critical infrastructure, especially transport and energy, as we continue to call for.
i vote in favour of the report by mrs inés ayala sender on freight transport logistics in europe key to sustainable mobility.
in addition, the enormous impact of appropriate logistics solutions on reducing environmental pollution and also contributing to reducing energy consumption should not be forgotten.
the european union expressed to the bosnian authorities its concern that the deteriorating political climate in the country, the return of nationalist rhetoric and the lack of political will to reach a compromise were jeopardising the reform process.
we recommend that the criteria established cover not only civil and political rights but also economic, social, environmental and cultural rights.
however, having said that, from the debate it is clear that we share a common view that fisheries have to be brought to sustainable levels as soon as possible.
rather we are setting ourselves an objective to arrive at maximum sustainable yield (msy) in a gradual and flexible manner.
this approach should be adaptive so that as we learn more – or, as environmental and ecosystem conditions change – new knowledge can be applied to the approach.
the purpose of this proposal is not to penalise fishermen, who, admittedly, have to make a number of adjustments, but rather it seeks to reach an objective and embark on a direction where the sector operates in a more stable and in a more profitable environment.
the simplification and improvement of the regulatory environment for both consumers and businesses is of particular interest, especially as 90% of them are small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the driving force behind many emerging economies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on renewable energy in europe, i would like to thank mrs thomsen for producing a comprehensive report on this subject.
first, the author rightly points out that the most important issue - also for the future of renewable energy in europe - is the development of a common european energy policy.
poland, which is experiencing firsthand the effects of divergent interests in energy policy between individual member states, for example through the implementation of the german-russian baltic gas pipeline investment, presented the main principles of such a common energy policy at the european union council almost two years ago.
i would like to express the hope that the european commission will take the preparation of such a common energy policy seriously this time.
second, in order to improve access to the transmission networks in individual countries for producers of different types of renewable energy, it is necessary to separate the transmission system operators from the energy production.
without this solution, producers of energy from traditional sources, who also own or manage transmission networks, will not be interested in making them available to producers of energy from renewable sources.
the european commission's latest proposals in this area have been met with fierce opposition from the powerful energy companies, mainly from france and germany.
third, the strategic renewable energy target of producing 20% of energy from renewable sources and achieving 20% energy efficiency by 2020 deserves attention and support.
i would like to draw particular attention to the production of biofuels, which not only increase the use of renewable energy, but also cause agricultural raw materials to be used for other purposes than food production, thus reducing overproduction.
the roadmap for renewable energy is an important document that could help generate renewable energy.
therefore, the assumed 20% renewable energy rate seems unsatisfactory.
the european union should have a diversified energy policy, taking into account the different possibilities for renewable energy in different countries and regions, and develop local and regional action programmes on renewable energy production and savings, supported by local authorities, governments and the european union.
priority should be given to energy-related research programmes.
provision should also be made for the development of nuclear energy, which reduces co2 emissions, where necessary.
mr president, i would like to start my closing words of this debate with what mr vidal-quadras said: there should not be a feeling of winners or losers in this policy area because renewable policy is definitely one that we need, for three basic reasons.
first of all, climate change: without renewable energy sources it is rather naive to expect that we could master the climate change challenge.
second, competition for energy resources: the world is growing, people are living better and energy resources are even scarcer and the run for energy resources could also be geopolitically dangerous.
if we stayed at the same exchange rate, we would have energy resources today 50% higher, and then a lot of parliaments would be discussing emergency aid.
and it is not subsidies which we are calling for, it is investment aid, because 20% of final energy consumption is not 100%, it is not 50%: it is just one fifth, and we need this technology to be applicable.
the richer countries could invest in the countries where there is more potential, because, as a result, we will all benefit by having new technology which powers us from clean energy sources.
i quoted that, even the uk, where today there is not so much penetration of renewable energy, there are calls for this policy – meaning this attitude – and that we need binding targets because, to achieve a long-lasting policy goal, only binding targets matter.
now, on the challenge a lot of you put forward about food energy sustainability.
well, i would like to dispute that at this stage renewable energy has any considerable impact on food prices.
it will stay reasonably high and, for this reason, this challenge does not come from renewable energy sources.
at the same time, i am from the part that believes that we need defined sustainability criteria and we will do this in this directive, because the counter-argument could be that there already is water legislation, waste legislation and soil legislation.
and certification, if even sometimes cumbersome, is needed to really provide an answer that none of the energy resources will be provided in an unsustainable way.
the compromise also postponed the application of certain chapters of the regulation for a transitional period of five years, renewable twice.
at this price we will be able to transfer part of the freight to rail, the benefits of which are now being fully appreciated, particularly in view of our priority in the fight against global warming.
rail transport, which has a history of two centuries, is gaining new importance in the modern world due to environmental protection and congestion of road networks.
the draft resolution unnecessarily mentions the issue of the european day against the punishment of waste.
it is, in fact, that elected officials can, by relying on each other, through good practices, through the best experiences, really, in a way, convince their compatriots to commit themselves to these bolder, more environmental urban policies.
the polish research and academic environment is of a high european level and in many cases is among the best in the world.
it is worth noting that, in parallel to the work of the committee on industry, research and energy, important findings were made in our committee on budgets in the context of the european institute of innovation and technology.
over the last decade, wroclaw has become a modern financial services city, a place that attracts capital from all over the world, a symbol of european creative energy and development, and a positive symbol of globalisation.
our report advocates a common eu foreign policy on energy in order to face challenges of energy security.
it would bring necessary and substantial added value to efforts made at national level, according to the subsidiarity principle, and would allow better protection of europe’s energy interests.
we need to develop a proactive broad energy diplomacy aimed at strengthening our cooperation with all major producer, transit and consumer countries, and to create an energy market based on the principle of reciprocity.
the report welcomes the proposals of the third energy package, as adopted last week by the commission, which addresses these concerns and is in line with the report.
the geopolitical dimension of energy security has been so far neglected and it is high time to fill the gap.
hopefully the new treaty will equip the eu with a legal basis for energy solidarity, thus allowing for the eu’s institutional competence to negotiate an energy security framework with third countries.
the report recommends including in our agreements with producer and transit countries a so-called energy security clause which lays down a code of conduct and explicitly outlines measures to be taken in the event of disruption of supply.
we should replace the current eu member states’ preference for energy unilateralism with a new common policy of energy solidarity based on a multilateralist approach.
the new common foreign policy on energy must be consistent with all eu policies having an external aspect, e.g.
internal market, competition, transport, trade, environment, consumer protection, budget and others.
we suggest the creation of a new post of high official for foreign energy policy after the new treaty enters – hopefully – into force.
this office would allow for the coordination of all the above-mentioned sectoral policies of the union and especially those aspects related to the external side of energy security, working under the authority of the high representative for the common foreign and security policy, who would, in future, also be vice-president of the european commission.
the citizens’ interest is in secure and affordable energy.
common threats to secure energy for europe should therefore produce a common response.
today’s european union started a long time ago with energy.
we need energy for europe, indeed, both in literal and in metaphorical terms.
we have a great opportunity for a common energy policy.
firstly, we have a proper presentation of energy trade issues in the context of foreign policy.
it was only russia's hostile energy policy that made us realize that energy trade had become a purely political instrument.
the report includes energy security among the union's security priorities.
we have legitimate doubts about the northern gas pipeline, the need for russia to respect the principles of the energy charter, to be involved in the wto and to extend our energy policy beyond the context of the member states of the european union.
i would like to point out that from the point of view of individual countries and societies, the three most important security considerations are energy security, food security and personal security.
i would therefore like to thank the author of the report on european external energy policy, mr saryusz-wolski, for his comprehensive reflections on the energy security of the european union.
i hope that the common energy policy will be enshrined in the treaty reforming the european union.
the polish people, whom i represent, are experiencing firsthand the effects of divergent interests in energy policy between the member states.
two years ago, at the council of the european union, poland put forward a proposal for a common energy policy, which can be summed up as 'one for all, all for one'.
there is no doubt that without unity in defending the european union's energy interests, without respect for the principle of solidarity in crisis situations, the european union will not be seen as a single organism.
this excellent report by jacques saryusz-wolski shows that security of supply is the most important aspect of the union's energy policy today.
solidarity between the member states must also be reflected in the common external energy policy, and it is good that the commission is assuring us of its willingness to develop such a policy, as we heard from commissioner piebalgs.
it is important that this policy be based on the principle of diversification of both sources and suppliers, and finally of energy supply routes and methods.
finally, the european union's energy clauses should become a permanent element of the european union's relations with its neighbours, especially its immediate neighbours, within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, along the lines of the anti-terrorism clauses which we are proposing here in the european parliament for agreements with third countries.
let us use the enthusiasm and energy of the people who come to us legally, let us involve them in the construction of new states and our common europe!
today, in a rapidly changing global environment, it is more about a network of knowledge and innovation centres, kics, coordinated by the central government.
the european union is a major energy consumer, dependent on external power sources, which are characterised by uncertainty and the possibility of destabilisation.
in the specific case of russia and the resource-rich cis countries, an additional, practically confirmed, uncertainty factor is the propensity to use energy weapons for political purposes.
but it is happening too slowly, because of the different interests of countries that are not as vulnerable to energy blackmail as the post-communist countries.
it is a call for eu-russia relations to be based on mutual trust and respect for the principles of the energy charter.
the parallel efforts of the european commission to liberalise the eu energy market, with gazprom in the background, provide an important context for the current debate.
the reluctance to liberalize is seen in the same countries that are willing to rely on bilateral energy contracts with russia and capital cooperation with russian state-owned companies.
it is no coincidence that these are the remnants of the public energy monopolies of continental europe.
this is delaying the desirable freedom of choice of energy suppliers and the development of a community policy of solidarity in this strategic area.
i am voting in favour of the report by mr saryusz-wolski on the common european foreign policy in the field of energy.
in line with the energy policy action plan adopted by the council in march 2007, we must make every effort to develop a common external energy policy for the european union, equipped with the right instruments to ensure its smooth functioning.
i would like to stress the need for solidarity and cooperation between member states, for diversification of energy sources and for continuing to develop and improve cooperation in this field.
the proposal to appoint a high-level foreign policy officer for energy responsible for coordinating all policies covering the external aspects of energy security is timely and deserves further consideration.
mr president, mr president-in-office, let there be no doubt that climate change is a global challenge that requires global solutions.
for their part, european leaders decided to send a strong signal to the international community of their determination to fight climate change by making the following commitments with a view to launching negotiations on a comprehensive agreement after 2012: until an agreement is reached, the european union makes an independent and firm commitment to achieve by 2020 a reduction of at least 20% of greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels.
continuing a more permanent dialogue with the united states will be essential for the preparation of the post-2012 negotiations, which are due to start at the climate conference in bali later this year, and to which i have already had the opportunity to refer in my answer to an earlier question.
the first will be the high-level meeting of the united nations general assembly on climate change, which took place in new york on 24 september, and the second, the meeting of the major economies on 27 and 28 september in washington, from which the european union expects an important contribution to advancing the international process within the united nations.
in addition, the european union and the united states agreed at the vienna summit in june 2006 to establish a high level dialogue on climate change, clean energy and sustainable development to build on existing bilateral and multilateral initiatives and to pursue the implementation of the vienna summit declaration and the glenn eagles action plan on climate change, clean energy and sustainable development adopted at the g8.
no one doubts this, but it is clear that through persistent, concerted action we can, i hope, succeed and, in any case, i believe that through a permanent dialogue that has been established in particular with our cousins on the other side of the atlantic, despite everything, some differences, some different perspectives on this climate issue have been overcome.
i think that in this respect the conclusions on climate change recorded at the g8 meeting in germany and the possibility that there was, or the agreement that there was on the fundamental role of the united nations on the issue of climate change, was a positive indication of the possibility of further progress and new agreements on this issue of climate change.
it is important, as i have said, that the european union maintains its leading role, as an actor opening the way for other actors in the defence of the environment and our planet.
increasing cross-border exchanges of services in a competitive environment requires an increase in mutual trust, which should be supported by pro-consumer policies.
but it's the fate of children who are separated from their environment that's not really clear why that's the most important thing here.
the disorder should be given a separate status as a disease or disability and the difficulties should be explained first to the child and then to the child's environment, parents, peers and schoolmates.
vocational education and training policy has a significant positive impact on economic and social performance, sustainable development and social cohesion.
we cannot ignore the immediate eastern dimension in economic, political and energy terms.
we are facing the challenges of globalisation and we want to become, and i quote, 'the most competitive and knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable development, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion'.
so a social europe that increases employment and also fights climate change, which was not the case seven years ago, must be a europe of the fully free market.
i ask you hypocrites, how is it that poor poland has only one third of agricultural subsidies, that the richest germans, against the common energy policy, want to make deals with russia over the heads of other countries and run a pipeline across the sea, threatening the protection of the environment?
the best we can do is, beyond appeasing the urges to destroy each other, beyond trying to mediate, we can afford humanitarian aid for people to live in as decent a sanitary environment as possible, to have food and a place to learn.
however, the issue must be considered in its entirety, including the local and regional airport environment.
this applies in particular to the natural environment, including noise, pollution emissions, heavy traffic near the port, proximity to fuel tanks, and weather conditions.
the rapporteur notes that the choice of site for the airport is a difficult decision due to the size of the site and the fulfilment of a number of technical, organisational and social conditions, such as the consent of the community and local authorities, as well as safety and environmental conditions.
it is important that the environmental issue is addressed the aviation sector has a number of negative environmental impacts, in particular through noise emissions and climate change.
i therefore agree with the clause that both the european union and the united states should take effective measures to reduce the negative environmental impact of aviation.
the european union is working to minimise the negative effects of pesticides on the environment and to prevent their accumulation in soil, water and plants.
but let's remember that in previous years, pesticides were of much lower quality, used in much higher doses, many times higher, and therefore the pollution of our environment is a result of the past years.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
producers, forced to produce food that looks perfect, are putting pesticides on the market that are harmful not only to the environment and the economy, but especially to human health.
i hope that the documents discussed will improve the quality of the food we eat and lead to a change in production methods to more ecological ones, with more use of natural fertilizers for soil fertilization.
in addition to general guidelines, strategies for the sustainable use of pesticides should be addressed at national level, where appropriate actions can be considered.
today's debate is of crucial importance for european agriculture and environmental protection.
in the context of the sustainable use of pesticides, i also believe that the following steps should be taken: first, the commission and the member states should provide periodic training, advisory and educational programmes, at least partly financed by the pesticide companies.
the monitoring and collection of data on the adverse effects of pesticides on human health and the environment, including long-term research programmes, and the imposition of sanctions on polluters should be coordinated.
the key to the sustainable use of plant protection products is the rational reduction of risks.
we should achieve this by implementing the principles of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides.
it is our duty to the environment to protect forests, and it is the task of parliament to set the rules for the safe use of environmental protection measures.
the directive says a lot about the most important factor in implementing the sustainable use of pesticides, which is the farmer's knowledge.
when discussing the whole issue of a community strategy to reduce co2 emissions, it should be borne in mind that the automotive industry alone employs 2 million people in europe, to which must be added 10 million workers associated with the sector.
the community strategy for reducing co2 emissions will only succeed if it is balanced and takes into account the timeframe needed for manufacturers to prepare the appropriate technological solutions.
therefore, relying solely on engine technology to reduce co2 emissions is the most expensive solution.
we have analysed the various options of a level to reduce co2 emissions from cars, taking into account measurability, monitorability and accountability.
as underlined in your report, finding ways to encourage consumer demand for fuel-efficient cars will enable us significantly to reduce their environmental impact, along with the fuel bill of drivers in the european union.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr herbert reul on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on 'conventional energy sources and energy technologies' (a6-0348/2007).
author of the draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
it is not new to the energy science community that natural resources are steadily declining.
the conclusions of these reports clearly indicate that continuing to rely solely on conventional energy sources in the future could lead to an energy crisis in the world economy.
one of the main challenges facing the european union is therefore to diversify the use of energy sources and to work on the development of new energy technologies.
positive policy in this area will not only benefit society and the economy, but also the environment.
this is due to historical circumstances which have resulted in the energy industry being lagging behind the old union countries for a number of years.
so from the perspective of a citizen of such a country, i would like to point out that as i said, countries like poland and others in this geographical area will have to go a longer way than western european countries in modernizing their energy industry.
in view of climate change, and in particular the interests of countries with a large coal-based energy economy, the union's commitment to clean coal as an environmentally sound technology should be increased.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: energy is crucial for market competitiveness and the quality of life of the citizens of the union.
therefore, the main policy and economic objectives are the efficiency of sustainable energy production, the final efficiency through the reduction of energy consumption, and the reliability and security of energy supply.
we must not forget that every unit of energy is paid for directly or indirectly by our citizens.
however, this will only happen if the commission ensures that the emissions trading scheme does not hinder the replacement of existing power plants, e.g.
coal-fired power plants, by more modern ones with lower co2 emissions.
poland has already reduced its emissions by 32% since 1988, while the countries of the old union have reduced much less in the same period.
the current per capita emissions in poland are 7 tonnes per year, while in the old eu countries they are several times higher.
my country cannot be a victim of political climate hysteria.
we know that the climate has changed, it's changing, and it's going to change, and we know that we have to deal with the effects of that change, which is drought, flooding, lack of fresh water.
however, justice requires that co2 emissions reductions are linked to the per capita emissions of the union countries.
the point is that the cost of emissions is not arbitrarily shaped by constraints and unclear rules.
competitiveness cannot be a function of false market incentives and the price of energy must reflect its real costs.
it seems that all possible but proven methods of carbon dioxide absorption, including biological methods as well as methane capture, should be used.
however, the current priority should be to improve the efficiency of primary energy conversion to other forms of energy by means of pilot plants for gasification, hydrogen production and coal liquefaction.
in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr reul, for his fruitful cooperation in the preparation of this report, which is characterised by a comprehensive and balanced and forward-looking approach to both fossil fuels and nuclear energy.
speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on conventional energy sources and energy technologies, i would like to thank mr herbert reul for his comprehensive report on this subject.
firstly, the author of the report rightly points out that the most important issue for the future of energy from conventional fuels is the joint action of the european union countries in this field.
secondly, given that the european union's dependence on fossil fuel imports will increase to around 70% by 2030 and, in the case of oil imports, to 94%, it is necessary to maximise the use of the energy resources of the mines in the european union's member states.
third, such an energy resource is coal, whose reserves in germany account for as much as 7% of the world's reserves, and in poland for 2% of those reserves.
it is important that the extraction of this fuel and the generation of energy from it is not questioned, because electricity produced from fossil fuels is still half as cheap as that produced from renewable sources.
fourthly, the environmental risks of coal-fired electricity generation require joint european investment in research into new coal-fired technologies, financed from the european union budget.
finally, fifth, support is needed for eu countries investing in nuclear energy.
of the energy sources listed in the report, only one is available in larger quantities in the european union - coal, both hard and brown.
we have to import most of the rest of our energy.
energy demand will increase as we develop.
we don't know how far we'll go in renewable energy or hydrogen batteries, but they need energy supply.
so despite our best efforts, we should not give up coal as an available energy source too quickly.
we need to preserve our energy security, and one of the elements of that security is coal, which is available in almost all the countries of the union.
i can also promise that we will follow the vote on the reul report very carefully, because the outcome of that report will influence the approach to ccs – first of all the legal proposal and also the report – and also our strategic energy technology plan and our future policy, as far as the euratom treaty gives us a mandate for nuclear energy.
it was mentioned that we need to modernise the energy sector.
definitely, security of supply and climate change are closely related, with perhaps just one major difference at this stage, which is the cost for carbon sequestration, but i believe oil price developments will help.
without massive investment in research and development in the energy sector, we will not succeed.
how can one claim, for example, that some member states are dependent on third countries when the structural funds are not being used for energy at all, or practically not at all!
there was also mention of one particular issue: that we need sufficient energy resources.
sufficient resources need energy demand management.
here again, parliament has moved and the commission has moved, and at the same time i needed to start 12 infringement cases for not communicating energy efficiency action plans, the basis for action on energy demand.
the last part of my intervention will be on nuclear energy.
it is very clear that, under the reform treaty, the energy mix comes under national decision-making.
that means that the decision on nuclear energy is to be made by each and every member state.
so in all the areas we were discussing - and i listened to that in the previous energy item - energy statistics are extremely important, such as statistics on immigration or on issues related to the so-called third pillar.
at the same time, the tax system is overburdened with an excessive number of economic, fiscal, social and environmental functions and tasks.
my satisfaction is more due to the fact that we have been devoting too much time and political energy to institutions lately.
it is very important that the european parliament is more strict on this issue, more pro-environmental than the european commission.
the key to the sustainable use of plant protection products is to reduce risks in a rational manner.
we should achieve this by implementing the principles of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides.
it is our duty to the environment to protect forests, and it is the task of parliament to set the rules for the safe use of environmental protection measures.
the directive says a lot about the most important way to implement sustainable use of pesticides, which is to educate farmers.
it is therefore good that we have found a financial instrument in the form of pilot projects and preparatory actions to increase funding for regional development, maritime safety, border facilitation and, above all, environmental protection.
the commission is currently reflecting on the best way to address this situation without any compromise on our high level of risk assessment, with regard to both the environment and human health.
the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2007.
the next item is the report by mr karel-heinz florenza, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the green paper: towards a europe free of tobacco smoke: alternative policy options at eu level [2007/2105 (ini) ] (a6-0336/2007).
we need to create conditions for people to thrive in their environment, in their place of residence.
i vote in favour of the report by mr herbert reul on conventional energy sources and energy technologies.
the report deals with a very important and topical issue which we must bring to the european union for a general debate - we need a unified strategy and a common energy policy.
the commission's proposal to present a 'strategic energy technology plan' at the spring european council is welcomed as a priority issue in ensuring europe's energy security.
the european union, as a world leader, must also set the right direction for the development of modern energy technologies, while respecting all economic and environmental standards.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and as a non-smoker who sees in his immediate surroundings the many negative effects of smoking, i welcome the report by karl-heinz florenz 'towards a europe free of tobacco smoke'.
they are generally well known, but also that the right of non-smokers to live in a smoke-free environment cannot be dependent on, let alone limited by, smokers who would like to exercise their 'right to smoke' at the expense of non-smokers.
tobacco smoke particles settle permanently in the air and cause air pollution that cannot be eliminated even by the best ventilation systems.
every citizen of the european union should be able to live and work in an environment that is smoke-free, and we must pay particular attention to this in relation to public premises and institutions.
we must remember that 70% of the eu population are non-smokers, and we must ensure that they can live in a clean and safe environment.
several reasons justify this new approach of recognising the importance of relations between the european union and africa: the widespread perception that the set of global challenges, such as peace and security or international trade, require concerted action by the international community and thus justify the emergence of new forms of cooperation; the search for answers to problems affecting both europe and africa, in particular the effects of climate change; the management of energy resources or migratory flows; africa's willingness to tackle common problems collectively and the need to adapt to changing geopolitical circumstances in the international context.
i also think, of course, of the global challenges that africa faces, like all other global actors, climate change, energy, reform of multilateral institutions, risks related to pandemics, migration, and it is obvious that africa must make its voice heard, must weigh in with its influence and above all must assert its rights.
it will be difficult to make progress in relations between the two countries without increasing the coherence of the various eu policies - trade, development, environment, agriculture and migration.
we need to take the african side into account and focus in particular on development issues and the achievement of the millennium development goals, such as sustainable growth and development, the fight against poverty, and assistance in ensuring access to education and health care.
the energy consumption of street lighting is also not changed, because it is automatically regulated according to the intensity of the light.
we care about the sustainability of our economy, and we often neglect the need for the sustainability of our children's development, not just their intellectual development, but their physical development as well.
i will start with those aspects of the thematic strategy which appear in the report of the committee on the environment and which are not covered in the directive.
i welcome the support given in the report to tackling soil protection at a european level and the crucial links between soil protection and any strategy to combat climate change, biodiversity loss and desertification.
i also agree on the fact of reviewing existing environmental legislation to fully exploit and further strengthen the potential synergies with soil protection.
many of the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment provide useful clarifications to the proposal.
i am referring in particular to a better clarification of the objective of the legislation and the role played by soil functions in ensuring sustainable use of soil in article 1, pursuant to amendment 36. in addition, elements such as the introduction of voluntary codes of good practice or of a non-binding annex on possible measures to combat soil degradation can be supported in articles 4 and 8, pursuant in part to amendments 58 and 65.the addition of acidification to the list of soil degradation processes that need to be tackled in order to consider the different soil conditions that apply in some new member states.
it is time to stop the process of abandoning agriculture and return to a rational and sustainable model of agriculture that protects the soil!
on the one hand, there are the environmental aspects of our atmosphere, and on the other hand, there is the development of air transport, which is an important economic activity, which includes transport, tourism, which is carried out in a highly competitive market.
the european aviation industry can be seriously harmed without reducing harmful gas emissions.
the inclusion of carbon dioxide emissions from civil aviation in the union scheme should therefore be considered appropriate.
i consider that the most important measures are those which will effectively reduce harmful gas emissions, inter alia, through the use of innovative solutions in the field of aircraft engines, the design of aircraft with better aerodynamic parameters, and radical improvements in air traffic management, which will reduce unnecessary time in the air.
i'm considering emissions trading as a substitute right now.
we are discussing today a proposal to integrate european civil aviation into the eu's emissions trading system.
in my view, this very important project was prepared in haste, without proper consultation of the aviation industry, especially from the new member states, and without analysing the economic and social consequences of its implementation, as well as the environmental consequences for civil aviation and the risks to europe's economic development, for example in the area of tourism, which is the main source of income for many regions.
only this solution guarantees the desired environmental impact and does not expose european carriers to a drastic reduction in their competitiveness.
i believe that the total number of allowances allocated to the aviation sector should be determined at community level by reference to the average aviation emissions from at least 2005 to 2007, and that the emission limit should be set at 100%.
given the divergent views that have been presented during our discussion and the fact that this project affects both the environment and the economy of all the eu countries and our citizens, we should make decisions that are balanced and good.
protecting the environment and countering negative climate change has become a challenge for all of humanity.
as a citizen of the union, i value the european union's commitment to environmental protection.
we are faced with this problem today when we are discussing the directive on co2 emissions from aviation.
i would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the opinion of the scientific community, there are no immediate plans to develop new technologies that can effectively reduce co2 emissions from aviation.
it is therefore of the utmost importance to seek to reduce emissions wherever possible.
in conclusion, i would like to stress that when we are conducting environmental policy we should bear in mind the impact of this policy on each of the member states.
to give you a recent example: in march the european council adopted, as you know, some very important ideas for energy and the environment, namely protection against climate change.
it is, in fact, resistance to an important european movement that is in favour of creating a real internal market for energy and of having a very strong policy against climate change.
the imperatives of climate change, the realities of migration, and the risk of worldwide poverty: all these are clear challenges.
i am very pleased with the progress made in the commission's energy policy.
however, i would like to stress the need for a balance between environmental and strategic objectives.
it's very easy to impose new environmental taxes, it's easy to require better environmental standards from the building and industry, but it doesn't solve our energy security problem.
political action is needed to move towards energy solidarity in the face of the crisis.
it is urgent to apply common market rules to energy owners who also control distribution, especially if they come from third countries such as russia, which does not apply the principle of reciprocity for foreign investment.
countries that are vulnerable to energy blackmail will be more willing to bear the costs of green programmes if they are accompanied by strategic decisions.
they are crucial for europe's energy security.
europe is a world leader in social and environmental protection.
as the current digital environment has transformed business services, networks and systems to offer consumers a wide range of choices, interoperability is now a fundamental concept for telecommunications and information technology networks.
the comprehensive protection of soil is one of the major environmental challenges not only at international level, but also has a huge impact on the economies of the member states.
as the current community legislation does not seem to prevent soil degradation and soil protection is closely linked to the major international environmental challenges, i believe that there is an undeniable need to develop community legislation aimed at protecting soil as such.
i would like to point out that polish aviation is very well prepared to reduce co2 emissions as part of fulfilling the kyoto protocol commitments (36% of 6% of commitments) and co2 emissions are not a problem of these countries, but of the old fifteen, which to date has fulfilled only 1.5% of its 8% commitments.
however, union action cannot be in the economic interests of nation states, as in the case of unjustified limitations on carbon dioxide emissions, which would seriously damage the economies of countries such as poland.
secondly, the business environment, which means a fully open, free internal market without monopolies, with full competition, with less regulation, with less bureaucracy, which is what vice-president verheugen is fighting so hard for.
fourthly, energy and climate change, and therefore a common energy policy, which i think we have all reached, and emission reductions.
but reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union alone will not save the world's climate in any way.
so we need a politically strong union, because only a strong union can influence the united states, china, india to also respect the rules of climate protection.
so reducing emissions in the union - yes, but also a politically strong union, and that means full ratification of the european treaty as soon as possible.
i am convinced that the regulations we have adopted are very necessary and will contribute to improving the environment and human health.
it deserves special protection because of its social, economic, environmental and cultural functions.
the introduction of appropriate regulations to limit soil degradation, ensure its sustainable use and at the same time allow the reuse of degraded land is a clear step forward in the protection of environmental resources.
the proposed framework directive consolidates the legal solutions for soil protection policy that are fragmented in other legal acts on waste management, pesticide use and environmental protection.
the document proposes not only measures to protect and sustainably use soil to prevent its degradation due to climate change, but also measures to restore already degraded soils.
the eu-russia summit in mafra is a testament to a different climate of relations than that of the 1990s, when the partnership and cooperation agreement was born and expired in 2007. three main factors have undoubtedly influenced the evolution of these relations.
thirdly, the situation on energy markets, which favours the use of gazprom for political purposes, on the other hand, makes european countries vulnerable in terms of energy security.
in this context, the resolution proposed by the epp-ed group balances criticism of russia and hopes for global warming with principles reflecting our value system.
the granting of preferential status to ukraine is of great importance, also because this country plays a key role in ensuring stability and energy security for the whole of the european union.
we expect them to pursue the path of reform and democracy, to reform and decentralize the judiciary, to effectively fight corruption and create a climate for economic growth.
in recent years, the community has particularly stressed the need for greater focus on the effective implementation of cites controls in order to reduce illegal slaughter and trade and to ensure sustainable trade in species.
we also stress the need for international cooperation and in particular capacity building to facilitate the implementation of policies for the conservation and sustainable use of wild fauna and flora in the states of the species' range.
so, industry, agriculture, energy, finance, border security, transportation infrastructure, non-corruption patterns, intellectual property, the environment, scientific cooperation, relations with neighbours, and so on, and so on, and so on.
it is our policy to favour the opening-up of energy markets to competition as a means of ensuring access to secure and affordable energy.
first, energy cooperation is very important for both sides.
we need to be committed to investing in pipelines that are often in poor condition, or in new pipelines, like odessa-brody-gdańsk, in investing in the electricity grid, in supporting energy efficiency.
we can offer our own technologies, we can create a common capital to improve energy efficiency in ukraine, it will also help our energy security.
by establishing a free trade area between the union and ukraine, by integrating ukraine into the community's energy networks or by co-financing the transport system.
donors, partner countries and civil society have long recognised the need to be more effective in particularly unfavourable situations in order to achieve sustainable development goals.
the main focus will remain on capacity development and human security, with a view to sustainable development and poverty reduction.
the european commission presented a communication proposing a pragmatic approach to the european union's engagement in challenging environments for sustainable development, stability and peace.
it will invite the commission to develop a concrete work plan for the implementation of the recommendations and priority actions set out in the communication, which aim to address fragility more effectively by supporting the efforts of partner countries to create or restore the conditions necessary for their sustainable development.
the european parliament's contribution to this exercise is of great interest to the commission, which invites it to be actively involved in this debate, which should make it possible to support a comprehensive strategy to respond to situations of fragility and thus contribute to the creation of the right conditions for sustainable development, stability, peace and democratic governance.
the budgetary effort, based on the new enpi instrument (replacing tacis and meda programmes), to support the desired processes in our environment is also justified.
the commissioner rightly pointed out that the renewed lisbon strategy focuses not only on economic performance and competitiveness, but also on the pursuit of greater social cohesion and the social dimension of sustainable development.
the constant attempt to redefine the obvious distorts the proportions and the ability to respond to the real problems of the old continent, such as the alarming ageing of the peoples of europe, migration, aggressive competition from asian countries, terrorism, epidemics and new diseases, and energy security.
we're dealing with a new religion, and that religion is the greenhouse effect.
of course, the greenhouse effect is understood in this way to limit emissions as much as possible and to make the nations of europe compete with those who do not care about reducing emissions.
but all the serious scientists today say that the greenhouse effect is a natural phenomenon that occurs cyclically in nature, and that all human activity can have an impact of a few percent at most.
instead of being utopian, you guys need to get serious about energy policy, because oil is almost $100 today, and some say it's going to cost more.
the climate change.
i will not insist any more, but i do not want to look back at any government, because there have been governments in my country of all colors... there is no doubt that spain has experienced great economic growth; all i know is that the government i preside over is the only one that has stopped the growth of greenhouse gas emissions: it has done so since 2006; and the one that has started the reduction, with an economic growth of 4%, and that 2006 was the first year in which the primary consumption of electricity in spain has been reduced; and that we have a will as determined as we have had in other fields of political action, where we have not wavered in making advanced laws or rights to take strong decisions on foreign policy when we have been firmly against certain actions, and that in the field of international order we will not lack the perseverance and determination to face what i have described as a great challenge and as a great opportunity: that spain is not in the places of the tail, and will not be here in the coming years, and we can make a great effort to ensure that the national policy of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, by means of alternative energy, has a great effect, and we will do a great deal to ensure that renewable energy is used in a sustainable manner.
we were faced with the fact that technology and criminal energy in europe had led to a problem that had never been seen before: i mean the conversion of weapons that are not dangerous in themselves into sharp weapons.
speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on the impact of global trade on climate change, i would like to draw attention to the following points.
first, the european union, as the world leader in the fight against climate change, wants global greenhouse gas emissions to be cut by 25-40% by 2020. however, it should be borne in mind that if this emission reduction is to be achieved mainly by the european union's actions with little involvement from other countries in the world, it could pose serious risks to the economic development of the european union itself.
second, operators in europe who are subject to various restrictions in order to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions are no longer competitive with operators in countries where such restrictions are not applied.
thirdly, with the introduction of restrictions in europe on excessive greenhouse gas emissions, there are processes of relocation of production outside europe where such restrictions do not exist.
fourthly, if global agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is not reached and the european union wants to make progress on its own, it is necessary to introduce border countervailing taxes, especially in sectors where competition is already seriously distorted by not including environmental taxes in the cost of production.
it is also necessary that the so-called climate dimension of trade be included, wherever possible, in bilateral economic cooperation agreements concluded between the european union and third countries.
the misuse of pesticides and inadequate waste management have contributed to the degradation of soils and have created a threat to our citizens.
however, chemical pollution and its remediation are not the end of the story.
so, as we fight chemical pollution, we must also fight biological pollution.
we can be proud that the european union is a force for change, that human rights, freedom, democracy, tolerance, free markets, improved living standards and care for the environment are the values we all hold dearest.
we are continuing our work on a directive which is of great importance for the whole ecosystem, including for the improvement of the health of europeans and the wider world.
i am referring to the concentrations of pm2.5 and pm10, gases: carbon dioxide and oxide, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ozone, benzene, volatile organic compounds, and lead.
the directive sets emission limits for these pollutants and emphasises the principle of reducing emissions at source.
the directive rightly emphasises the need to monitor pollutant emissions, which is of great importance in reducing pollution, including transboundary pollution.
member states should be encouraged to apply long-term air pollution control policies on a voluntary basis.
i also support the amendment to include environmental policies alongside regional policies.
for example, they often do not pay environmental, labor, or product safety costs.
the overarching objective of the reform should be to achieve sustainability and improve the competitiveness of the wine sector in the union.
the subsidies linked to the fulfilment of a number of environmental conditions serve not only farmers but the whole of society.
all agricultural activities and production should comply with environmental protection, safety and quality requirements and animal welfare requirements.
i think the first thing to do is to take care of what's going on in the immediate environment.
that is why i very much welcome mr heaton harris' report on the introduction of an electronic environment for customs and trade.
not to mention the environmental issues and the amount of trees we have to sacrifice every year to produce the tons of paper needed for this job.
i think this is a very good step in the direction of environmental protection in my country and in the region of silesia.
but hopefully next year we'll have more reason to be glad that we didn't waste time and opportunity to make the world a better place.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this year's theme was 'international air transport as a driving force for sustainable economic, social and cultural development'.
on this, we within the european union have completely clear stands, because we have high-quality products, with regard to the environment, with regard to animal welfare and with regard to the high level of veterinary standards.
moreover, the new legal basis for instruments or policies related to the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) are also established, for instance the sanctions against non-state entities, space policy and energy security, combating climate change, prevention of international terrorism and protection of personal data.
i agree with the formula that information campaigns should serve to inform consumers well about sustainable production methods in the cap, high quality agricultural products in the eu, organic farming and health aspects.
the priorities adopted by the european commission for the coming year are mainly to promote growth and jobs, sustainable development in europe and the management of migration flows.
they cover climate change, energy, future eu enlargements and international action.
it is good that the priorities for the next summit (2009) include not only peace, security, human rights, energy, climate change and migration, but also the fight against poverty, for example through employment, investment in health and education.
much remains to be done, particularly in the areas of social and employment policy, energy, environmental protection, as well as security and civil liberties.
mr vernola and many other members also highlighted the importance of ecology and the environment.
the commission is assisting this ancient kingdom to become the ecological republic in the garden of nations, as mr paleckis said, by strengthening the administrative capacity of montenegro, which in turn makes the country better able to approximate its laws to ours, for instance in the field of waste management and water treatment.
mr president, first of all i would like to say that my colleague mr dimas regrets not being able to be here today for this debate but, as you know, he is at the global warming conference and he has to represent the community there.
we know that heavy storms in the black sea region in november caused a tragic loss of life and property and of course damage to the environment, with an estimated leakage of 1 300 tons of fuel oil and the sinking of ships carrying sulphur.
under a bilateral agreement, the commission sent a team of five eu experts, who were joined by representatives of the commission and the un environment programme.
during that meeting discussions will also focus on further strengthening cooperation with regard to improvements in the monitoring of the environmental quality of the black sea.
according to international oil spill statistics, the current oil spill can be considered of medium size and is not expected to be a major environmental disaster.
of course, that does not mean that we are not just as concerned, in particular because there is always the possibility of secondary pollution.
the density of the environmental pressures, the presence of sensitive species in the strait, the political sensitivity of the area and the risk of further, similar accidents in the future all underline the need to assess the situation in a more comprehensive manner.
the awareness that areas that have been little or not recognised, such as the black sea, are an integral part of our continent, not just in a geographical sense, but also in a natural, ecological, economic and cultural sense, that we are all parts of a common whole, and that these parts influence each other.
however, the fundamental rights agency, along with other agencies that are being created at an impressive rate, is not only a waste of money, but also another dubious, even harmful project of brussels.
it is therefore necessary that, in addition to this agreement, korea concludes an agreement with the union in which it commits itself to respecting european social standards, in particular the basic elements of decent work, as well as environmental and consumer protection standards.
only in this case will korean companies include in their cost of production the total labour, environmental and consumer protection costs and thus their product prices will reflect the full cost of production.
the korea-eu free trade agreement can provide a basis for promoting high social and environmental standards and serve as a model for other agreements currently under negotiation.