human rights, sustainable development and lasting peace and security should inspire the external action of the european union and its member states.
koffi annan said in nairobi that climate change is not science fiction.
for example, avoiding the car and walking more is good for your health and protects the environment.
the fight against climate change is a priority of the german and portuguese presidencies and i hope that together they can give a considerable boost to this fight and that the next un conference, to be held in bali during the portuguese presidency, will be an opportunity that the european union will use to lead the negotiations leading to a new climate regime.
as you know, the european commission has recently proposed a package of energy measures and some greenhouse gas emission and renewable energy targets, stating that its purpose is to combat climate change and to boost the energy security and competitiveness of the european union.
now they have come here to reaffirm these objectives and the targets they have set, highlighting the insistence on an international agreement on the framework after 2012, arguing that a 30% reduction in emissions from developed countries should be achieved, which already implies that the european union should commit itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by this percentage, with concrete measures, in particular through measures in the field of energy.
however, it is clear that the possibility of trading emissions remains, which particularly affects the countries with the weakest economies, which do not have the money to buy these emission allowances.
while there are positive proposals in the field of emission reductions and renewable energy, there is another set of proposals which will be difficult to implement, because of the demands placed on the different countries, given the opposition, particularly from the usa.
but above all, we must not allow this to be used to further liberalize and concentrate energy and dominate the most powerful countries.
although it silences the causes of the deep and growing social inequalities and developmental asymmetries, the unbridled exploitation of natural resources and the immense destruction of the environment in the world - by avoiding the one responsible for it: capitalism - the report includes a diverse set of proposals and considerations which we consider positive, such as the call for the 0.7% gnp target to be met for effective and solidarity-based development cooperation.
49% of eu municipal waste is landfilled.
the european environment agency forecasts that paper, glass and plastic waste will increase by around 40% by 2020. in this context, the revision of the waste framework directive should contribute to the reduction of the environmental and socio-economic impacts resulting from waste management by taking into account the whole life cycle of products and materials and giving priority to the protection of human health.
the reduction, prevention, reuse and recycling of waste should be given priority.
the european commission should take the lead in drawing up a waste prevention action plan which can serve as a source of information for the prevention programmes to be drawn up by the member states.
they should take measures to stabilise their waste production by 2012. to this end, it is essential to strengthen the responsibility of producers and importers for waste generated following the placing of their product on the market, in accordance with the polluter-pays principle.
i have therefore tabled two amendments seeking to clarify the definitions of recovery and disposal of waste, which i hope will be adopted by the european parliament.
the european parliament recently adopted reach, which provides for the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that the collection, production, transport, storage and treatment of hazardous waste are carried out in the best possible conditions for safety and protection of the environment and human health.
in other words, better regulation is about benefiting businesses and not about protecting the labour, social and environmental rights of consumers.
priorities are set for waste management, with emphasis on prevention, reuse, recycling and other recovery operations, and for waste disposal.
the question of waste treatment is of the utmost importance and must be debated with the notion that an ecological excess will result in legislative unrealism and actual impracticability, while a legislative insufficiency will result in environmental neglect and an avoidable legacy for future generations.
on the other hand, it is worth being aware that, however good our intentions may be in reducing pollution, the truth is that the increase in living standards - still ongoing in the european union (not to mention the rest of the planet) - will always lead to increased consumption and, inevitably, to increased waste.
we must be realistic and above all seek, as suggested here, to obtain a positive return from waste treatment, particularly in terms of energy.
we know that one of the problems of modern societies is the production of waste.
we therefore stress the adoption of this document which highlights the primary objective of waste management, namely the protection of the environment and human health.
we also stress the adoption of the so-called 'waste hierarchy', i.e.
the establishment of the following priorities for action, with emphasis on prevention first, followed by reuse, recycling, other recovery operations, including, for example, energy recovery, and finally disposal.
the increased importance of prevention is intended to reduce the amount of waste generated as much as possible.
but we must not forget that, given the enormous quantity of waste produced today, the measures for reuse, recycling or disposal that can be applied are still insufficient and unable to meet the needs.
the reduction of waste is therefore an essential issue.
the commission has therefore clarified how to bear the costs of waste management, ensuring that these do not fall exclusively or predominantly on the 'weakest link' - consumers.
the implementation of the lisbon agenda has been limited to deepening liberalization and privatisation in a wide variety of sectors, from transport, energy, post and telecommunications to services, putting essential public services at risk, now joined by labour flexibility and the so-called flexicurity, to make it even easier to lay off workers.
in the alternative resolution which our group is tabled for this debate, we therefore consider that priority should be given to a genuine pact for economic progress and social development and to a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development based on more solidarity on the part of the more developed countries, with a better and wider distribution of community funds, aimed at economic and social cohesion, the improvement of the living conditions of all people, including immigrants, the dignity of workers and the realisation of human rights, particularly in the fields of education, health, housing and social security, without forgetting research and development.
question no 42 by mr zbigniew krzysztof kuzmiuk (h-0006/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: problems with the supply of energy raw materials imported from russia in late 2006 and early 2007, eu member states - including poland - were threatened with a breakdown in natural gas supplies as a result of the russia-belarus dispute, and on 8 january 2007 russia even suspended oil supplies to poland, germany, the czech republic and slovakia, also as a result of the dispute with belarus.
unfortunately, this is the latest example of russia using the supply of raw materials for energy as a means of exerting political pressure on member states and third countries and proving that russia is not reliable in energy matters.
how does the commission intend to tackle these problems in the european energy strategy currently being drawn up?
the economic importance (irrigation of the negev desert, feeding hydroelectric power plants and desalination facilities with an annual production of 1,000 million cubic meters of drinking water), the diplomatic importance (dialogue and cooperation between israel, palestine and jordan) and the environmental importance (dealing with the risk of the dead sea completely drying up by 2050) of this project is enormous.
however, the production of coal in the united states is subject to environmental rules, and the overall issue of rights in this instance falls within the competence of the us government.
this means that the less developed regions will be particularly affected, particularly family farms and low-income farmers, which will have disastrous social and environmental effects and will increase the desertification of inland areas leading to abandonment.
we consider it to be a positive step overall to adopt this document, another on the subject of climate change.
it is a document that affirms or reaffirms commitments made in terms of reducing emissions and promoting alternative energy sources.
however, it does not develop other equally important aspects such as the promotion of energy efficiency and the use of quality public transport, with only small and diluted references to these alternatives.
while there are positive proposals in the field of emission reduction and renewable energy, there is another set of proposals which will be difficult to implement because of the demands made on the different countries, and their opposition is known.
in any case, we shall give our full attention to the implementation of some of the ideas contained here, fighting to prevent them from being exploited for new concentrations in the energy sector and for the domination of the richer countries, or to make consumers pay for the pollution caused by polluting industries.
the situation here is one of the european union seeking its own energy and the russian federation stubbornly refusing to sign essential declarations on human rights.
another key ingredient for job creation is confidence, because without confidence it is very difficult to grow investment, and factors which can help to create a climate of confidence include the balance of public accounts, the development of the internal market, a good coordination of member states' economic policies and economic and monetary policy.
the creation of jobs is the only way to ensure that young europeans do not waste their opportunities and talents.
but in the case of europe, job creation is still necessary for other reasons, the most important of which has to do with the financial sustainability of social protection systems.
in this context, it is very important that the bank's financial activity continue to be directed towards supporting projects aimed at promoting energy efficiency and the development of renewable energies, reaching even higher levels of commitment.
we have recently heard the president of the commission say in parliament that europe cannot have the audacity to speak with one voice to the world on energy policy when it is absolutely incapable of speaking with 27 voices at home.
this is certainly not the best time to make a demanding analysis of the nature, causes and consequences of the various energy shocks.
it is undeniable that the turbulence on energy markets and the volatility of prices have resulted in a slower rate of economic growth and a higher rate of price increases, and it is unthinkable that these disadvantages have not been enhanced by strong speculative movements in the price of raw materials in the energy sector.
the commission has warned us of a reality that will inevitably arise if immediate action is not taken: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the energy question is therefore a nuclear question for the future of europe and is above all a political question which requires answers and commitments at this level and with this dimension.
it is therefore suggested that the union, through its institutions, engage in a comprehensive and mobilizing debate with economic operators, representative organisations in the sector and citizens on this matter and then proceed to assess the real impact of the use of the different energy sources and their possible combinations on economic growth, environmental protection and the reduction of the negative impacts on climate change.
a genuine common european energy policy is needed, as suggested by the commission, but this depends only on the explicit will of the european council.
the european union is, as we know, dangerously dependent on the energy it imports, but moreover, it does not even have the security of the energy it needs to pursue its objectives of growth and the well-being of its citizens.
much can be done within the european area by saving, by improving efficiency and diversifying sources or by protecting the environment.
but the essential can only be achieved through dialogue with all the other regions of the world, whether they are predominantly energy producers or those which are progressively continuing to consume the same energy.
the diplomacy of this new century, as far as the european union is concerned, must give priority to the energy dimension and, to be successful, must be based on three essential elements: solidarity with the european union and its structural principles and values, solidarity with developing countries and solidarity with the environmental dimension of the world in which we live and without which we cannot survive.
madam president, commissioner almunia, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in energy prices is a reality that has come to stay, in a context in which it is estimated that the increase in europe's energy dependence will increase from the present 50% to 71% by 2030. i welcome this own-initiative report and the good work of the rapporteur, both of which highlight the urgent need for europe to take decisive and consistent action.
the deepening of the internal energy market has not eliminated existing distortions, as evidenced in particular by the commission's sector inquiry.
these are some of the conditions for increasing efficiency in the energy market.
the adoption of the energy efficiency plan recently presented by the commission addresses all these issues and is crucial.
in the amendments i have tabled to the report, i would like to emphasize those relating to energy efficiency, which should be integrated into the criteria for awarding public contracts and should also be included in the selection procedures for support managed by the structural funds and in the framework programme for competitiveness and innovation.
improved energy efficiency is the best answer to the problem of climate change, while controlling atmospheric emissions and improving europe's energy independence.
they threaten the potential of european (quality) wine, they jeopardise the sustainability of the community wine sector and they compromise the stability of wine growers.
we will continue to support the proposals put forward and to oppose the commission's proposal for liberalization, advocating another reform of the wine cmo which gives priority to sustainable wine-growing, its traditional characteristics, small and mediumsized farming and family farming, its social and cultural role and its important contribution to regional and national development.
and between the lines, it presents its nature, with the aim of creating a more conducive environment for business activity.
measures are needed to reverse the current trend of increasing import dependence of europe's energy supply, including through incentives for investment in renewable energy, which would allow the objectives of the kyoto protocol to be achieved.
it is urgent to define a global strategy to reduce energy consumption, especially in the transport sector, which accounts for 56% of oil consumption in europe.
whether technological solutions can contribute to increasing energy efficiency, to the emergence of new types of fuel and new forms of energy, the central question is the change in the capitalist mode of production which causes waste and inefficiency.
the answer must be to reduce the energy intensity of gdp, to promote quality public rail transport and to promote production for local markets.
the rapporteur has certainly made some positive proposals, but we cannot agree to the creation of an internal energy market and its liberalisation.
i had the opportunity to use this report in a paper on geopolitics and energy which i presented in ankara to the european union/turkey parliamentary committee.
the debate on energy issues must continue and deepen.
the impact on gdp growth, employment and investment, as well as the different levels of energy dependence between the member states of the union, make our efforts more difficult.
the importance of completing the internal energy market and increasing competition and investment in alternative energy sources is therefore clear.
only a comprehensive eu strategy of gradually reducing dependence on oil, developing and producing alternative fuels, including the study of the nuclear option, and innovative solutions for the management of transport systems in general, can help to effectively combat the crisis of european energy supply.
if so, there is a serious risk that its role will be reduced to that of a public relations tool designed to obfuscate or obstruct the responsibility of companies for social and environmental problems.
in a perfect market, both the economic performance and the social or environmental impact of a company would be taken into account in determining its value and public image.
the idea that there is always an opposition between profit, or simple economic viability, and the environment, employment, social responsibility, does not convince me.
the european position must be based on two fundamental ideas: strengthening the international atomic energy agency and pressing for compliance with article 6 of the npt, and in this respect i agree that the modernisation of trident is incompatible with article 6 of the npt and, by affecting the united kingdom, affects the european union.
madam president, i would also like to begin by congratulating our colleague mr leichtfried on his report and his excellent work and to say that the matter we are discussing here today is of the utmost importance for the future of european civil aviation, especially in view of the prospect of a continuing increase in air traffic in the coming years and in view of the recent commitments made by the european union with regard to co2 emissions, which will certainly also involve civil aviation.
the advantages of multilateral agreements are obvious, since they help to improve the conditions under which services are provided, particularly for passengers, the routes available and the prices charged, to simplify procedures and to minimise environmental impacts, and to safeguard and promote the rights of workers in this sector and to ensure respect for the internal order and sovereignty of each country.
what is needed is a guideline that always takes account of one fundamental principle: how the european union will participate actively, seriously and intelligently in the process of regulating international trade, seeking to project to the international level, within the framework of the wto itself, some basic values that identify it, a competitive economy and at the same time a more solidary and more cohesive society and very attentive to the preservation of some fundamental environmental values.
despite the recognition of the structural disadvantages of the islands, the strategy followed has not been consistent, and we therefore regard as positive aspects highlighted in this report, such as the increase in the rate of community co-financing on the basis of the existing eligibility criteria or the flexibility in authorizing the granting of state aid to these regions in order to reduce the costs of fuel, transport and energy, as a positive differentiating factor for these regions.
i would like to highlight in particular the proposal for a european coastguard, which is a fundamental proposal for the protection of the marine environment, the control of fisheries, support for navigation and, in particular, the control of international standards in the field of safety and labour, and also, of course, the problem of immigration.
only then will the very particular reality of island regions be properly taken into account in the context of policies such as transport, energy, the environment, tourism, taxation, state aid, etc.
it is therefore necessary to promote the adequacy of union policies, in particular in the fields of transport, energy, public service contracts and state aid, in order to ensure full employment, economic growth, integration into the internal market, the european model, the objectives of the renewed lisbon strategy.
among other examples, the report advocates: the 'opening of agricultural markets', although regulated, referring in particular to the wine and fruit and vegetable sectors; the liberalisation of services, although excluding (only...) the public services which it considers to be basic (health, education, drinking water, culture and audiovisual services); the liberalisation of energy, through the creation of a euro-mediterranean market; and the liberalisation of the industrial sector, in particular the 'consolidation of a euro-mediterranean production area' for textiles and clothing, basically encouraging the relocation of a large part of production.
i voted in favour of the willy meyer pleite report (a6-0026/2007) on the negotiation of an eu-central america association agreement because i believe that the european union must continue to play a key role in defending the environment and human rights at global level.
the higher transport and energy costs, the scarcity of natural resources, depopulation, the lack of infrastructure and illegal immigration make it necessary to adopt specific community measures to respond effectively to the problems characteristic of these regions.
or else develop an integrated development policy which can also ensure the sustainability of island economic activities such as tourism.
the question, as our colleague has already very well put it, is not just a question of sustainability, it is fundamentally a question of ethics, whether it makes any sense, simply to satisfy some fashion questions, to kill in an absolutely barbaric way - as was witnessed by a delegation from the intergroup for animal welfare and conservation, made up of our colleague carl schlyter last year, and as we have witnessed in a variety of ways.
globalisation, climate change, energy problems, population ageing, migration and terrorism are challenges that require new responses.
i consider it essential because it establishes a minimum of rules common to all member states on the civil liability and financial security of shipowners (extended to all other persons liable) and others, with a view to preventing accidents and ratifying certain international conventions, in particular the convention on the limitation of liability for maritime accidents, the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea and the international convention on civil liability for damage caused by pollution from oil-based fuels.
this report forms part of the 'third maritime safety package', a package of legislative measures aimed at strengthening the prevention of accidents and pollution and the management of the consequences of accidents.
consumers choose organic products because they are produced in a more sustainable way, without the use of pesticides, and because they are completely free of genetically modified organisms.
the introduction of these substances, even in small quantities, is a way of manipulating consumers with serious consequences for the environment and for health in general.
contrary to the path that this report opens, there is a need for more sustainable forms of agricultural production, based on the productive diversity of each country and each region, on the value of small and mediumsized farmers and family farming, rejecting the "productivist" model that is being sought.
i also voted in favour of the amendment which introduces products such as salt, wool, preserved fish, cosmetics, food supplements and essential oils under the regulation in question, since these products are linked, at least during one of the production stages, to the natural environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the report by mr miroslav mikolášik, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on advanced therapy medicinal products and amending directive 2001/83/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 (com (2005) 0567 - c6-0401/2005 - 2005/0227 (cod)) (a6-0031/2007) is attached.
we reject such proposals and insist on the need for policies that promote sustainable economic development and employment, combat unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and income inequalities, and reduce regional disparities and promote real convergence.
i believe that any victims should have access to prompt and fair compensation, and i have therefore tabled proposals to that effect and intend to vote against the amendments which seek to remove from the scope of this proposal any rights applicable to inland waterways, because tragedies also occur in these areas and they are a mode of transport to be encouraged for environmental and economic reasons.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the maritime safety issue is not only controversial and demanding, it is also crucial to elevating ships, freighters and tankers to the status of safe and reliable means of transport in the face of accidents and environmental tragedies.
finally, we can thus, by strengthening legislation and better coordinating it with the conventions agreed within the imo, contribute to greater safety and better maritime transport without the backlash of the sea, to the benefit of the environment, the people and the goods being transported.
ensure the protection of human health, the environment, cultural heritage and economic activities, taking into account the impact of climate change on floods.
the current proposal also seeks to ensure greater environmental protection by advocating the inclusion in risk maps of information on potential sources of environmental pollution resulting from floods.
i also welcome the fact that member states are taking responsibility for promoting sustainable land use, i.e.
it is true that for the europe of economic liberalism, politics is business, even if the depreciation of the dollar, the environmental dumping of those who do not ratify kyoto or the disparity between social rights show how dangerous the adventure of blindly removing barriers to the movement of capital in a world of walls is.
the transatlantic relationship has been important in the past and will continue to be important in the future, especially in the light of the challenges we have identified together in the european union - the question of energy and climate change, but also, for example, the fight against international terrorism.
another example is climate change, which can only be tackled effectively at the multilateral level.
our common objectives for the development and use of clean energy in the medium term include, but are not limited to, the following areas: promotion of largely emission-free coal use; development and use of renewable energy sources, in particular biofuels; promotion of energy efficiency.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the objective of this directive is to establish a legislative framework for the assessment and management of flood risks, with a view to ensuring the protection of human health, the environment, cultural heritage and economic activities.
community action on climate change issues is of the greatest importance for the future.
i cannot therefore fail to call for joint action on climate change.
the european commission has put forward a proposal for a directive based on a judgment of the court of justice on the environment, which is also the subject of some questions, which provides for criminal measures to be taken by the member states in cases of infringement of intellectual property rights.
we therefore consider it important that your report was adopted in support of sustainable economic development, combined with a fair and equitable sharing of the benefits of natural resources, access to resources and markets, in order to alleviate poverty and enhance people's well-being, even though we regret that not all the proposals you made, which we supported, were included in the final resolution.
the ep majority sets out the agenda and priorities, highlighting:- the welcome for an improved climate of eu-us relations on an equal footing and the expressed desire for a shared responsibility in global governance;- the strengthening of the transatlantic market, pointing to the liberalisation of financial services as a key issue and calling for regulatory convergence and a level playing field, recalling the multilateral investment agreement; - the affirmation of the broad prospects for close cooperation with the western balkans, the south caucasus region, central asia, the middle east, afghanistan, the mediterranean, latin america and africa; - the strengthening of cooperation in the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction as the greatest security challenge for both partners, nato being a transatlantic forum for political debate in a true partnership between equals.
but think also of illicit trafficking or, in another context, but for which this reasoning is equally valid, environmental threats.
the aim of the amendment is to allow some fleet adaptations to improve safety, working and hygiene conditions, the quality of products on board vessels and energy efficiency.
the amendments will give member states the possibility to increase the tonnage of their vessels to a limited extent, thus improving safety, working conditions and hygiene, the quality of products on board the vessel and energy efficiency.
the current proposal, dated june 2006, after the eff, aims to allow, on a limited basis, aid for the modernisation of the fleet for the purpose of safety and improvement of working conditions and hygiene, as well as energy efficiency, by allowing the reuse of 4% of the withdrawn tonnage, at public expense, for this purpose, while determining that the power reduction related to the replacement of engines cannot be restored with public aid.
that said, we believe that the structural funds can play a significant role in supporting integrated projects to promote social, public or cooperative housing, whether for purchase or for lease at controlled costs, with controlled social facilities for urban renewal, social cohesion and the promotion of sustainable urban development, and therefore, once again, the question of increasing the funds in the community budget for cohesion policy is reaffirmed as necessary, in addition to the mobilisation of other financial instruments such as the european investment bank.
this vision has evolved and we now believe that the european financial instruments available to member states should allow for public-private partnerships and structured investment in smart homes, where energy efficiency and environmentally friendly construction are key criteria.
thus, for regional development policy to have a significant impact on innovation, it must above all contribute to the creation in the regions of an environment and culture favourable to innovation, which favours initiative, entrepreneurship, healthy competition and a taste for risk.
on the other hand, the international community needs to support the region to make it more able to adapt to the severe impacts of climate change, because although africa is the continent that contributes least to greenhouse gas emissions, it is the continent that will suffer the most from global warming due to its underdevelopment and poverty.
nuclear energy has been referred to as one of the lowest carbon forms of energy, with nuclear fission being placed as one of the preferred forms of intervention in the framework of 'climate change', and the importance of savings and efficiency being secondary.
however, we believe that energy saving and efficiency, as well as renewable energy, should be at the centre of any energy policy.
it is in this field that more public research and investigation should be promoted and developed in order to achieve a genuine energy alternative that meets the needs of the population and the requirements of sustainable development in our society.
the increasing liberalization of the energy sector, promoted in the eu in the interests of large multinationals, is putting at risk the right of people to secure energy at affordable prices.
we are also concerned about the assumptions in this report that nuclear energy should be promoted, given the dangers - to the environment and to the population, such as the safety of the plant itself and the reactors and the treatment and transport of radioactive waste - associated with the production of this type of energy.
in particular, it recalls that 'nuclear energy currently provides the european union with 32% of its electricity and is considered by the commission (...) as one of the main co2-free energy sources in europe and the third least expensive energy source', drawing the conclusion that the eu 'must defend, in compliance with the euratom treaty, its industrial and technological leadership in the face of actors who are vigorously relaunching their nuclear activities (russia, usa) and the emergence of new global nuclear players (china and india), future competitors of the european union in the medium term'.
i understand and acknowledge that this is an open-ended difficulty and one which provokes negative reactions among the populations, but i believe that nuclear energy should not be excluded from our considerations of the future of energy supply.
whether it's because of the costs involved, whether it's because of the environmental impact, whether it's because the technological solutions today are less risky.
i believe that diversity and technological innovation are the answer to today's energy challenges and the issues associated with them.
social housing is a way of combating property speculation, ensuring the construction of social facilities and promoting sustainable urban planning and planning.
we all stand to gain, especially the european environment.
these measures are in fact in line with our concerns expressed in the own-initiative report of the committee on the environment on natural disasters, for which i was rapporteur.
another very important aspect is to ensure that at least 50% of the budgetary resources of life+ are used to support projects for the conservation of nature and biodiversity, since in its common position the council had proposed to allocate only 40%, an amount clearly insufficient in view of the requirements of financing the natura 2000 network and the implementation of the habitats directive.
this strategy is clearly a second option and will only be acceptable if the agreements are compatible with the success of the doha negotiations and include minimum environmental and social conditions that are in line with internationally recognised standards such as decent work.
in addition, part of the life+ budget is devoted to projects on 'nature and biodiversity'.
the ep has ensured that at least 50% of life+ budgetary resources will be used to fund projects supporting nature and biodiversity conservation.
i voted in favour of the report by anne laperrouze (a6-0125/2007) on the proposal for a directive on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy and amending directive 2000/60/ec because i believe that the european union must continue to play a key role in protecting the environment and also because this proposal aims to protect and promote the quality of the environment in accordance with the principle of sustainable development.
measures are needed, following on from the proposed water framework directive, to stop chemical pollution of water, which affects aquatic ecosystems, causes biodiversity loss and leaves humans increasingly exposed.
this new proposal for a directive on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy follows on from the water framework directive, adopted in 2000, which sets environmental quality objectives for surface water to be achieved by 2015, but without a formal assessment of the various existing legislation in this area or even an integrated approach to water policy.
it is therefore a set of measures which are worthwhile, with some positive aspects and correct references to the need to take account of the scientific and technical data available, the environmental conditions of the different regions and balanced economic and social development, but in a framework of reaffirmation of neo-liberalism, making the proposed measures subject to the 'maintaining of fair conditions of competition in the internal market' and the polluter-pays principle.
consumers choose organic products because they are produced in a more sustainable way, without the use of pesticides, and because they are completely free of genetically modified organisms.
the introduction of these substances, even in small quantities, is a way of manipulating consumers with serious consequences for the environment and for health in general.
the main objective of the new agreement is to maintain and strengthen fisheries relations between the community and the local government of greenland by establishing a framework for partnership and dialogue aimed at improving the sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fishery resources in greenland's fishing areas, in the interests of both parties.
in principle, halting biodiversity loss by 2010 is something that needs to be supported and therefore appropriate measures are required.
thus, ecosystem maintenance should become an objective of all eu sectoral and horizontal policies, taking into account the vital importance of healthy ecosystems for prosperity and well-being in the european union and worldwide.
so urban and rural development cannot continue to ignore nature to prevent our landscape from being dominated by cement and pollution.
biodiversity is a foundation of sustainable development and therefore it is necessary to mainstream biodiversity concerns into all areas of policy-making.
while there are contradictions in community policies, member states should take advantage of all the opportunities available under the cap, the cfp, the cohesion and structural funds, life+ and the seventh framework programme to support biodiversity objectives.
in addition, it is imperative to give greater attention to financial needs in the 2008-2009 community budget review, during which an assessment of the (insufficiency) and availability of community funding for biodiversity, especially for the natura 2000 network, should be made.
i am voting in favour of the adamou report because i consider the loss of biodiversity to be a problem of vital importance for the future of the eu and the action plan under discussion will be a key tool in putting into practice the measures needed to halt this phenomenon by 2010, although i believe that the deadline will certainly be very difficult to meet.
i agree that the consequences of climate change.
ecosystem services and the specific roles of the cap and the cfp should be taken into account given their importance for meeting the targets and ensuring the long-term maintenance of biodiversity.
i voted in favour of the caspary report because, although it could be improved, i believe that most of the socialist objectives have been achieved: in particular, preference for multilateralism and the conclusion of doha, special treatment for countries with development problems, mutual recognition of standards, respect for social and environmental minimum standards by combating current dumping, protection of intellectual property, the adoption of codes of conduct and good practice by european companies and the increased involvement of the european parliament.
i voted in favour of the caspary report because, although it could be improved, i believe that most of the socialist objectives have been achieved: in particular, preference for multilateralism and the conclusion of doha, special treatment for countries with development problems, mutual recognition of standards, respect for social and environmental minimum standards by combating current dumping, protection of intellectual property, the adoption of codes of conduct and good practice by european companies and the increased involvement of the european parliament.
what the report does not mention are the disastrous consequences of capitalist liberalization - with its 'structural reforms', the end of customs duties or the imposition of so-called 'intellectual property rights' - such as the glaring increase in inequalities worldwide, the growing unemployment, precariousness of work and poverty, as well as the harmful consequences for the environment and biodiversity.
we cannot accept that our competitors resort to state export aid policies, to artificial devaluations of the currency and to violations of basic environmental rules.
on the other hand, the inclusion of minimum social and environmental standards in our trade agreements must be safeguarded.
it must be borne in mind that the european project is based on solidarity, respect for human rights and sustainable development.
in part as a response to the eu's growing demand for biofuels, both indonesia and malaysia are cutting down large areas of forest - in many cases tropical forests with high environmental value - to plant palm trees for palm oil production.
according to a dutch lobby group, about 50 percent of the land for new plantings is obtained by drying and burning peat-rich land, which releases huge amounts of carbon dioxide.
how can the commission reconcile the eu's target of reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020 with the possible increase in emissions in indonesia and malaysia (according to the same lobby group, indonesia is the third largest co2 producer in the world)?
what are the commission's intentions with regard to the introduction of an eco-label for 'sustainable' palm oils?
question no 31 by danute budreikaite (h-0303/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: agreement between the eu member states and russia on energy the publication by the commission of the 'energy package' in january 2007 gave new impetus to the efforts of some member states to secure supplies of energy resources from russia by concluding bilateral or trilateral agreements with that country.
what is the commission's position on such a diversification of energy supplies, since the supplier is the same 'gazprom'?
what is the impact of such agreements on the implementation of the eu's common energy policy?
the quality of work must be seen as a much broader area, first of all because a high quality working environment is one of the most important factors in increasing productivity and thus enhancing competitiveness.
the proposal for a regulation on the granting of community financial support for the trans-european energy and transport networks, while increasing the level of community co-financing currently in force, falls short of what was originally envisaged for both the transport and energy networks, as a result of the poor agreement on the financial perspective for the period 2007-13. but there is still a question of substance.
mainly public funding, with the aim of laying the foundations for the internal market, as stated in the first point of the council's common position: 'strong and integrated energy and transport networks are the cornerstone of the european internal market and that better use of existing networks and completion of missing links will make it possible to increase efficiency and competition'.
cohesion is not uniformity; cohesion is above all investing in exploiting specificities and ensuring the sustainability and durability of this investment to ensure harmonious development.
as the report says, 'trade liberalisation is one of the most effective drivers of economic growth, which is indispensable to reduce poverty and promote economic growth and employment for the poor, as well as an important catalyst for sustainable development worldwide'.
or if you 'believe' that 'investment, competition and public procurement agreements ... could contribute to common objectives of good governance and transparency by creating an enabling environment for greater public/private partnerships'.
what is needed is to promote public investment in research, education and innovation, based on sustainable development strategies in each country, contributing to improving the quality of life, creating jobs (with rights) and wealth (justly redistributed).
the eu must be equipped to respond to the concerns of its citizens in the face of the challenges of globalisation and climate change, thus contributing to strengthening democratic control of its decision-making processes.
on the other hand, economic relations between russia and many eu states are becoming increasingly important in the field of energy, where stable agreements and well-negotiated supplies are needed, while clear solutions for russian investment in the european union are being negotiated and companies from the member states are vigorously penetrating russia's energy sources.
at the same time, it is necessary to foster a favourable investment climate in russia and to encourage the russian federation to ensure decent working conditions and respect for workers' trade union rights.
in the fundamental field of energy, we support the commission's action to separate ownership of production and distribution ('ownership unbundling').
cooperation between the european institutions and strong involvement of the parliament are becoming more important today, at a time when european competition policy focuses on strategic sectors such as energy and services of general economic interest, covers new areas such as the environment, and much of competition has acquired a global dimension.
the amendment to the directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical agents, which was adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, was adopted unanimously.
and, perhaps too much to expose the real purposes of such considerations, the consideration has been withdrawn 'that such an approach will not improve the investment climate and raises fundamental questions as to the role of the state in a market economy and competition in key sectors of the economy; the committee of the regions believes that in russia, as in other countries, the market is the best determinant of the system of company ownership.'
the eu's relevance to russia is due to a combination of factors ranging from geography and size, strategic location, importance in energy supply - notably as an alternative to energy sources located in the middle east - to the memory which is particularly sensitive in most of the member states that have been part of the eu since the last two enlargements, to trade and, of course, to the role played by russia in international relations.
it is currently doing so in the light of the concern to ensure full liberalisation of the energy sector by 1 july 2007, tax harmonisation in relation to corporate taxation (with a common consolidated corporate tax base) and the reduction and control of state aid, which is a sui generis feature of eu competition policy.
without justice and the rule of law, there will be no good governance and much less sustainable development.
will other member states also have the right to use similar procedures, for example to ensure their energy security?
question no 42 by sarah ludford (h-0365/07) subject: the use of the euro in the european union subject: draft of a third runway at london heathrow airport what steps has the commission taken to ensure that the proposed third runway at london heathrow airport does not contravene eu air and noise pollution regulations?
question no 43 by georgios papastamkos (h-0366/07) subject: european environmental governance and the environment does the commission intend to develop a comprehensive and coherent 'green governance' action programme which codifies, simplifies and makes visible to stakeholders the existing regulatory framework and includes new environmental-related legislative initiatives, reflects the eu's external commitments on the environment and ensures the cohesion of the eu's environmental, trade and industrial policies?
question no 44 by mr david martin (h-0373/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: european union objectives for the concentration of greenhouse gas emissions the european union has set itself the strictest target in the world to limit the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.
the commission believes that the 550 parts per million (ppm) carbon dioxide equivalent target will limit global warming to a maximum of 2° above pre-industrial levels.
however, in a recent study, climate scientist malte meinshausen estimates that the likelihood of this goal limiting global warming to a maximum of 2 degrees is only 12 percent.
a draft report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) says that the likelihood may even be lower.
in 2005, a study by the commission itself concluded that to achieve a reasonable probability of limiting global warming to a maximum of 2°, it may be necessary to stabilise concentrations at a level well below 550 ppm co2.
what measures does the commission propose to take to reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases to 400 ppm, the value recommended by malte meinshausen, in order to achieve the maximum probability of limiting global warming to 2°c?
question no 45 by mr bernd posselt (h-0381/07) subject: tourism of waste how does the commission assess the development of waste tourism between bavaria and the czech republic and what measures does it intend to take to reduce it in the eu and in the regions bordering the eu?
question no 55 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0359/07) subject: new strategy for health and the environment what concrete action is the commission taking in the context of the new health strategy, particularly with regard to children, to prevent and combat behaviour that is harmful to health (smoking, alcohol, obesity)?
these situations demonstrate that farmers are among the first to be affected by climate change, and it is therefore important to ensure that public policies are put in place to guarantee farmers' income, even in times of crisis and crop destruction due to climate reasons, whether frost or hail, floods or droughts.
a new agricultural production strategy is needed which takes account of comparative natural advantages, the need to increase productivity and production levels and the integration of production systems into the framework of the ecological and climatic characteristics of each region, which has as its reference points food quality and the promotion of effective improvement of the incomes and living conditions of farmers, ensuring the future for young farmers and the food sovereignty to which each country is entitled.
on the other hand, the ageing of the population with the inherent and foreseeable increase in public expenditure requires ensuring the financial sustainability of social security models.
this sustainability will be all the more guaranteed if there are more conditions for instruments complementary to the pensions financed by the state.
apart from the technical issues linked to a conflict in the radio emissions on the different chips, these are in fact different issues.
this is a disproportionate measure, part of a supranational dynamic and the creation of eu-level monitoring and control instruments - such as the creation of a personal database - without even being accompanied by 'particularly serious and robust safeguards, mainly concerning the way data is collected and used' and without it even being possible to ensure its use 'in a relatively safe environment'.
in addition to the current mercury emissions from chlorine and alkaline mercury cell plants, when these plants convert to mercury-free technologies, the large amounts of mercury in their cells need to be managed in an environmentally appropriate manner.
when it comes to the transferability of pension rights, at least two fundamental aspects must be taken into account: ensuring workers' rights and the sustainability of public social security systems.
as regards public procurement, we note that it is also important as an instrument for promoting social and environmental policy, since it may contain criteria relating to both areas for the award of contracts.
this treaty is not just about finding a common legal denominator for the import, export and transfer of arms, about giving a global response to a completely globalised trade and about creating uniform criteria which subject arms trade to the imperatives of human rights, stability and sustainable development.
the european union can and must lead efforts in this area, striving to ensure that the lessons learned from the interpretation and application of its code of conduct, in particular with regard to the criteria of sustainable development and human rights, are applied in the new treaty, because these are two particularly linked aspects, as mrs ferrero-waldner has stressed.
some of these young people have been victims of violence or have been raised in a domestic violence environment, others feel uprooted, socially marginalized, still others follow the examples of violence they see on television.
the report (a6-0191/2007) by mrs zuzana roithová, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on consumer confidence in the digital environment (2006/2048 (ini)) is reproduced below.
the parliamentary committee points out that, in the context of the 'regional strategy paper 2007-2013' and the 'multiannual indicative programme for asia' proposed by the european commission, and in view of the regulation establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation - which states that 'the primary and fundamental objective of cooperation under this regulation is the eradication of poverty in partner countries and regions in the context of sustainable development' - it is not understood, for example, that 'in the context of support to the association of southeast asian nations (asean), the stated objectives of the institutional support programme and dialogue between regions' include support for 'eventual negotiations for the conclusion and implementation of an eu-asean free trade agreement'.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the premise that the market will solve the problem of energy supply and consumption by itself, which has already been refuted by numerous examples, is being defended with increasing fervor in an attempt to hide the fact that it is increasingly difficult to ignore that the 'market' has only worked for a few, with the accumulation of fabulous profits, but not for consumers, who are faced with the increasing price increase in the energy bill.
the energy sector, as a strategic sector of a country, is vital to its independence and sovereignty.
it is thus proved that a balance can develop the economy and safeguard the environment, and that a fragmented view of the sea and the oceans is a view without dimension or ambition.
what is desirable is a strategic approach that takes advantage of the potential for cooperation between the 27 member states, cooperation that takes into account the costs of combating illegal immigration, pollution, drug trafficking and smuggling or the fight for the security of european territory, intelligent cooperation in favour of the marine environment, which is in the interest of environmentalists as much as those who give priority to the economy.
pollution is a threat to nature but it is also a risk to the economic benefits we can derive from the sea and the oceans.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteurs, rapporteur, i would like to congratulate you on the excellent work you have done and would like to highlight six key concerns to be taken into account in the implementation of the european policy for the seas and oceans: to ensure that existing and new legislation is integrated into a single framework; that management is also integrated in the context of a maritime planning that takes into account all the interests involved; that the sea is integrated into existing environmental legislation, in particular by complying with international conventions such as the ospar convention; that management is put into practice based on marine ecosystems; that the development of fishing communities is promoted with the same approach as has been successfully developed in the rural area; that an integrated framework is created for the monitoring and enforcement of this legislation in the seas.
solutions for improving the quality of life in coastal areas, for building structures and developing the transport sector, for preserving the seabed and marine resources, for creating partnerships and centres of excellence aimed at sustainable management of the oceans and seas in the union of 27. the seas must be protected and enhanced in a common, shared way, in order to promote and ensure sustainable tourism, a balanced fisheries policy, a more environmentally friendly maritime transport sector, and the conscious and effective preservation of this essential element which is the sea.
climate change, pollution, urban pressure on coastal areas, the lack of treatment of water that flows into our seas are all matters that must receive our particular attention, study and common concern, in order to ensure the maintenance of a healthy marine ecosystem.
it is essential to combine these concerns with innovation and new energy resources that we can extract from the seas with energy from the waves and the creation of centres of excellence dedicated to the study of the oceans.
improved management and sustainable exploitation of marine resources, enhancement of coastal areas through careful coastal planning and specific measures to develop a comprehensive coastal policy, support for environmentally friendly maritime transport, including through the development of an effective european port strategy adapted to the characteristics of european zones, support for marine research, particularly in the field of medicine, energy and marine resources in general, promotion of social rights, taking into account the international labour organisation, in order to ensure excellent visibility and, finally, vocational training for the maritime sector, working at sea or working on land, and ensuring that tourism, as one of the main economic activities linked to the seas and oceans, is duly taken into account.
this situation is aggravated by the lack of effective measures for the sustainable management of fishing activities and by the uncontrolled use of fishing gear and practices that significantly damage the ecosystems of spawning/renewal areas of fisheries reserves.
question no 31 by mr bernd posselt (h-0460/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: strategy for the black sea region what is the status of the eu's external strategy for the development of the black sea region and what role do issues related to human rights, security and external energy policy play in this context?
question no 35 by mr papastamkos (h-0453/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: nuclear energy in the balkans what projects have been submitted to the commission concerning the construction of new nuclear power stations in the eu member states of the balkan peninsula and in south-eastern europe in general?
given the gradual closure of the reactors at the kozloduy plant and the simultaneous construction in belene, what is the energy map of the region?
in view of the concerns raised by the history of intense and strong seismic activity in the region, does the commission consider that nuclear energy is the right and responsible strategic solution to meet the energy needs of the countries in the region?
this runs counter to the eu's strategy of transporting less oil by sea to avoid negative ecological consequences and will have significant consequences for the oil supply of eight states, including six eu member states, namely lithuania, poland, hungary, slovakia, the czech republic and germany.
in march, eu heads of state and government declared that the aim of energy policy was to ensure the security of supply of eu member states with energy sources and the diversification of their infrastructure.
what are the forecasts and recommendations of the network of energy security correspondents (nesco)?
it is not just our most immediate interests that are at stake, but our core values of preserving the environment, respecting labour rights and ensuring the protection of some fundamental social issues.
in the case of relations with russia, you were courageous, going to see president putin in an environment which you knew would be hostile to you.
dialogue with africa is essential in the fight against illegal immigration and climate change.
but flexible working arrangements are not the only answer, nor is it the only path to the economic sustainability we advocate.
in the exploitation of resources, in transport, in trade, in the field of the environment, in scientific research, in the area of safety against environmental disasters, but also against illegal and criminal practices, we are in the territory of the global and the need for new responses as well.
question no 20 by leopold jósef rutowicz (h-0497/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: energy security in the european union over the next 20 years the supply of the traditional raw materials needed for energy production poses a number of growing problems, which is why energy sources are beginning to be used as a means of political pressure.
what level of energy security does the council want for the european union?
on the one hand, we must prevent disasters by combating climate change and taking environmentally friendly measures, in particular by reducing greenhouse gas emissions of co2 which are responsible for global warming.
i voted in favour of this report based on the commission's green paper on the future maritime policy of the union: a european vision for the oceans and seas, because i believe that the promotion of a prosperous and sustainable maritime economy is fundamental.
this report presents an integrated policy approach to this issue, with concrete proposals on shipping, maritime safety and security, tourism, fisheries, port policy, the marine environment, research, industry and spatial planning, including the proposal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from ships and the creation of a european coast guard.
we believe that a maritime policy based on cooperation between the different member states and translated at community level into a coordination of synergies that would add more value and boost the policies and measures linked to the sea defined by each country (such as fisheries, transport, environment, energy, among others) could have a positive impact.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in this connection, the rejection of our amendments is significant, as they indicate the principle issues we do not renounce, such as:- full respect for the sovereignty and competence of each member state in the management of its territorial waters and exclusive economic zones (eez), particularly with regard to marine resources - in particular biological ones - and the issues of safety, rescue and control of navigation in these waters;- the enhancement of the fisheries sector, given its strategic importance for different countries, such as portugal, ensuring the socioeconomic sustainability of this sector through appropriate policies and financial means; that is why we are voting against it.
dissatisfaction with the implementation and results of european transport policy does not negate the improvements that have been made, from transport safety to quality of service or the environment.
finally, enhanced cooperation at european, national, regional and local levels is needed to link good practice and transport policy with other national or community policies such as energy, environment, tourism or innovation.
in this case, the first objective is the gradual economic integration of ukraine into the eu internal market, ensuring the creation of a competitive market economy (with particular emphasis on the energy sector), the close participation of ukraine in the eu's common foreign and security policy, and, we add, the elimination from reality (and, if possible, from memory) of any trace of the civilizational advances achieved with the first experience of building socialism in the world.
there is every reason to believe that the risks are increasing because of climate change and global warming.
we therefore insist on the need to revise the solidarity fund regulation to cover regional disasters and to create mechanisms to support the affected populations and reforestation, which include a component for the prevention of large-scale disasters caused by climate change.
it is necessary to invest in a culture of prevention that takes account of natural disasters of the mediterranean type and a profound change in the cap to combat the abandonment of production by many small and medium-sized farmers and family farming, stimulating agricultural production, biodiversity and land use.
the eu must activate the financial instruments and means to ensure that the material needs of the affected populations are met and to promote the socioeconomic and environmental recovery of the affected regions.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i therefore believe that it is time to review many of our policies, particularly in the field of forests and rural development, but not only that, also in the field of environmental rules, in order to prevent man from making the destructive force of nature even more destructive.
in addition to the praise for the great benefits that the single market brings (to the large economic and financial groups), it is stressed that protectionist attitudes persist, which must be combated, and that progress must be made in other areas which are not yet fully liberalised and integrated, such as financial and tax services, in addition to transport, postal services and energy.
we see logistics as a necessary tool for the effective planning and implementation of a balanced and sustainable use of the various modes of transport.
logistics is thus at the heart of a process of rationalisation to achieve the most competitive and sustainable levels in the future.
despite the benefits that modern logistics brings in the areas of economic efficiency and competitiveness, the optimisation of the use of resources, the creation of employment opportunities, and the protection of the environment and the improvement of safety, we recognise that there are still problems to be solved, including the chronic under-funding of the tens, in which the development of freight transport logistics is embedded.
given the high growth rates forecast for freight transport, the future of logistics will be crucial to benefit from efficient, sustainable, affordable and safe transport.
we believe that the sustainability of fisheries resources is necessary for the continuation of fishing activity and the viability of the fisheries sector, but we reject a fleet management policy - like the one adopted in the eu - and the encouragement of the permanent slaughter of vessels, which has as its main consequences a sharp reduction in the means of production and a radical reduction in jobs.
in order to achieve the objective of a sustainable balance between fishing capacity and opportunities, account should be taken of the socioeconomic situation of the fisheries sector by implementing mechanisms for subsidising or compensating fishermen who are affected by the economic consequences of environmentally friendly fishing and measures to reduce fishing effort, in particular in the most disadvantaged regions dependent on the sector.
similarly, the adaptation of fishing effort to existing resources and the protection of the marine environment - while promoting small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing and defending fishing communities - would be particularly promoted by increasing the exclusive access zone of member states from the current 12 nautical miles to 24 nautical miles and, in the case of the outermost regions, from 100 nautical miles to 200 nautical miles.
the report says that around 110 billion tonnes/km of dangerous goods - to people and the environment - are transported in the eu each year, representing around 8% of total goods transport.
in this context, we believe that the necessary and useful cooperation at eu level should safeguard the full sovereignty of the member states over the transport of (dangerous) goods within their territory, for example through the right to regulate, issue individual authorisations and prohibit the movement of the transport of dangerous goods for reasons of national security or environmental protection.
the green paper on climate change draws attention to natural phenomena aggravated by climate change.
climate change is expected to lead to reduced rainfall, increased temperature, and increased incidence of heat waves and droughts, which will further contribute to desertification.
unlike other natural disasters, the impacts of drought do not affect infrastructure, but the productive and environmental fabric, and the lives of people.
it is no accident that the informal meeting of the ministers for the environment, held in lisbon a few days ago, was devoted to the problems of water scarcity and drought, which is, moreover, one of the concerns and priorities of the environmental programme of the portuguese presidency, as has already been mentioned by the secretary of state.
bilateral agreements between estonia and russia coordinate the protection of the sensitive ecosystem of peipsi and of fish stocks.
according to him, the eu would be against the project if lithuania's energy and ecological interests were harmed.
what role will this play in the future eu's common energy policy?
on the other hand, if the european union were to always opt for the realism of economic, energy, geostrategic or other interests, it would soon find that instead of defending immediate advantages, it was creating greater future dangers.
madam president, first of all allow me to thank the rapporteur, ms fraga estévez, and all the members of the committee on fisheries for a very thorough report on the implementation of sustainable fishing based on maximum sustainable yield (msy).
a longer-term approach will also allow for more stability and sustainability in the exploitation of fisheries resources.
i am sure that we are in agreement on the objectives of urgently taking measures to improve the very poor state of fisheries resources in europe in order to bring the stocks to sustainable levels, which, at the same time, will improve the profitability of the fishing industries in the long term.
in particular i appreciate and share the committee on fisheries’ view that the common fisheries policy needs a new management model for the setting of fishing opportunities, the recovery of depleted stocks and the adaptation of fishing effort levels to sustainable and profitable levels.
this progressive approach will allow environmental, economic and social aspects to be explored.
the plans include provisions for regular revisions of the targets that allow for the adaptation of msy targets where necessary, for example, where there is a change in the natural environment or where there is a revision of the scientific advice.
economic and social analyses are also important in this process and the commission will accompany all proposals for management plans with impact assessments where economic, social and environmental aspects of the proposals will be analysed.
i welcome the words of the commissioner when he speaks of the need for a new management model, when this proposal emphasizes the concept of ecosystem management, i think we are also moving in the right direction, but i think that by looking at this concept of maximum sustainable yield as something radically new we are here making a mistake, because this concept, which is a theoretical concept, has always been the basis for all the fixing of quotas and tacs, and it would not be possible to do so if it were not based on this concept.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in general, following the main points of the report under discussion, which are of crucial importance for the fisheries sector, we consider it useful to highlight the differences between the long and short term in applying the principle of sustainability in fisheries.
as regards the long-term objective for fisheries, the main objective set in johannesburg, namely to achieve a maximum sustainable catch stock, can be accepted.
however, it will be important to stress that in order to formulate the objective of maximum sustainable yield, scientific analysis is indispensable to determine the fishing mortality intensity that ensures the maximum catch that the fishery resource can provide in a sustainable way.
this requires choosing a criterion on sustainability and determining the level of fishing that produces the maximum sustainable catch value.
as a final consideration, i would like to support the need for sustainability measures to be accompanied by an assessment of the socioeconomic consequences and costs of their implementation.
what needs to be done is not only to maintain existing rights in current legislation - including financial services - but to improve where they are not sufficiently covered, such as in the area of telecommunications and energy.
there is no doubt that the universality and indivisibility of human rights must be promoted, 'understood not only in the sense of civil and political rights but also as social, environmental, economic and cultural rights'.
the sustainability of fisheries resources is a necessary condition for ensuring the long-term viability of fishing and the fisheries sector.
the safeguarding of the sustainability of resources through the implementation of long-term plans and short-term measures should necessarily involve the assessment of their socio-economic consequences and, consequently, provide for the financial means to ensure the continuity of vessels, employment and income for the sector and fishermen.
this is the relationship which, in our view, will best reflect and should underpin the application of the principle of maximum sustainable yield.
in other words, the 'maximum sustainable yield' should not be used as an instrument to promote (even more) the killing of vessels and the destruction of jobs.
resource sustainability plans and measures should be based on scientific fisheries research, not forgetting other measures that take into account the consequences of natural and human factors with an impact on marine ecosystems.
the revitalization of rail transport in the european union is thus an important contribution to a sustainable transport system and to the completion of the european single market.
the high standards of environment, health and quality set in the european union are permanently destroyed in practice by imports, subcontracting and relocations by european companies themselves.
rail transport is a strategic sector for the development of a country because of its importance in the movement of goods and services and in the mobility of workers and populations, with enormous benefits for the environment and for social and territorial cohesion.
i voted in favour of the thomsen report (a6-0287/2007) on a roadmap for renewable energy in europe because i believe that increased investment in renewable energy is essential to reduce the european union's external dependence on energy supplies, to reduce co2 emissions and, consequently, to contribute to combating climate change.
this report highlights the importance of sustainable use of biofuels in the transport sector to reduce oil dependence and greenhouse gas emissions, thereby reducing the environmental impact.
this is a very unbalanced report, despite some positive changes compared to previous reports, in particular when it admits the inevitability on the horizon of the exhaustion of fossil energy resources, not to mention peak oil, and when it takes on the environmental and social damage associated with agrofuels, which until recently were still heavily indebted.
but then it forgets the need for a different definition of the priorities of energy policy, which focuses on reducing costs for the consumer, on rationalising consumption with a view to reducing it (and not just on energy efficiency), on less polluting public transport, on a real public policy in the interests of the population.
when he talks about the idea of establishing a common european energy policy, he is trying to find ways of giving greater support to the private economic groups in the sector, overriding the sovereign right of each member state to define its energy policies.
the main objective is to secure ever-increasing profits, in particular by using the market for transactions in emission rights for so-called greenhouse gases.
the commission has therefore decided to take two measures: rationalising consumption and increasing the efficiency (especially in terms of energy) of what we produce.
as the adopted resolution very rightly points out, 'renewable energy sources are a key element in a sustainable energy mix, contributing to: less dependence on imports and diversification of the fuel mix; reduction of co2 and other emissions; development of new innovative technologies; and creation of employment and regional development opportunities'; concluding, inter alia, that more use should be made of eu research and technology programmes to encourage the development of renewable energy technologies.
the strengthening of the eu-brazil dialogue therefore makes perfect sense as it will allow deepening cooperation in key sectors such as energy security and sustainable development, biological diversity, climate change, the fight against poverty and exclusion, democracy and human rights, etc.
the joint statement by the president of the european commission and the president of mercosur, the president of uruguay, tabaré vásquez, at their meeting on 19 december, promising a joint public statement by the two blocs on the environment and climate change by the end of the year, is an important example of this political collaboration.
the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
this report starts from a real problem - the union's energy dependence - but gives the wrong answer.
climate change, the weight of fossil fuels, a high-energy lifestyle -- these are the adversaries.
just yesterday, le monde was reporting on the findings of paul crutzen: one litre of agrofuel can contribute up to twice as much to the greenhouse effect as its fossil equivalent.
this resolution exposes the glaring inadequacies of european energy policies.
this report emphasizes the political dimension of the european energy market.
as long as the member states, in an approach comparable to that of the european defence equipment market, insist on promoting a sovereign and anachronistic protectionism at home and a liberalism more adam smith-like at home, europe will continue to flounder in a world where all the major players see energy as an eminently political and strategic issue.
the very sustainability of european energy policy and the environmental implications of the lack of diversification of our energy sources require an urgent change of course.
the eu's external energy policy must integrate into its strategic criteria imperatives of human rights, good governance and environmental sustainability.
in conclusion, pollution and the post-kyoto scenario, the price of oil, moral and human rights imperatives, political and economic instability resulting from dependence on hydrocarbons, the potential of new environmental technologies to stimulate a new industrial revolution in europe and the world - all of this is conspiring around us to force the eu to develop a multifaceted but coherent external energy policy.
we share the view that this measure will enable at least half of the present 3.89 million hectares to be returned to production in a pessimistic scenario, and that this could represent, in a year with a normal climate, an additional production of at least 5 to 10 million tonnes, even if this is partly less productive land because it is naturally the least productive land, the land which farmers set aside for set-aside.
on the other hand, we are all aware that relocating all this area to production will have obvious negative impacts, both in terms of the release of co2 from the soil and in terms of biodiversity, since it is now widely recognised that the most valuable environmental value that set-aside has brought is the soil.
we reiterate the need for a thorough review of the cap to take account of the characteristics of the soil and biodiversity of each country, to adapt to a possible rotation of production and to guarantee farmers adequate incomes without compromising the interests of consumers in healthy and quality food.
energy is a central strategic issue of our time.
the various eu countries, which are highly energy dependent, are aiming to dominate the exploitation of existing energy resources, hence the proposal to create an energy component in the common foreign and security policy, which, if implemented, would also be a way of overcoming the contradictions between their main powers.
to do this, the eu should proclaim its 'market' and 'competition' and its enlargement to other countries, in the framework of so-called 'energy communities', the 'energy charter treaty' - 'guaranteeing investments' and 'the right to compensation in the event of expropriation and/or nationalisation' - or the inclusion of 'energy security clauses' in trade agreements.
given the growing importance of the energy sector in contemporary societies, on the one hand, and the growing international interdependence, which is also a common feature of this time, on the other hand, it is impossible to exclude energy policy from the external dimension of european policy, either at the level of the member states or at the level of the common foreign policy.
i therefore agree with the resolution in that it states that 'while member states should retain their sovereign right to make strategic choices regarding energy savings, exploit their energy resources and make decisions on supply structures, it is necessary (to promote a common approach, not necessarily a single policy) to cover security of supply, transit and investment in the context of energy security and (to) promote energy efficiency and savings as well as (...) clean and renewable energy sources, in particular in relations with countries whose energy consumption is growing rapidly'.
but as for the idea of a senior official for external energy policy, this dimension must be present in the action of the european foreign policy officer, because i do not think that a more specific approach makes sense than this.
the overwhelming majority of members in this house agree with the humanitarian ngos on the ground, agree with the refugees in the region, living in miserable conditions and in a climate of constant fear, and also agree with the un secretary-general.
question no 14 by mr liam aylward (h-0631/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: the use of pesticides can the council give a full statement on what structures are being put in place at eu level to achieve a greater level of coordination between the efforts made in europe and america so that the 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 can be achieved?
this is an act of interference and military 'presence' with neo-colonial ambitions, a real war operation in a region characterized by its complexity and where major interests linked to the control of the immense energy resources are at stake.
we all know that we need to break the deadlock to channel our energies into promoting economic development, creating jobs and combating climate change.
although the necessary analysis has not been possible (and we must not forget that 'the devil is in the details'), i would like to reiterate, as a first reaction, that: - any initiative in this area must safeguard the competence of the member states with regard to the management of their territory, in particular their territorial waters and exclusive economic zones (eezs), in their various forms, such as: exploitation of resources, transport, research, border management and security, spatial planning, the environment or economic activities such as fishing.
aquaculture should not be promoted in the same way as the fisheries sector, given its strategic importance for different countries, such as portugal, and its socioeconomic sustainability should be ensured through appropriate policies and financial means.
the report also stresses that femicide cannot be attributed solely to a climate of widespread violence.
we therefore pay particular attention to this serious problem in mexico and in some central american countries, where there are still genuine femicides which cannot be attributed solely to a climate of widespread violence.
in view of the current needs of the sector and ecosystem concerns, the european commission has proposed that council regulation (ec) no 1543/2000 be revised and an examination of the proposal for a council regulation for a new community framework for the collection, management and use of data in the fisheries sector is currently under way in the ep.
we voted in favour of this report, which expresses the european parliament's solidarity with women who are victims of violence all over the world, including in our countries of the european union, but which also highlights the seriousness of the situation in mexico and in some countries in central america, where there is still genuine femicide, with thousands of violent deaths of women in recent years, which cannot be attributed solely to a climate of widespread violence.
this convention, which aims to establish the obligations of the parties with regard to the assessment of the environmental impact of certain activities at an early stage of planning and imposes a general obligation on member states to notify and consult on all major projects which may have significant harmful transboundary environmental impacts, was signed by the community and its member states on 26 february 1991 and approved by the community on 27 june 1997. parliament approved a number of amendments, notably the one which broadens the definition of 'public' in article 1 (10) of the convention, clarifying that the public which may participate in the convention's proceedings includes civil society, in particular non-governmental organisations, and the one which opens the convention to accession by countries which are not members of the united nations economic commission for europe, subject to approval by the conference of the parties, which we support.
i voted in favour of the report by mrs christa klaß on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a framework for action at community level on the sustainable use of pesticides because it meets the objective of reducing the use of plant protection products and contributes to high safety standards for man, animals and the environment.
when the 6th environment action programme was adopted, it was recognised that it was desirable to reduce the effects of plant protection products on human health and the environment, stressing the need for a more environmentally friendly use of pesticides and advocating a two-pronged approach with full transposition and appropriate monitoring of the existing legislative framework and the development of a thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides.
the directive aims to reduce the risks and effects on human health and the environment of the use of plant protection products.
i voted in favour of the hiltrud breyer report on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, as it will ensure high safety standards for man, animals and the environment by establishing stringent but simplified procedures and by rationalising resources.
this proposal should follow the rationale of the sixth environmental action programme with the aim of applying current knowledge of prospective and retrospective risk and hazard assessment strategies for man and the environment and of creating coherence with other policies.
thus, also following the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides, the regulation should ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, making the precautionary principle prevail, but measures should be proportionate and take into account the principle of subsidiarity.
each member state should retain the possibility to go beyond community standards for protection standards and to take product approval decisions to achieve objectives of pesticide action plans, health programmes or environmental protection measures adopted at national level, based on national specific conditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on fisheries, within its powers, has submitted to the committee on budgets a number of amendments which have been largely accepted and relate, in particular, to the strengthening of european maritime policy in preparatory actions for the sustainable development of a sea of opportunities which are the european oceans and seas, to an increase in resources in the area of fisheries control in order to ensure the sustainability of the seas and oceans and to the collection of information vital for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy, for the operability and efficiency of the community fisheries control agency and, as regards the outermost regions, to ensure the continuity and effectiveness of vital programmes for the minimisation of the constraints which specifically and permanently affect these regions.
it is known that in july 2006 the commission presented a thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides, together with a proposal for a directive establishing a framework for action at community level for the sustainable use of pesticides and a proposal for a regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market, with the aim of reducing the overall risks and negative impacts of pesticide use on human health and the environment.
this thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides concerns only plant protection products, i.e.
there are several positive aspects here, notably the recognition of the role of conventional energy sources and their need for energy production, the opening up of prospects for the relaunch of nuclear fission energy and the call for the lifting of restrictions on new coal-fired power stations.
it also opens up prospects for carbon capture and sequestration and calls for international cooperation, including with non-eu countries such as china and india.
it also emphasises the exploitation of indigenous resources and puts a more realistic plan for the contribution of renewable energies.
it welcomes some criticism of the production and use of liquid biofuels and warns of the need for countries to promote more r & d in the energy sector, in particular as a way of overcoming environmental and nuclear safety problems.
but it has several negative aspects, the most important of which is that the growing problems of the oil market are associated exclusively with short-term and episodic issues, the strategic issue of depletion is ignored, and the enormous potential of biomethane produced from waste is still ignored, a trend which is already taking place in several european countries.
with the launch of the energy package at the beginning of the year, the european commission made clear the need for a technological action plan for fossil fuels and also underlined the imperative of a pragmatic approach to nuclear energy.
the reality is clear: there are no equally efficient and cheap alternatives to fossil fuels, which means that they will remain the central and indispensable component of energy in the eu beyond 2020. this is why we must seek new solutions to the challenge of energy supply in the eu, taking into account the issues of competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
all investments in the development of new energy technologies are therefore of the greatest importance, both for the reduction of the impact on the environment and the safety of existing installations, and for the development of new energy sources and for a more efficient and cleaner use of fossil fuels.
it is essential that the member states and the union focus their efforts on energy research, from the more efficient use of energy sources to new technologies and the cleaner use of existing energy sources, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
the resolution is also illuminating on this issue by highlighting 'the importance of turkey as a transit platform for diversifying gas supplies to the eu' and 'energy projects involving turkey in the south caucasus' as well as 'turkey's geo-strategic position in the region' whose 'transport and logistics role will become even more important in the coming years'.
finally, it is never too late to recall the geostrategic importance of turkey, whether in the matter of the security of europe's borders, whether in energy supplies, in particular as an alternative to dependence on russian gas, whether as a partner in the dialogue with the islamic countries or, finally, in the matter of iran.
that is why we will discuss and debate with africa such new and modern issues, so to speak, as the energy issue, the climate change issue, issues linked to migration, mobility and employment, without, of course, neglecting issues which remain fundamental to our traditional partnership, such as peace, security, democratic governance and human rights, issues linked to science and the information society.
question no 7 by mr lambert van nistelrooij (h-0689/2007) subject: the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' subject: merger between suez and gaz de france on 3 september it was announced that the boards of directors of the french energy company suez and the state-owned company gaz de france had decided to carry out the planned merger, creating the fourth largest company in the energy sector, after gazprom, electricité de france and eon.
does the council consider that these merger projects are still in line with the principles it currently advocates for the liberalisation of the energy market in the european union?
has the council discussed further measures to be considered at eu level to address the concerns expressed in the 2007 report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc)?
we are all against the indiscriminate spraying of poppy fields, as advocated by the united states of america, which will only add to the ranks of the taliban without affecting the production of heroin in a sustainable way.
this partnership agreement was concluded for a renewable period of six years, starting from 1 january 2007, and portugal obtained 7 fishing opportunities for surface longliners, which represents an increase of one fishing licence compared to the one stipulated in the previous agreement.
the house also voted to extend the deadline for the submission of a report to the european parliament on the implementation of the eu's new energy strategy.
mr president, while i agree with the commission's proposal and the rapporteur's, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that it does not meet the objectives of parliament as described in the report on reducing the impact of aviation on climate change, and i would like to ask you to pay particular attention to the situation of the most isolated territories, which are particularly dependent on air transport, and in particular the outermost regions.
nor to the question posed by the commission itself in its communication on the 'strategy for the outermost regions' last october, which asked, and i quote: 'what measures would be necessary to ensure that the objective of reducing emissions does not have a negative impact on accessibility, the economy and the citizens of the ors?'
the european parliament, by voting in favour of amendments nos 99 and 100, which are supported by the pse, will respond to the above issues by establishing an impact assessment and appropriate mediation measures, ensuring the necessary and appropriate future inclusion of the outermost regions in emissions trading, which will ensure the environmental and economic sustainability and mobility of these regions which are totally dependent on air transport due to their geographical situation.
the commission's proposal for a new council regulation on the collection of data in the fisheries sector aims to develop long-term sampling programmes which are well integrated at regional level and include ecological, economic, environmental and social data.
the revision of the data collection regulation is intended to respond to new demands arising from the need to move towards fisheries management (based on fleet and fishing areas as an alternative to fish stock management) and to apply an ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
soil is known to have a basic social function, being essential for the production of food and other agricultural crops and the storage and processing of energy and minerals, as well as acting as a natural filter for groundwater, the main source of drinking water, a habitat for a plurality of organisms living on or on the surface of the soil, a platform for human activity and an important element of the landscape and cultural heritage.
so it's a key component of the earth's environment.
as the impact assessment carried out by the commission shows that soil degradation is worsening, there is concern for soil protection, linked also to concern for climate change, the preservation of a sufficient supply of unpolluted water, the protection of biodiversity and the fight against desertification and deforestation.
i consider the commission's analysis to be relevant and i agree with the proposed strategy on soil protection, a non-renewable resource which provides vital services for human activities and the survival of ecosystems.
i support the prodi report, considering its proposals to better understand the relationship between soils and the issues of biodiversity, desertification and climate change to be particularly relevant.
the protection of the environment in europe is a politically relevant subject, the development of which has been intensifying in recent years and whose research remains a priority for the union.
the protection of the environment in europe cannot therefore be achieved without the protection of soils.
considering that soil protection is closely linked to the main environmental challenges of international dimension, there is a need to study community legislation specifically aimed at protecting the soil itself, which could provide for the exchange of information and the coordination of good practices between member states.
the integration of soil protection into a future climate regime thus seems to imply the recognition of the need for greater awareness of the role of soil protection in mitigating and adapting to climate change.
i voted in favour of the peter liese report on a proposal to amend directive 2003/87/ec and to include aviation activities in the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme in the community, as i consider the integration of the aviation sector in the emission allowance trading scheme to be a key measure to mitigate the effects of climate change.
the contribution of aviation to climate change is substantial and growing rapidly, and this proposal for a directive is therefore an important step towards meeting the ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union.
i believe, however, that it is essential to adopt measures to adapt this directive to the reality of the outermost regions, so as to avoid the social and economic impact of the emissions regime being particularly high in these regions.
we are against emissions trading, which always protects those with the most money to buy emission rights and does not solve the problem of excess co2 emissions.
the commission's proposal to include aviation in the emissions trading scheme is an important element in the package of measures to be taken internationally.
we cannot deny the significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions in the aviation sector; the solution to the problem through emission allowance trading therefore appears to be a useful instrument, especially if it is properly designed and articulated with other measures that support market stability and do not distort competition.
the measures we are taking today will set a precedent for the negotiations that follow at international level, and the union must therefore have a strong position and solutions that actually have an effect on protecting the environment, while defending our industries and our freedoms.
while recognising that this is a difficult exercise, the rapporteur and all of us should be commended for our efforts to seek commitments that make a real case for mitigating the effects of climate change and balancing economic and social activities in europe.
on the other hand, it is asia that will win or lose the challenge of combating global warming.
i voted in favour of the cristina gutiérrez-cortines report on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a framework for the protection of soil and amending directive 2004/35/ec, because i believe that soils are a vital resource that must be protected to mitigate the effects of climate change and ensure that the activities of future generations can take place in a safe and healthy environment.
the european parliament has significantly amended it with proposals in defence of the principle of subsidiarity, recognising the importance of agriculture and the right of 'each member state, taking into account its climate, soil characteristics ... to decide its own agricultural policy in relation to soil' and recognising different approaches to soil protection.
i consider it extremely important that there should be a framework directive on soil protection, since it is a non-renewable resource that provides vital services for human activities and the survival of ecosystems, especially as the issue of climate change is becoming increasingly worrying and there is no specific european legislation on soil protection at present.
however, directive 2001/18/ec on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms covers the experimental release of gmos into the environment, i.e.
the introduction of gmos into the environment for experimental purposes (such as field testing) and the placing on the market of gmos (products containing or consisting of gmos), for example for cultivation, import or industrial processing.
'the acquisition by community companies of strategic stakes in certain russian companies', 'the importance of improving the investment climate in russia' for the benefit of the major financial groups in the eu or 'equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment' based on the principles of the 'energy charter treaty'.
in energy, in kosovo, in the caucasus, in central asia, in ukraine, in moldova, in the iranian nuclear issue, russia has not been a sufficient part of the solution.
only then will it be possible to achieve the central objective of making the bali meeting the starting point for all world opinions to make clear and quantified political commitments to combat climate change by 2009. all parties have had to make sacrifices and adjustments.
we shall have achieved our objective if this text is approved by parliament as a whole, and if it gives democratic legitimacy to the european union's pioneering role in environmental and climate matters before the whole world.
environmental commitments need to be reconciled with the development process to which the poorest countries and regions are entitled, including access to normal levels of well-being and comfort, both by the least developed countries and by the vast populations of emerging economies.
european pioneering is a duty, but it should also be seen as an opportunity to gain comparative technological and innovation advantages associated with the environment.
however, the truth is that this advantage will only materialize if environmental concerns and commitments gradually become the rule of the world economy.
(the sitting was suspended at 7.45 p.m. and resumed at 9.05 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr braghetto, on the excellent work he is doing here and i would like to start by saying that the inability of the current common fisheries policy to ensure the sustainability of this activity is most clearly illustrated by the situation we are facing today with bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and in particular in the mediterranean.
traditional fishing techniques such as the use of the pole and the hook, which are environmentally sustainable but less economically profitable, have been forced to confront modern technologies and highly sophisticated means, which are incomparably more profitable in the short term but not environmentally sustainable, and it is only now that some discriminatory measures against the latter type of vessels have finally emerged, which i would like to support and emphasize my full support for what has been said here by my comrade rosa miguélez, namely that it is essential to give priority to artisanal fishing methods.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
finally, we regret that our proposal, which emphasized that small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing, in addition to employing thousands of people, allows for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, was rejected.
i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on limiting global climate change to 2 degrees celsius - trajectory to 2020 and beyond (cop 13 and cop/mop3).
given that climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing societies today, i believe it is essential that the european union reiterates its leadership role at the bali conference and that a future global climate agreement after 2012 is reached.
in the spirit of this overall objective, and although i had indicated my support for the socialist party as a shadow rapporteur, i was forced to abstain in the final vote as an individual, in protest against two aspects: the introduction into the text of amendment no 7, which supports nuclear energy; and the rejection of the method used by the epp in the face of the spirit of compromise which presided over the negotiation of the text.
it is a fact that we are witnessing unnatural climate change, resulting from many factors, but particularly from the predatory nature of the very marked and accelerated neoliberal policies, which require effective measures to adapt human societies to new living conditions.
climate change predicted in a number of credible and scientifically substantiated scenarios may not be slow and progressive, depending on the measures taken in the meantime.
it is therefore urgent to take further action at global level and across the board to avoid more serious problems in the future and even the multiplication of human and environmental tragedies.
but we also insist that a break with neoliberal policies is necessary at european and world level, otherwise the great powers and multinationals will continue to impose their profitable interests, both in the exploitation of natural resources and in international trade, including greenhouse gas emissions, which will have very negative effects on balanced human development.
the report also calls for 'more joint action between the eu and the us' to 'promote democracy, improve energy security and strengthen regional security in the eu's neighbourhood', a point so elucidating that it was watered down in the plenary vote.
these changes can only be successfully implemented if there is a climate of trust between the social partners, which can only be developed on the basis of the promotion of social dialogue.
we do not have time to mention other equally important aspects of this report, such as tourism accessible to tourists with reduced mobility, passenger rights, or the external promotion of european destinations and the development of sustainable policies.
it is nevertheless sufficiently demonstrated, and i conclude with this, that the european parliament has done its job and we hope that the other public authorities, in partnership with the private sector, will strengthen their spirit of cooperation and respond effectively to the challenges of developing a renewed and sustainable european tourism policy.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new european tourism policy proposed by the european commission and discussed with the costa report deserves my full support because of the main objectives pursued following the relaunch of the lisbon strategy - improving competitiveness, creating more and better jobs, sustainable development - and because of the instruments proposed by the commission to achieve them: coordination at the level of the commission and the national authorities, cooperation between the different stakeholders and the creation of specific support actions.
i myself, in order to strengthen the terms of the commission's proposals and to take account of the rapporteur's proposals, tabled several amendments following up on the positions i took in the queiro report, namely the need to take due account of the lack of accessibility of regions with specific natural or geographical characteristics such as, among others, the outermost regions, the need for the renewed european tourism policy to ensure the economic, social, territorial, environmental and cultural sustainability of european tourism, the promotion of europe as a tourist destination or a group of attractive tourist destinations, the need for coordination of policies with a direct or indirect impact on tourism, cooperation between the major stakeholders in the sector - the european commission and the member states, regions, local authorities and tourism services - and the better use of existing european financial instruments.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the detailed work he has produced on a subject which is complex, that of the relationship between trade and climate change.
europe has been an international leader in the fight against the worsening of climate change.
this relationship between the environment and trade is not simple, it is not sufficiently achieved, particularly in the world trade organization.
in the european union, meeting climate objectives requires an effective effort to reduce carbon emissions, which is reflected in the production conditions and costs of a growing number of productive sectors.
it is time to ask: in a world of global competition and faced with a problem of planetary survival, does it make sense that this effort to combat climate change should be reduced above all to a european effort?
is it acceptable that emissions from so many sectors are leaving european soil and coming from the most environmentally unprotected parts of the world?
can environmental violation be a legitimate source of competitiveness?
is it acceptable that for the main tradable goods worldwide there are different environmental rules depending on the part of the world where they are produced?
we must find a balance between the environment, including here the climate, and trade, which ensures a collective, proportionate, equitable effort, but one which does not exempt anyone, much less the world's major trading partners.
the report reinforces and complements the terms of the commission proposal, improving it, in particular, by providing for:- the defence of the harmonisation of quality standards for tourist accommodation in europe and support for a european oversight of quality management systems;- consumer protection, in particular in the context of electronic tourist services (bookings and payments);;- in the context of accessible tourism, the consideration not only of tourists with reduced mobility, but also of the lack of accessibility of regions with specific natural or geographical characteristics, such as, among others, the outermost regions;- the promotion of the sustainability (economic, social, territorial, environmental and cultural) of tourism;- the strengthening of air passenger rights;- the promotion of the destination europe and european tourist destinations.
- or, the reduction of seasonal demand, the minimisation of the impact of resource use and waste production and tourism available to all and without discrimination of any kind.
we welcome the adoption of the proposals aimed at:- ensuring sustainable tourism, supporting other upstream and downstream economic activities, enhancing the landscape, cultural, historical and environmental heritage and as a factor contributing to territorial cohesion; - to counteract the emergence of mass tourism enterprises with a strong negative impact on local communities, the environment and the historical and cultural heritage;
in writing.
i voted in favour of the alain lipietz report on trade and climate change because i believe that europe must play a leading role in the world in the fight against climate change and therefore i believe that substantial changes are needed in the european union's trade policy to promote a low-carbon economy.
this report highlights the need to develop production, consumption and trade patterns that mitigate climate change and its economic impact.
measures are therefore needed, such as encouraging local production as a means of alleviating transport needs and introducing common labelling standards and schemes in the european union to raise consumer awareness of the environmental implications of different products.
we fully agree with the report when it says that 'the current economic model, which is based on the constant maximisation of consumption, production and trade, is not sustainable, as it implies an ever-increasing demand for resources and transport, as well as an increase in waste and emissions'.
we also stress very negatively the introduction of the 'polluter pays' principle, preferably through the global extension of the emissions trading system, which we reject because of its consequences.
by promoting the dependence of the agricultural economy of many of these countries on the eu, the aim is to tie these countries to an agreement that imposes on them an export-oriented agricultural model of monoculture, resulting in obvious and very serious economic, social and environmental problems for the peoples of many african countries as well as for the peoples of the eu countries.
the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environmental policy (marine strategy framework directive) [09388/2/2007 - c6-0261/2007 - 2005/0211 (cod)) (rapporteur: marie-noëlle lienemann) (a6-0389/2007) ] is hereby adopted.
the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environmental policy (marine strategy framework directive) [09388/2/2007 - c6-0261/2007 - 2005/0211 (cod)) (rapporteur: marie-noëlle lienemann) (a6-0389/2007) ] is hereby adopted.
in defence of traditional vine and wine production, employment and biodiversity, we therefore insist on the defence of planting rights, the maintenance of support for vineyard restructuring, production control and quality control, with particular attention to family farming and cooperative wineries, support for the distillation of alcohol by mouth and the use of grape must produced in the region, but we disagree with support for added sugar.
while the increase in revenue is largely due to the vat and gni balances, budget under-implementation is largely responsible for the significant reduction in expenditure, with cuts mainly affecting cohesion, fisheries, the environment and agriculture.
i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading by mrs marie-noëlle lienemann (a6-0389/2007) on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environment policy (marine strategy framework directive).
the compromise reached between the european parliament and the council will enable a framework to be established for the protection and preservation of the marine environment, the prevention of its deterioration and, where possible, the recovery of that environment in areas where it has been affected.
the recommendation for the second reading of the report establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environment policy was adopted today.
it would be important to have a policy for the marine environment within the framework of the necessary cooperation and coordination between the different countries, safeguarding their full sovereignty over their territory and resources, and taking into account economic, social and environmental aspects.
on the other hand, it is also necessary to take into account that marine pollution and intensive maritime transport have impacts on fishing activity and the protection of marine resources.
fishermen are therefore the main stakeholders in the protection and regeneration of the marine environment.
i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading by mr holger krahmer (a6-0398/2007) on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on ambient air quality and cleaner air in europe, as i consider that the text negotiated between the ep and the council is overall positive, both from the point of view of the protection of public health and from the point of view of environmental protection.
in europe, 360,000 people die ten years earlier as a result of air pollution.
studies show that the effects of air pollution affect children's health in particular, so air quality plans should be able to include specific measures to protect sensitive groups of the population, such as children.
pollution of the natural resource 'air' is becoming more and more important, especially in the regions and urban centres of the european union countries where the population density is higher.
air pollution is harmful to human health, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases and ecosystems.
it is a mode of transport that is at the forefront of combating the negative effects of air pollution, road hazards and congestion itself.
this system has led to the abandonment of production by many small and mediumsized farmers and family farming and the abandonment of rural areas, to losses of biodiversity and to a further detachment from the objective of food sovereignty in some member states, notably in portugal.
agriculture, fisheries and environment) in 2007. with this revision of the iia and the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, the eu is ensuring the implementation of this major 'priority' by securing its financing.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission's proposals express concern about the commission's intention to review trade defence instruments, and we believe that it is in the interests of companies to relocate their production to countries where there are fewer low-wage workers and where low social and environmental standards are applied.
and many producing regions are suffering the consequences of economic restructuring processes, making it difficult for the sector to be sustainable.
european production is forced to compete with those of countries which artificially devalue their currency, do not respect the rules of environmental protection or bear the costs of it, frequently violate intellectual property rights and, what is even more serious, in the social and labour field, in addition to having much lower wage costs, do not apply measures for the protection of workers as strict as the european ones.
the resolution adopted today by the european parliament expresses solidarity with the victims of the shipwrecks in the kerch strait - that is, the black sea and the sea of azov - which have caused an environmental catastrophe.
the environmental impact of the oil spill in this strait was aggravated by the rapid dispersal of pollution due to strong winds and rippling that occurred.
we believe that the implementation of measures to reduce environmental risks and to improve maritime safety is necessary, and that any initiative taken at eu level in this context should be based on enhanced cooperation between member states and should not undermine their competences in this area.