the 'energy' file is a challenge that can only be overcome if it is tackled by all member states together.
second, social services are, by definition, based on non-discriminatory access, sustainability of service and protection of the vulnerable.
mr president, energy security and coping with climate change are the two most dramatic challenges of our time.
a common energy market requires the communitarisation of energy policy, which should include, or be associated with, a joint effort for technological development, as well as coordinated investment, employment and growth policies.
the political will expressed this spring will be neither sustainable nor effective without a european legal basis.
a common policy also requires a special budget, and one has to secure the means to finance that budget, possibly by taxing certain energy transactions and by creating european union financial own-resources.
the shaping of the european union’s enlargement, neighbourhood and development strategies should follow the measure and the manner in which our foreign partners – neighbours or not – cooperate in the promotion of european energy and environmental strategies.
on the other hand, the bilateral agreements between the european union member states and third states in the field of energy should be conceived in such a way as to work in favour of the enhancement of our common energy strategy.
madam president, whenever we find a just, feasible and sustainable solution to overcome a crisis, we want it to become a precedent.
secondly, and very importantly, attention should be paid to the prevention of risks in agriculture, risks which are lately major from the point of view of climate, natural disasters and even market dysfunctions.
the emergence and intensification of issues such as energy and the environment in the internal life of the european union require a rethinking of strategies to strengthen its role as a superpower in promoting the interests of the citizens of the member states.
number four: the european union is not a defensive alliance, but we must create the political environment which could engage russia and the united states in promoting a global partnership for defence against the contemporary threats, thus rejecting any bilateral anti-missile arrangements which will divide us and expose us more than defend us.
under the pretext of protecting the environment or protecting jobs, some european union governments have imposed a discriminatory first-time registration tax on imports of used cars.
the development of maritime transport must be done with respect for the environment and, in this context, maritime safety is essential.
there is no global problem, from the middle east and the balkans to energy and climate change, which could not be solved if the european union and the united states acted together.
the creation of a genuine democratic space at our external border and the irreversibility of this process is one of the conditions for ensuring stability and sustainable development in neighbouring countries.
as the impact studies of various intergovernmental and international environmental organizations show, the consequences of the canal are not just individual or bilateral (i am talking about the ecological, economic and cultural damage caused to our country).
however, the effects are both european and global, and this is because we are talking about negative ecological consequences, which undermine the principles that define the concept of sustainable development.
if we are to see a decrease in the rate of destruction of biodiversity in europe by 2010, it is imperative that economic interests are balanced with the protection of biodiversity.
in the interaction between man and the environment, nature should not be sacrificed, because some losses are irreversible.
this confrontation has consumed a lot of energy, and the current government has sacrificed the elections for the european parliament to make room for this referendum.
in this respect, it should be noted that romania, through its post-accession strategy, does not encourage relocation, as in many cases this leads to major imbalances in terms of environmental protection, the development of energy-intensive industries and the use of low-skilled labour.
we regret the reduction in the budget for the european transport and energy networks for the period 2007-2013 from eur 20 billion to eur 8 billion, which, although double the budget for the period 2000-2006, represents only 1.3% of the financing requirement of eur 600 billion by 2020. this is why the regulation encourages the use of public-private partnerships and introduces new financing instruments such as loan guarantees, european loans and an interest-rate subsidy fund.
the extension of the trans-european transport and energy network to include the european union's neighbouring countries in the internal transport market is part of the european union's neighbourhood policy and contributes to the achievement of synergy in the black sea.
it is important that the new member states receive the necessary support from the european commission to quickly master the procedures necessary to participate in the development of the trans-european transport and energy networks.
in this context, the development of bilateral and multilateral partnerships will facilitate...
although the committee on industry, research and energy initially approved a lower ceiling for roaming calls, the agreed solution, which reduces charges for calls made from 49 euro cents to 43 euro cents and for calls received from 24 euro cents to 19 euro cents over three years, will reduce the bills of almost 150 million roaming users by more than 60%, and is a major step forward.
globalisation, wrong-headed policies, massive business relocation and relocation outside the eu are the main factors affecting the labour market and social relations in the context of the sustainable development strategy.
i 'm not ...
mr president, i should like to say to the prime minister that the constitutional treaty is not about losing identity but about organising solidarity in a just, effective and sustainable way.
however, a social europe is not sustainable without a harmonised tax policy and european union funds.
we need to make this growth sustainable.
eco-innovation and energy efficiency are areas in particular where european innovative solutions can gain ground on the world market, increase our international competitiveness and thus create growth and jobs.
however, i believe that these objectives must be accompanied by the fact that a change of perspective or programme, however judiciously designed, will not produce results unless an environment of stability is ensured which gives the political will necessary for their practical implementation.
corruption must be tackled with as much energy as we bring to the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
to be truly solidarity-oriented towards sustainable development, cooperation, enlargement and cohesion, we need strong and effective institutions to guarantee our functioning, we need a common security and defence policy, a common foreign policy.
- next week, on 29 june, the ministerial meeting of the energy community treaty in south-east europe will take place in montenegro, in potgoritza.
this country is an important partner for the union in the energy field and, as such, the opening of negotiations on its accession to the treaty is welcome.
at the same time, however, accession to the treaty must mean greater responsibility for the country's compliance with international commitments, including environmental protection.
ukraine has not yet fulfilled a number of international commitments, some of which are mentioned in chapter 3 of the energy community treaty.
for this reason, i call on the european commission to give due weight to the issue of environmental protection in the negotiations for ukraine's accession to the treaty; to deal responsibly with these issues and to ensure that ukraine immediately implements all the provisions of chapter 3 of the treaty.
the energy issue must be addressed in the context of the black sea, but also separately from it.
and to put the region in context, i think that diversifying energy sources must remain a priority for the european union.
he is the one who can take some of the responsibilities of child rearing and care off the shoulders of families and parents; make arrangements for student parents to have accommodations adapted to their needs; propose, in association with educational institutions, more flexible arrangements for study; facilitate, with credit institutions, loans for those who are raising families and pursuing some form of education; provide scholarships; exempt student parents from paying certain taxes and duties - that is, in a country the government can create an environment that encourages young people not to choose one or the other option.
mr president, at first sight the digital environment looks like being a model of a world without boundaries, like a kind of theoretical perfect common market where everyone can provide goods, information services, communication and entertainment, and everyone is able to buy all these things.
commissioner, we look forward to having a european charter of users’ rights and obligations in order to be able to support an inclusive society in a digital environment.
e-government services increase and build on the trust of users in the digital environment, whether citizens, employees of public institutions or companies.
so it requires significant investment and a priority to ensure the security of the digital environment.
training citizens and, in particular, helping them to secure their home pc and internet connection will increase users' confidence in the digital environment.
as a result of climate change, european farmers are increasingly faced with droughts and floods.
i would like to welcome the decision of the ministerial conference of the south east european energy community treaty in montenegro on 29 june to open negotiations on the accession of moldova and ukraine to the south east european energy community.
the accession of moldova to this treaty means the adoption of community legislation in the field of energy and the environment; it means integration into the european electricity and natural gas market; it means a european perspective for this country; it means in fact a great step forward towards the european union.
due to ukraine's approach to environmental issues, including the basra canal issue and the situation with nuclear safety standards, it is possible that ukraine's accession will be delayed.
i would like to stress a few things: firstly, i believe that in order to have a competitive internal energy market, we need to introduce a complete separation of ownership between energy distribution and energy production.
as has been said today, this would lead to greater transparency, stimulate investment in distribution infrastructure and, i believe, ultimately help to generate affordable energy for consumers.
last but not least, i would like to stress the need to maintain public support for market liberalisation measures and, in this context, i believe that the european parliament, the european commission and even the public authorities in the member states must jointly step up their efforts to raise awareness of the opportunities arising from the full liberalisation of the european electricity and gas market, and at the same time to ensure that the rights of energy consumers, individuals or companies, are protected.
we cannot consider the liberalisation of the energy market to be completed until we have succeeded in creating a fully transparent and efficient market in which consumers can freely and in full knowledge of the facts choose the most advantageous supply of energy.
the energy market is the key element of european energy policy.
in this connection, i would like to welcome the adoption on friday by the european commission of principles for a future energy consumer charter.
it is an important step towards rebalancing the balance of power between consumers and energy suppliers.
maritime transport networks, regional environmental policies and energy transport channels are also included in the action plans of both policies.
the development of a maritime policy must take account of the specificities of each area, such as the problem of traffic of all kinds and the optimisation of the transit of energy products in the case of the black sea or the phenomenon of migration in the case of the mediterranean sea.
let me state clearly that the aim of our work on maritime policy is to unlock the potential that exists in the sustainable use of our oceans and seas.
i shall refer to some issues relating to the specific situation in the black sea, the external border of the union, namely: after the fall of the communist regime in romania, the development of tourism on the western coast of the black sea has led to a worrying increase in pollution of the sea waters due to the countless restaurants that are open right on the beach, restaurants that dump waste of all kinds into the sea; at the same time the beach has become very narrow because of these establishments.
pollution of the black sea is also largely due to the unreasonable exploitation of the danube delta - europe's second largest river after the volga.
last but not least, i think it is essential to include the solidarity clause in the energy field.
it will provide the legislative framework on which the european union can better protect its interests and strengthen energy independence.
the cause, obviously, we all know, but perhaps we're still doing far too little to mitigate its effects: global warming.
warming and pollution are two processes that reinforce each other.
rising temperatures are causing pollution to increase, and rising pollution is raising temperatures.
romanian cities, in general, have a pollution level three times higher than those in europe.
as a result of global warming, romania will join spain, greece and italy as the countries that will feel the most severe weather changes in 2015. ten counties in southern romania will become arid in the next twenty years and many plant crops here will disappear.
every european official has a duty to bring into the debate where they have been elected what can be done to combat the effects of global warming.
mr president, ukraine is a rich country, a huge market, a dynamic society formed by a large number of citizens, an impressive source of natural richness and a major transit route for energy and basic goods.
with the highest density of gas and oil pipelines in europe, ukraine is an important player for the european union's energy security.
for romania, the enhanced agreement is extremely important and we ask for assurances that the development of ukraine's river transport infrastructure will be done with the protection of the biodiversity of the danube delta.
now we are upgrading that help and focusing on strengthening good governance, democratic development, regulatory and legal approximation, infrastructure, development, in particular in the field of energy, and modern management, including readmission-related issues.
the black sea region plays an important role for the european union's energy security and for the expansion of the internal transport market to the european union's neighbouring states.
i hope that the european union will include provisions of the community's maritime policy, such as the protection of the environment and biodiversity of coastal and delta or estuary areas, in its neighbourhood policy and in the bilateral agreements it signs with third countries.
in this context, i mention the particular importance of protecting the biodiversity of the danube delta.
given that transport contributes between 15% and 30% of co2 emissions, the development of less polluting modes of transport must be a priority at european level.
in addition, 70% of the priority transeuropean transport projects are for rail and shipping, minus greenhouse gas generators.
but we must not forget that one of the causes of climate change is pollution from transport.
i congratulate slovenia on joining the euro area as from 1 january 2007. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of a global financial crisis.
mr president, this summer europe has had a tragic experience because of the natural disaster in greece: loss of human life and loss of thousands of hectares of forest, which will have a very negative ecological and economic impact.
it is very clear that a common approach by member states to climate change is needed.
the commission on climate change needs to reach clear conclusions on the causes and the measures needed to eliminate them as soon as possible.
we need health and education, we need a sustainable social protection system.
transport, energy and communications are essential for the union's economic development, but access to these services must be ensured for all.
e-government and the development of financial services are essential for the transparency and quality of public services and must also ensure consumer protection in the digital environment.
mr president, commissioner, the member states must ensure a favourable climate for the development of freight transport logistics and remove bottlenecks.
mr president, this dossier is welcome because logistics is the key to economic development, and transport and mobility are the engines of sustainable development and must respond to the imperative challenges of the moment, namely the need to decongest traffic and combat climate change.
between the need for sustainable economic development and the need to reduce pollution, logistics, planning, the exchange of good practice and effective cooperation between all the actors involved - authorities, producers, transporters, beneficiaries - are the only viable solutions.
the union's population is ageing and increasing labour productivity is necessary to ensure the sustainability of social protection systems.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, global warming is a threat whose long-term effects are devastating.
the effects of global warming have become increasingly visible for romania in dobrogea, the southern plain or the western sands.
as a result of global warming, romania will be among the countries that will feel the most severe weather changes in 2015, along with spain, greece and italy.
if measures are not taken to eliminate the negative factors, desertification will become irreversible or will entail incalculable costs of ecological rebalancing.
at the same time, the implementation of the convention must be closely linked to efforts to limit climate change.
it's important to talk about them, but more important to let them speak to improve the political climate, the peace process and reduce corruption around the world.
so i am involved in the third energy package, which will be produced by the end of this month; i am also involved with the internal market review, and commissioner mccreevy and are co-authors on the financial services review.
unfortunately, this is not the case, as the political scene in romania is riven with endless disputes, a situation which, in my opinion, does not favour the climate of stability necessary for the normal conduct of elections.
mr president, my point is simple: as energy becomes the focal point in international politics and as efforts to create a single eu energy market are increasingly resisted by the existing national monopolies, the efforts of the same union to further integrate the foreign policies of its member states into a common foreign and security policy would be consequently undermined, because, on the import side, member states seek to continue to secure preferential deals with the major suppliers and, on the export side, they would attempt to extract maximum gain from unilateral policies.
the effects are already visible: in spite of the hard talk at union level, the truth is that, instead of reducing its current energy dependency, the eu is becoming more and more dependent on russian and/or russian-controlled energy supplies.
the eu needs an energy policy that allows economic and social development, but also ensures environmental protection through effective measures against climate change.
i consider the next five years to be crucial for planning and approving projects of 'european interest' for the ten-e, for diversifying energy supply sources and for increasing energy efficiency at community level.
to limit climate change, the eu has set a target of 20% of european energy consumption coming from renewable energy sources by 2020. thus, both the member states and the commission must inventory the sources of renewable energy on their territory and define action plans for their efficient use.
the structural funds and the european competitiveness and innovation fund, as well as the 7th research framework programme, can and should be used by member states for investment in energy technology.
it is important to help the region for economic development, for industrial development; its role in climate change will be extremely important and, therefore, we must support regional integration.
again, climate change is extremely important, and this region has an important role to play.
60% of them believe that congestion and pollution are practically at the level of cities and over 70% of them expect action at european level.
the iter project, as the honourable member knows, is a project which is an international flagship of the world fusion energy research programme.
beyond jet, iter extends the experimental side to the level where the scientific and technological feasibility of fusion energy can be demonstrated.
in the european union, a joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established by the council decision of 27 march 2007. its role is to prepare and coordinate activities for the construction of the demonstration fusion reactor and related facilities.
iter consists of long-term international partnerships and commitments, bringing together partners that represent over half of the world’s population to address issues central to our common future, the development of sustainable, non-polluting sources of energy at the service of humanity.
something like eur 28 million from fp5 and fp6 has been dedicated to projects expressly focused on environmental and health aspects of nanotechnologies, and such research is planned to increase significantly in framework programme 7 too, both in size and in scope.
the commission is performing an assessment of regulatory aspects in relation to health, safety and environmental aspects of nanotechnology-based products.
i hope that this institute will do more work on climate change, the information society and nanotechnology.
first, a smaller point, which was raised by some colleagues from the verts/ale group: according to mr hammerstein, climate change was dropped.
in the proposal as it stands now, there is, inter alia, a field of renewable energy and climate change.
i think that is all i could, or wanted to, raise as points in my response, but thank you very much for a very positive and constructive climate here in this plenary.
energy today is strategic for the european union, as coal and steel were decades ago.
yes, the european union needs a common european foreign policy in energy.
firstly, how could one have a common external energy policy without a common internal energy policy?
we need a common agency for technological development in this field; we need a european budget funded in an appropriate way and from appropriate sources; we need a coherent strategy for the energy production; we need an integrated network of energy transportation, compatible systems of distribution and a european union policy to balance consumption and production.
we need a truly free internal energy market.
secondly, how could one have a common foreign policy on energy without a general common foreign policy?
unfortunately, russia perceives any common european strategy on energy as being directed against its interests.
how can we figure out a convincing win-win strategy on energy in our relations with russia?
ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his hard work and his openness in dealing with the many aspects of a common european energy policy.
in recent years we have witnessed several energy crises that have affected the european union.
the objectives of ensuring a stable energy supply and a transparent market have become an unquestionable priority for the european union.
in this context, the black sea region is an important key to securing the european energy sector through diversification of energy sources and transit networks, and the european initiative to strengthen regional cooperation in the black sea by creating synergies should be used to the maximum extent in this direction.
equally important are the objectives of strengthening the network of energy coordinators and implementing the energy community treaty.
i hope that these initiatives will be followed by even more decisive steps towards the establishment of a common energy policy, steps which will bring value to the black sea region and lay the foundations for a dialogue with external partners based on reciprocity and mutual trust, common values and, of course, respect for international obligations.
european energy policy has so far focused on creating, stabilising and regulating the internal market, a trend also visible in the european commission's latest energy package.
it was considered that the liberalisation of the internal market would make the eu a major player on the international energy scene, but it was found that the union actually lacks an external and homogeneous dimension of energy policy.
the new reality, in which competition and liberalisation are interlinked with climate change and resource security, generates not only external challenges (the fear of energy dependence on a single supplier, which uses its position as a political weapon), but also an important internal challenge, which tests the ability of member states to put their national interest in secondary order in order to create the conditions for the development of a common and coherent energy policy.
this ensures the convergent development of the member states and their neighbours and encourages regional and interregional cooperation, which is essential to make the european external energy policy more effective.
the enlargement of the european energy community to the east would stimulate the final liberalisation of energy markets, providing a common advantage in view of a possible future enlargement of the european union.
i would also like the delta and estuary areas to be protected and to be part of the common maritime policy; and i would also like measures to combat marine pollution to be extended to inland waters that empty into seas and oceans and, not least, to the industrialized areas on the coasts.
reports from the world health organization show that in most cases, counterfeit cigarettes contain 75 percent more tar, 28 percent more nicotine, and 63 percent more carbon monoxide.
unfortunately, the major airports are crowded, there are many flights that depart late, there is waiting time both on the ground and in the air, which on the one hand contributes to pollution, and on the other hand has certain social effects.
this is why it is very important to coordinate national and cross-border initiatives to optimise existing capacities, improve the framework for the construction of new airport infrastructure, develop new technical solutions, promote co-modality by interconnecting different modes of transport and achieve safe transport by respecting all provisions related to safety and environmental protection.
the expansion of airport capacity is welcome and must be combined with sound regulations to reduce noise and reduce aircraft emissions.
in the context of global warming, cyanide is changing the temperature and precipitation patterns, causing floods and landslides.
the gross energy production in the european union is based on different energy sources: 31% nuclear energy, 29% coal, 19% gas, 14% renewable energy sources and 5% oil.
romania produces 13.5% of its energy from oil, also 15.3% from coal and coke and 5.9% is hydro and nuclear-electric power.
as regards nuclear energy, it is essential to ensure its safety and, in particular, the proper treatment of waste.
the fourth generation of nuclear generators will allow better management of nuclear waste and a reduction in its quantity.
a very important element for environmental protection must, however, be the treatment of the water used to cool the reactors.
therefore, investments in safety and radioactive waste treatment must be a priority for nuclear-powered states.
the black sea region is of great importance for the diversification of the european union's energy supply sources.
as long as coal is a source of energy, it is important that the necessary investments are made to ensure safety at work.
this is how we will be able to build genuine sustainable development throughout the eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that, first of all, as you know, the council recalls that the conclusions of the european council in the spring of 2007 deal with the community's energy policy in a comprehensive way, including in particular the internal market, gas and electricity.
the council stresses that these european council conclusions have been a contribution to the european commission's third energy package, presented in september 2007, which aims to further open up the internal gas and electricity market.
mr president, mr president-in-office, the council adopted a number of measures at the last european council in march on energy issues.
at the same time, civil society groups are drawing attention to the serious environmental consequences of the frequent transport of european parliamentarians and officials from one city to another for the conduct of european legislative work.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
we have tried to strike the right balance between the measures needed to protect the environment on the one hand and the measures needed to ensure the competitiveness of the european aviation industry and to establish equal treatment for all air operators in the european union on the other.
i am pleased to note in mr liese's report proposals also made by the committee on industry, in particular those concerning the simultaneous inclusion in the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme of all flights arriving in and departing from the community and ensuring market access for newly established aircraft operators.
the inclusion of aviation in the european emissions trading scheme is a positive step, underlining europe's pioneering role in combating climate change.
emissions reductions can be achieved by manufacturing new engine designs that deliver greater fuel efficiency, by improving aircraft aerodynamics, by using new metal alloys and composite materials for the construction of fuselages.
all these measures will contribute to the restoration of a democratic climate conducive to the resumption of debate and negotiations on a viable solution to the sensitive situation in georgia.
at the same time, georgia has become a strategic partner in the neighbourhood policy, indispensable in resolving frozen conflicts in the area, a good mediator, an important partner in regional cooperation and a strategic ally in energy and transport cooperation projects.
the resolution on limiting climate change to 2 degrees celsius is a very important document for our future and that is why i voted for it.
climate change is a major challenge with catastrophic consequences for the environment and human communities.
climate change is already having a devastating effect on agriculture, water systems, forests, fauna and flora.
the eu must reaffirm its leadership in mitigating climate change.
we must leave it to each member state to define its own energy mix to secure its energy resources.
at the same time, member states producing nuclear energy must ensure the safety of these installations and, in particular, proper waste management.
research funding leading to less waste and more secure facilities is needed.
i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the prime minister on regaining for spain the right level of representation in this house, in this parliament, with effect from 2009. i think that the message of spain is clear to us, and we share this message: europe will be either social or not at all; europe will be either a global player or not at all; europe will either be able to combine solidarity with subsidiarity or it will fail; europe will either be able to offer a model of sustainable growth or it will vanish; europe will either able to offer a solution in favour of social inclusiveness, gender equality and popular empowerment or it will fall apart; europe will be able to associate multiculturalism with civic cohesion, free competition with generosity, efficiency with justice and flexibility with security, or it will become meaningless.
mr president, climate change is one of the most complex problems facing the international community.
the common objective is to establish a roadmap for reducing climate change beyond 2012. we can respond to the challenges of climate change by developing scientific research, adapting to climate change, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, developing and implementing a global energy strategy.
in the context of the bali conference, the union must take a leading role in the fight against climate change.
the measures that the union has already taken in certain areas such as aviation, the promotion of cleaner vehicles, the quality of fuels, the quality of air, will not only have an impact on the fight against climate change, but also give an impetus to economic development.
a key element of the european maritime strategy is to recognise the negative effects of human activity on the ecosystem and to increase efforts to counter these effects.
human development and tourism along the coasts have a major impact on the marine environment through increased fishing, shipping and leisure tourism.
climate change, waste, fishing, acoustic, biological and chemical factors threaten marine waters and this directive is an important step towards improving the integrity of ecosystems and conserving biodiversity.
the oil and sulphur pollution of the black sea and the sea of azov, which was recently caused by a storm and which led to the sinking of several commercial ships, will affect us for at least 10 years.
the disaster was caused by a system failure, as the vessels were intended for river navigation and not maritime, which highlights the lack of efforts to prevent and protect the marine environment.
this serious accident makes it difficult to improve the ecological condition of these waters, already ranked among the most polluted marine areas in the world.
the degradation of the black sea waters affects both public health and marine biodiversity, and considerable efforts are needed to restore the integrity of the ecosystem.
this directive will ensure that the eu's marine environment is better protected and that human activities and transport do not affect water quality and biodiversity.
urban traffic generates 40% of carbon dioxide emissions and 70% of other pollutant emissions from motor vehicles, and road congestion, concentrated mainly in metropolitan areas, costs the european union about 1% of gdp.
in many european capitals, traffic congestion and pollution are serious problems for the inhabitants.
over 66% of european citizens consider urban congestion and pollution to be problems that seriously affect their quality of life and call for the union to act in a coherent and particularly firm manner.
at the european council of 8 and 9 march 2007, the european union made a firm commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% below 1990 levels by 2020. the union and the member states must concentrate their actions on metropolitan and urban areas, but the issue of air quality in urban areas must be tackled more ambitiously, respecting the principle of subsidiarity, and applying a strategy of cooperation and coordination at european level.
the green paper on urban mobility promotes the development of public passenger transport, but also addresses measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from road transport.
as regards amendment no 31, i would point out that some measures in the field of mandatory technical standards to reduce pollution from land vehicles and inland waterway vessels have already been dealt with in other legislative acts.
a sensitive point of the directive is the financing of adjustment measures to the targets set by the member states by 2010 and 2015. as a first step, a considerable financial effort will be required to set up air pollution sampling and measurement centres.
the structural funds already allocated to the eligible member states for environmental policy will also be available for the achievement of the objectives described in the directive, but this will reduce the amounts originally estimated.
at the same time, they support the inclusion of a flexibility clause allowing member states a transitional period of up to two years, provided they can demonstrate that they have made considerable efforts to achieve air pollution reduction targets.
in fact, i have asked the commission to present, by june 2008 at the latest, after considering all options, including costs related to environmental protection, noise, traffic congestion and health, a general applicable, transparent and comprehensive model for the assessment of all external costs, which would define and serve as a basis for the subsequent calculation of infrastructure charges.
on the basis of the interim results obtained in developing this model, the commission should indicate whether overall environmental costs, such as climate change costs and recently published health costs, are analysed in the interim report and whether they will be considered as a substantial factor in the subsequent assessment and calculations.
in fact, there is a discussion about including so-called external costs, such as environmental costs, in the road tax.
many member states are against including these costs in the toll because they believe that there is no sustainable model for this calculation, but other member states believe that these taxes will bring in revenue and that this will create the funds needed for infrastructure development.
i believe that this proposal which the european commission has to come up with will also help to improve transport efficiency and, in particular, the efficient use of the different modes of transport and of course contribute in general to the sustainable development of transport.24.1% of greenhouse gas emissions in the 27 member states come from or are due to the transport sector.
so it's important, however, to know whether environmental costs like climate change will be part of this proposal.
our agricultural model implies high standards in the social, environmental and food quality fields.
this also implies that some costs are borne by farmers, but it must be mentioned that environmental protection must also be taken into account.
the treaty also gives the union the power to promote the fight against climate change at international level and guarantees adequate social protection for all its citizens.
the populists disguised as democrats who, by weakening the democratic institutions and relativising the democratic principle, create the most favourable environment for extremists?
the european agency for fundamental rights will also play an important role in preventing racism and xenophobia, ensuring a climate of security in the union.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy of the european parliament on the commission communication on black sea synergy, i called for the union to become a leader in promoting the principles of the common maritime policy and in developing maritime transport routes in this region.
from 2007, the agency will support member states through assistance in capacity building in the prevention and control of marine pollution by toxic substances.
mr president, the incident in november caused ecological damage to both the black sea and the sea of azov, demonstrating that marine waters have no borders and that oil spills from accidents outside the european area can also affect the coastal ecosystems of the member states.
the sunken ships that led to the pollution of the black sea were intended for river navigation, not maritime, resulting in tons of oil being spilled into the sea and affecting natural marine habitats.
over 15,000 birds and dolphins were covered in scabbard dust, and several rare species of flora and fauna on the coast and on the black sea floor were destroyed, requiring considerable efforts to restore the integrity of the black sea ecosystem.
the degradation of aquatic life is fraught with negative consequences, as it affects ecological security and the quality of life and health of the population.
the acute decline in the black sea's biodiversity is a cause for concern because of continued ecosystem degradation, illegal fishing and overexploitation of natural resources, and oil spills are contributing to the environmental degradation of this area, considered the most polluted in the world.
the eu's heads of state or government have committed themselves to halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010, and these objectives must also be respected in the context of the marine sector.
moreover, the new green paper on market instruments for environmental policy aims to improve the implementation of the 'polluter pays' principle and hopes to have a positive influence on the methods of preventing such environmental disasters.
the black sea region is of major importance from the point of view of the european union's energy and transport policy.
but this requires us to develop a comprehensive and coherent strategy for the whole region, one that would aim at ensuring security, sustainable development and a deep integration of environmental protection issues.