just as in the energy sector we are separating transmission networks from media suppliers, so in rail transport it is necessary to complete the reform of those state railways which still bring together transport operators and infrastructure operators under one organisation.
the fact that road transport is very successful even where rail is more suitable for environmental reasons is due to the lack of harmonisation, external costs, incomplete interoperability, lack of transformation, but also to the lack of quality of rail transport.
i think there's a good principle here, too: if i want to change something, i start by trying to change my environment.
the year of equal opportunities creates the right environment for this, in my view.
in dealing with a major issue such as climate change, we need to find more understanding in the european parliament for better communication and a more unified approach in finding appropriate strategic solutions.
i think that the envi initiative could certainly have been consulted in advance by the itre committee, particularly in relation to the european commission's energy package.
but we all know it's time to act, because the climate change situation is really serious.
i will not name the areas of energy where it is really possible to significantly improve the co2 emissions situation.
however, the expected economic development will bring new visions in the field of increased energy demand.
the construction of new energy capacity must be based on carbon-free technologies.
it is difficult to understand, then, that nuclear energy, which practically emits no co2, continues to be misunderstood and only vaguely defined in the strategies of the european commission and the european union in general, with only reference to the free decisions of the member states.
this means that the allocation for 183 sources, including the reserve for new sources, may not exceed 30,9 million tonnes of carbon dioxide.
slovakia is emitting less carbon dioxide than required by the kyoto protocol.
i also know how much time and energy a woman devotes to her family and children.
i would also like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs for a very important legislative document which aims to simplify the current legal framework for waste management.
it should also be noted that the most frequent subject of litigation before the european court of justice is environmental legislation, and waste management constitutes a substantial part of it.
on the other hand, the framework directive is so important to the union that it is necessary to insist on the co-decision procedure for all the articles it mentions, namely articles 5, 11 and 21. it is desirable to reclassify incineration plants for the recovery of waste from today's disposal.
we are well aware that the waste management sector is the attraction for many of the highly profitable but illegal trade.
however, i have reservations about amendment no 70, which amends article 30 of the directive, which seeks to abolish specific qualitative and, above all, quantitative indicators in the waste management programmes of the member states.
if we really want to achieve waste reduction, we cannot do it without quantitative indicators.
reducing the quantity does not automatically mean that the most hazardous waste will be eliminated.
waste management programmes must also include quantitative indicators, otherwise these programmes will be unambitious.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
two days before the european commission formally adopted the strategic energy outlook and other energy-related reports in january 2007, the eurobarometer survey on energy issues was published.
the survey clearly demonstrates that energy issues, even in relation to the issue of climate change and future energy shortages, are not a priority for the citizens of the european union.
energy issues ranked as high as 12th in the ranking of the most serious issues facing europe today.
it is also alarming that european citizens believe that the core of energy problems lies in continents and countries other than the european union.
almost a quarter of european citizens admitted that they are doing nothing to reduce their energy consumption.
citizens have little idea that energy prices will rise in the long run.
if we are on the threshold of a new industrial revolution, linked to solving the energy problems, but also the problems associated with climate change, then we have a pragmatic goal, but with an absolutely political content.
the lisbon strategy is intended, in particular, to create the conditions for strengthening the internal competitive environment of each member state.
implementation of innovation programmes must therefore go directly to the regional level, where they create a sufficient competitive environment for local smes.
only in this way can we sustain, motivate, develop and exploit the knowledge potential in our regions for the sake of long-term sustainable economic development.
the eu wine sector produces the best wine in the world and has huge potential which must be further developed in a sustainable way.
however, i strongly reject some of the solutions in the commission's communication of 22 june 2006. a plan for the indiscriminate culling of vineyards, which poses a threat to the environment in particular, is considered to be an unjustified attack on europe's wine heritage.
i supported the amended text of the resolution, as i regard the safeguarding of the competitiveness of the internal market and the implementation of a strategic innovation policy with a focus on energy efficiency as a clear and timely answer to the question of how to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
following the uproar caused by the commission's communication on a sustainable european wine sector, in particular the decision to grub up 400 000 ha of vineyards, it was necessary for the european parliament to propose in this report how it envisaged future reform of the wine sector.
it would be a real shame to waste more time and declare in 2010 that the objectives were set illusory and unattainable, because there is no excuse for lack of preparation and in this case time is of the essence.
i believe that the european parliament, through this report, will also contribute to the creation of a sustainable european social model.
even in the 2020 scenario, the new member states are expected to continue to be the raw material base for animal feed and biomass for energy.
since the beginning of 2006, the european parliament has been working hard on this proposal with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on legal affairs.
there is a broad consensus within parliament that the report by the committee on the environment, as presented for the vote in this house, is excellent.
therefore, i should like to urge all my colleagues to support the responsible report by the committee on the environment in the vote on wednesday.
european cohesion policy is a driving force for sustainable and balanced development, particularly in less developed regions.
i can agree with all the points in her report on the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources.
we have to realize that we have a global water crisis, especially drinking water, global warming, endangered biodiversity, where europe's ecological footprint has doubled its biological capacity, and people die every year from diseases caused by environmental pollution.
it is necessary to reduce or stop subsidising activities that have a negative impact on the environment, especially in agriculture.
if we are to achieve a reduction in our dependence on natural resources, i agree that by 2012 12% of the energy in the european union must come from renewable sources and that by 2008 concrete policies and actions must be developed for the 20 most important materials with the greatest impact.
i believe that the problem of adequate housing for young people is particularly acute in the new member states and that the cohesive policy adopted to renovate social housing in order to save energy and protect the environment is an important but insufficient contribution of the european union to tackling this situation.
the patient wants to be treated in an environment where he has loved ones and where he understands the language of the country.
the report we are discussing today is very much in line with the report i am rapporteur for, namely the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides.
the level of pollution of european waters by pesticides and other chemicals is very serious.
i therefore welcome the introduction of environmental quality standards that will be binding on all 27 eu countries.
my report focuses, among other things, on the protection of the aquatic environment.
the slovak republic uses only about 25% of its structural funds resources for environmental purposes.
in slovakia, we have a sad experience, as in the neighbouring czech republic, with the massive pollution of water, including groundwater, by the soviet occupation troops, who occupied our country for 21 long years.
i am thinking of the promotion of a competitive environment and also the flexibility of initiatives that should be the driving force behind the development of innovation in firms, clusters, technology and development centres and so on.
we therefore need to create mechanisms at local, regional, national or international level to allow the creation of natural knowledge clusters for the application of knowledge through a r&d and business environment with a flexible structure that allows them to both cooperate and compete with each other.
one example of potential lead markets where the european union can gain global leadership is the smart textile industry, environmental technologies or the electronic health card.
the enlarged eu needs the tools and means to enable it to function effectively, to strengthen its role in the world and to address the concerns of its citizens, against the backdrop of the challenges posed by, inter alia, globalisation, climate change, energy security and an ageing population.
it is the rainwater that once cooled the country and kept its climate stable.
the radiant heat from the dry land, which heats up very quickly, pushes the clouds into the cooler mountain environment, where they pour in extreme intensity and cause flooding.
colleagues, as a member of the interim committee on climate change, i will be pushing for solutions that can retain rainwater in the arid regions of all continents.
i believe this is one of the ways that we can contribute in a cheaper, more effective and less conflictual way to combat climate change.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i am aware that improving the safety, hygiene and health protection of workers is the objective of removing asbestos and all asbestos-containing substances, which present a high risk to the health of citizens as they present a carcinogenic risk, from the working environment of citizens.
the new directive clarifies how to meet environmental and social requirements.
since it is a very toxic substance, especially for children, we must be concerned not only about protection during the manufacturing process and, if necessary, the use of products containing mercury, but also about storage and, in particular, the handling of waste containing mercury.
we should be aware of this not only from the point of view of environmental protection and conservation, but also of the fact that this mercury can be returned to us as residues in food or through polluted rivers, not to mention the risk of contamination of local workers and residents.
the surplus mercury must be disposed of in an environmentally friendly manner in accordance with the directive on hazardous waste which we have already adopted.
i agree with the rapporteur that those producers who produce mercury in their production should also be responsible for its safe storage or environmental disposal.
in helping developing countries, we too should do more to help implement these technologies where the environment is now devastated by this dangerous chemical.
i currently live in a border region on the slovak-polish border, and therefore i can understand that climate disasters in peripheral areas have consequences not only for farmers, but also indirectly increase unemployment and lead to even greater regional inequalities.
i believe that if the amalgam waste in dental clinics is properly separated and stored in a suitable, safe and durable way, as proposed in the report under discussion, there is no need to eliminate amalgam as a filler at this stage.
the role of the family as an educational environment is not limited to the first years of a child's life but continues after independence, i.e.
i believe that reducing juvenile delinquency in society is only possible if we can create such a sustainable environment in which each family can consolidate its responsible role in society.
it responds to the dynamically evolving digital environment.
many obstacles make it more difficult to use an online environment than to do the same activity offline.
it wants to respond and take steps to make online commerce more attractive and to stop the fragmentation of the internal market in the digital environment.
i would like to start by highlighting the work of the rapporteur, mrs roith, who has given us a very coherent and up-to-date report on consumer confidence in the digital environment.
youth crime certainly has multifactorial causes, such as socioeconomic conditions, the environment in which youths move, family and school, the environment of gangs, the choice of inappropriate friends, and early use of alcohol and all kinds of drugs.
until now, these funds have mostly been used for environmental projects or infrastructure construction, and only a small percentage of citizens knew that they could also finance the modernization of hospitals, the purchase of equipment and the training of health workers.
i would like to mention some aspects that could contribute to the early completion of an efficient single energy market in the european union.
the ownership unbundling of the vertically integrated companies formally ensures the independence of the entities and the possibility for new players to access the energy networks.
it is therefore difficult to assume with certainty that this step will actually bring about a strengthening of competition and a sufficient pressure on energy prices.
the need to link national energy markets is likely to remain the same problem, as national interests will continue to prevail.
i would therefore like to recommend that the commission should also take up other proposals which are more capable of addressing the situation in a more comprehensive way and which would be much more effective in completing the liberalisation of the single energy market.
the double pay mentioned for the new member states of the european union, the share of energy and raw material intensive production is higher in these countries than in the more advanced euro area countries.
however, a significant part of this energy- and raw-material-intensive production is destined for the euro area.
for these reasons, the new member states are more sensitive to movements in energy and raw material prices, but at the same time they create a buffer zone that cushions price impacts in euro area countries.
learning from the failure of lithuania, whose entry failed only in the inflation parameter, but also encouraged by slovenia's entry into the euro area on 1 january 2007, i believe that slovakia will take a responsible stance to ensure the sustainability of the maastricht criteria.
i agree with the rapporteur that the success of the single market rests on three pillars, namely the improvement of the position of consumers and the creation of a business-friendly environment, which is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises.
member states must create an enabling environment for active cooperation between business, the public sector and academia.
the dialogue must not be limited to questions of democracy or the protection of civil and political rights, but also to questions which directly concern the european union, such as environmental or health protection issues.
in view of the need to make consumer law more effective in the internal market, i welcome the commission's intention to review eight sectoral directives to respond to the challenges of technological progress, in particular to define precisely the rights and obligations in the online environment.
the current energy and climate change situation brings with it not only positive solutions but also hasty decisions that can ultimately have many negative consequences.
i am also thinking of renewable energy sources, which are essentially new solutions to complement the dwindling traditional energy sources and reduce harmful emissions.
it is no coincidence that the oecd study, as well as the warnings of many experts, shows that the unconsidered promotion of some renewable resources (such as biofuels, biomass and others) will cause irreparable damage in other areas, such as agriculture or water management, thus upsetting the overall natural balance in nature.
i don't mean that i'm against renewable energy.
the current knowledge and technical solutions allow us, and will continue to allow us, to use renewable resources only as a supplement.
nuclear energy is a good example.
energy security and energy are the axis around which the internal and external policies of each community revolve and are vital to the functioning of prosperity and, in critical shortages, to the survival of the species.
it is alarming that we allow energy to be used as a tool to exert political pressure on transit and destination countries.
the predictability of the energy market needs to be secured by contracts with china, india, brazil and also by a partnership with the us government.
black and white environmentalists should finally realise that burning 'green' fuels and biomass massively increases the build-up of co2 in the atmosphere and that a sensible, decisive share of nuclear energy is absolutely necessary.
tragically, the influence of the fanatical greens, who have pushed the ban on nuclear energy into the constitution of a member country, has had an impact on the economy, even in neighbouring countries.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment.
i voted in favour of the report by the rapporteur, anne e. jensen, on airport and ground handling capacity towards a more efficient policy, because i consider it very important in terms of ensuring the sustainable development of european regions.
the airport must appear in the regional development plans, be included in the development strategy, be subject to a feasibility study in relation to the area concerned, with a thorough environmental impact assessment.
the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides, as a non-legislative policy document accompanying the directive, responds to the continuing risk in the use of pesticides.
the aim of my report is to minimise the health and environmental hazards and risks arising from their use.
it is necessary to point out the link with climate change.
global warming will result in an increase in pests, and therefore it is not possible to increase the amount of pesticides used indefinitely.
it is necessary to extend the protection of the aquatic environment against pesticide pollution by establishing adequately wide buffer zones along watercourses.
i consider that some of the amendments tabled by the envi committee to the marketing regulation and the directive on the sustainable use of plant protection products are not applicable after my consultation with the experts.
this report presents the state of play of conventional energy sources and technologies, while also comprehensively highlighting the many aspects of their continued use, both in terms of securing energy supplies and the need to continually increase emissions.
given the world's ever-increasing energy demand, the european union cannot afford to completely eliminate fossil fuels, which, despite their rapid depletion, account for a significant share of total energy production.
despite the fact that the european union on average has a relatively high efficiency in the production of energy from these conventional sources, there are still many reservations in some member states in introducing and promoting new more efficient technologies and developing new more efficient cooperative units.
the other area i would like to highlight is nuclear energy, which, as we know, practically emits no co2 and which, i am sure, will sooner or later find its way into the member states, which have so far rejected it for ideological rather than pragmatic reasons.
in conclusion, let me express my appreciation for the commission's work in making a tangible shift towards a more open and objective view and assessment of the benefits of nuclear energy, which has also resulted in initiatives such as the european nuclear forum, whose first meeting will take place in bratislava in november this year, as already mentioned here.
without trade there is no long-term sustainable development.
i am in favour of a reasonable compromise to achieve a balance between health and environmental protection on the one hand and agricultural production on the other.
i congratulate her on her report, which, drawing on her rich experience in medical practice, presents a balanced strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides.
at stake is not only the state of the environment, and thus the health of eu citizens, but also the competitiveness of one of the important industrial sectors.
i supported the amendment which is a compromise between the two aspects of protecting the environment and at the same time offering appropriate and realistic conditions for the european automotive industry.
the unfavourable global energy situation, the european union's high dependence on imported energy sources and the increase in greenhouse gas emissions mean that, despite many ideological opponents, nuclear energy is receiving more attention in the eu and is already an integral part of the energy mix of many european countries.
here i fully agree with the rapporteur that the role of the supply agency should be better and more specifically defined in order to be in line with the provisions of the treaty and to take account of the objectives of the common policy on the security of supply of nuclear materials in the renewable energy context.
similar wording is also found in the thematic strategy of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in article 2. on the other hand, it must be recognised that the degradation of land as a non-renewable resource has serious consequences for other areas where legislation exists, such as water quality, food safety, climate change and so on.
whether the lisbon strategy, the instrument that is supposed to ensure this, is capable of providing solutions, particularly in the areas of innovation, energy, migration, education and demography.
new environmental challenges are emerging, including co2 emissions, pesticide use, concern for the cleanliness of drinking water supplies and sources, and the protection of soil and the groundwater.
rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, consulted for an opinion.
i definitely want to support the provision of reliable energy transit systems between ukraine and the eu.
i am a strong advocate not only of cooperation in agriculture and the environment, but i would like to put the greatest emphasis on cooperation in science and education, as well as on strengthening the knowledge economy.
it is energy, climate change, structural funds, cooperation in criminal law, intellectual property, etc.
tourism (hereinafter referred to as 'tr') with a view to sustainable integrated regional and local development has a significant impact on the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the eu27.
i see it as one of the tools to ensure the sustainable development of regions, with an emphasis on the protection of the natural and cultural heritage and its preservation for future generations.
only a good reform of the wine sector can preserve the best traditions of wine production in the eu, strengthen the social network and increase the attractiveness of rural areas, while protecting the environment.
sixth, we've reached agreement on some environmental issues and the hiring of handicapped people.
twelve vessels have sunk or been wrecked here during severe storms, with serious consequences, affecting lives and causing ecological disasters of great proportions.