for example, the participation of individuals in the fight against climate change has long been unheard of by the general public.
when they are convinced that this is good for their children, they can achieve great things in their particular environment.
the alde group welcomes the commission's fundamental approach to the revision of the envelope directive, which looks at waste as a potential source.
our aim is to take a balanced approach that takes into account both the consequences of the increase in the volume of waste, i.e.
its risks to the environment and human health, and the requirements of the growing market for new waste management technologies.
in terms of the hierarchy of waste management measures, we support in principle separate collection and recycling wherever it is economically and environmentally efficient.
we also support the effective management of residual waste that cannot be used or recycled.
we note that those countries that have been most successful in reducing dependence on landfills have achieved this goal through a combination of recycling, biological treatment of waste, such as composting, and the use of waste for energy production, provided that the specialised plants meet stringent emission criteria.
if they qualify, they should have the opportunity to be recognised as energy-producing installations, rather than being at the bottom of the waste hierarchy, equated with landfills.
the possibility of obtaining r1 status will encourage these plants to become energy efficient, which is also in line with the european plan to reduce co2 emissions by 20%.
in our amendment no 133 we propose a compromise which complements the commission's original formula with elements from the debate in the committee on the environment.
the introduction of such a mindset is a contribution to the sustainable nature of resources and raw materials.
it is an approach that sees waste not only as a harm and a risk to the environment, but also as a potential saving of natural resources.
in conclusion, let me say that in the field of waste management, much has been achieved in recent years, in fact, decades.
this has guided our group in particular in the preparation of the amendments to the definition of recycling and to the two directives on waste oils and hazardous waste which will expire.
delays in these processes leading to the determination of status could jeopardise the fragile situation and slow down positive processes that stabilise the region, foster economic and political cooperation between neighbours and link them together in their intention to advance the development of cooperation with other countries of the european union and shape their own environment after our own example.
the use of natural resources is vital both for the state of the environment and for our economic development.
the developments are indeed worrying, and the effects are felt in the form of continued loss of biodiversity, greenhouse gas emissions, degradation of water, air and soil quality, and significant economic costs.
the strategy offers a resource-based approach to environmental policy and a long-term framework for reducing the environmental impact of the use of natural resources in a developing economy.
secondly, in order to measure progress towards improving environmental protection and saving natural resources, the commission will seek to develop a new generation of indicators; many quantitative indicators relating to the use of natural resources have already been established, for example in the fields of energy and climate change.
the setting of strict air and water quality targets and waste recycling targets contributes to the objectives of the natural resources strategy.
we must take account of the environmental impact of natural resources from the seed to the sheath, that is from the cradle to the grave, so that the impact does not shift from one stage of the life cycle to another or to other countries.
in cooperation with the united nations environment programme, we are setting up an international commission on the sustainable use of natural resources, which will begin to assess the planetary impacts of resource use and propose measures.
the work programme of this new international commission already includes issues such as environmental conditions for biofuel production and the implementation of measures on a global scale to strengthen the recycling society.
if this committee can come close to the achievements of the international commission on climate change, we will have achieved a great deal of our objectives.
this strategy guides us in the long term towards the sustainable use of natural resources and can serve as a benchmark for other policies.
the thematic strategy under discussion is probably the most important sub-strategy of the sixth environment action programme, with its aim of more efficient use of energy and raw materials.
its main objective is to prevent the unnecessary waste of renewable and non-renewable resources, which threatens the balance of the environment.
the strategy is closely linked to the process of reviewing european waste management law.
priorities in the policy debate on resource conservation have already significantly increased the willingness of citizens to participate in the useful reuse of waste.
just as mining can be used to extract iron, zinc, copper, plastic, using advanced methods of collection and separation, we will use three times less energy than producing it from new raw materials.
italy and slovenia were upset by the croatian parliament's decision in december to activate the croatian ecological and fishing zone.
the commission's proposal for a directive is part of the process of simplifying the legal environment.
the shift towards renewable energy sources is an area where national development interests are intertwined with community objectives.
sustainable urban development also requires a coordinated approach to the use of the various structural policy tools, as it touches on a number of objectives, from housing to employment to waste management, as a specific aspect of the relationship with natural resources.
the need to create more synergies between the convention on the conservation of species and other multilateral instruments and procedures concerning biodiversity; in particular, the outcomes of the 14th conference should contribute to significantly reducing the global rate of biodiversity loss by 2010 and to achieving the millennium development goals.
this is the only way to reduce poaching and illegal trade and ensure the sustainability of international trade in species.
it therefore calls on all elephant range states to engage in constructive dialogue and cooperation on elephant conservation and sustainable management.
in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee on the environment for their interest in this important question.
the cop should reconfirm the important contribution that cites made, or can make, to reaching the 2010 target of significantly reducing the rate of biodiversity loss.
the community fully supports the contribution of cites to this global target by regulating international trade in wildlife and wildlife products in order to ensure that this is sustainable.
the new strategic vision for cites for 2008 to 2013 will determine how cites can ensure that conservation, sustainable use and poverty reduction can also be mutually supportive and are therefore crucial for the continued importance and relevance of cites.
given the strain on natural resources and continued over-exploitation, the community believes that cites could focus more on ensuring sustainable trade in such species.
i speak for almost all the members of the committee on the environment when i say that the question of bioactive substances must be dealt with in a complex, interrelated way.
i propose that the resolution adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment be supported by the members in plenary.
we had the concerns we expressed in the debate in the committee on the environment, but after we have summed up the pros and cons of the new proposal, we believe that comitology with the right of inquiry gives parliament the opportunity to supplement the technical aspects of the approval of additives with certain political criteria which it considers important from the point of view of long-term consumer protection.
the process therefore requires the simultaneous formulation of a common european external policy, or at least a common european external energy policy.
renewable energy sources address two major challenges: firstly, the security of energy supply, as they provide diversity and reduce import dependency, and secondly, climate change, as they do not cause direct greenhouse gas emissions.
renewable energy has been a hot topic in europe for some time: renewable energy is a topic that raises political points.
their importance for further social development is supported by politicians, economists, scientists, energy professionals and citizens who are not otherwise professionally involved in either the energy or environmental fields.
but the share of renewables in the overall energy mix is only slowly increasing.
i think not, as renewables account for a large proportion of european energy legislation.
i believe that renewable energy cannot be treated in isolation.
we need to evaluate their strengths and weaknesses along with other energy sources.
we need to take into account their contribution to the diversity of the energy mix, to the security of energy supply, to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and to the creation of a knowledge-based society.
in fact, when deciding on a particular investment, an important factor is how much financial investment is required to release, for example, one tonne of carbon into the environment.
until we build on our traditional approach to policy-making with a proper comparative cost analysis, we will not achieve the desired results in energy and environmental policy-making.
in this case, in the case of a comprehensive analysis, the barriers between the different energy sources will be broken down, because only a diverse, sustainable energy mix will count.
nuclear energy is an important component of a european energy policy mix, and today we are witnessing a renewed interest in nuclear energy, both at european and international level.
the role of nuclear energy is becoming increasingly visible, not only in europe but also globally.
the security of supply, the competitiveness of energy markets and the minimisation of the environmental impact of energy production and consumption are the cornerstones of the european union's energy policy.
in addition, sustainable energy development also has a positive impact on technological development, economic growth and employment.
a balanced energy mix is one of the prerequisites for sustainable development, combating global warming and climate change, reducing import dependency and ensuring a secure energy supply.
nuclear energy is also an integral part of this in the european union.
and that is why we need to ensure a safe and reliable supply of nuclear materials and competitive, well-functioning energy markets that we can trust.
in the light of the changed circumstances on global energy markets, its role should be further strengthened.
nuclear power is part of the energy mix and i want it to operate under the same conditions as other energy sources.
the european union is a world leader in tackling climate change and developing new environmentally friendly technologies.
the need to reduce the human impact on the natural environment is becoming increasingly evident in many countries of the world.
this is true even in countries where, until recently, environmental concerns were not a priority.
let me just take the example of china, which was recently visited by a delegation from the interim committee on climate change and was briefed on the situation there.
although china, as a developing country under the kyoto protocol, is not required to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, it is aware of the problem of global warming and has already started to act.
it adopted a national programme on climate change response, setting itself a number of ambitious targets.
i therefore invite the delegation in bali to represent europe's position on the fight against global warming appropriately and with a single voice.
in my view, the only way to reduce warming sufficiently is to establish a global carbon market.
we need to develop our policies steadily and continue to innovate in the energy, transport and other sectors that cause greenhouse gas emissions.
in this context, i welcome the clear approach of the agreement to development tasks in the fields of tourism, environmental protection, transport and energy.