mr president, as a member of the committee on the lisbon strategy and as the alde group coordinator in the committee on industry, research and energy, i have three wishes at the start of the new year.
second, use the lisbon agenda to combine economic, social and environmental development and start to create a truly european green industrial policy, because that is one way of competing with the americans.
third, with regard to energy: develop a new strategy on production, distribution and consumption of energy.
finally, the baltic gas pipeline has to be judged according to swedish environmental rules.
it's also a gigantic waste of resources.
as much as i would like to rule that the germans should not have their autobahn for environmental or safety reasons, it would be counterproductive to impose it on them from the outside.
it is also an environmental benefit not to allow trucks to compete with trains by using poor safety.
mr president, we have two tasks to fulfil: one is to reduce co2 emissions and the other is to ensure that we can meet the changes that follow climate change.
they both require that we have the resources for investment, that we have the opportunities for growth and the opportunities to take care of the environment.
long-truck combinations are one of the more substantial ways of reducing co2 emissions regarding road transport.
the second task concerns energy policy.
phasing out nuclear power in the way and at a pace that is being planned in today’s europe is a secure way of getting increased co2 emissions.
if we succeed in launching more renewable energy sources, then the phasing-out of nuclear power will reduce the gains and maybe we will get into minus with increased co2 emissions.
you should do that not in order to solve the greenhouse effect, as some say, but in order not to make things worse.
we must at least keep the same share of energy coming from nuclear power that we have today in order not to increase co2 emissions.
mr president, first of all i would like to agree with mrs doyle that the problem that we are facing is not environmental.
to mr reul i would like to say that i think we have to realise that parallel to climate change, we are also affected by the depletion of fisheries, huge and rapid deforestation, and water scarcity in many parts of the world.
we have to face the fact that the lifestyles that we have developed in a world with 8 to 9 billion people goes beyond the carrying capacity of the globe, and that is why we have to take a systematic approach that brings us back onto a normal, sustainable path.
the reason i asked to speak is primarily that i am very disappointed with one aspect of the energy and climate package from the commission.
you talk, commissioner, in that package, about an energy partnership with africa.
in the coming five to ten years, emissions from these countries because of expanding energy systems will totally overwhelm us unless we help them to do the right things now.
but then we disregard the historic responsibility we have for all the emissions in the past and we also disregard the fact that the chinese need skilled people; they need technology to make it happen; they need to invest in clean technology.
we have to have this dual approach, and i feel the omission of this in your energy package is conspicuous.
that also goes for the discussion about climate change because we are, from an economic point of view and also from an environmental point of view, one of the leading global actors.
we can contribute to the discussion about reducing the greenhouse effect more than anyone else and that is why we need to do it, but we need to do it wisely, securing the opportunities for growth and investment and high-tech, because otherwise we will not be able to meet the challenges of climate change when it comes.
we need to reduce greenhouse gases, but at the same time to secure a stable and prosperous economy which makes us able to meet future challenges.
all of that is in the context of the political environment and the political solution and at this very moment we are cautiously optimistic because there is the outline at the horizon of a national unity government in palestine.
the eu's fisheries policy has generally discouraged the long-term sustainable exploitation of marine resources by subsidising the purchase of efficient boats by fishermen.
we voted in favour of amendments nos 3 and 8 because we think it would be good if the eu member states could agree unanimously on taxes that help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the greenhouse effect is one of the great problems of our time.
it is therefore important that major efforts are made to reduce co2 emissions.
one of the most important and best ways of eliminating co2 emissions is to replace energy production by burning coal and oil with nuclear power.
the iaea has stated that nuclear power is a necessary component for reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
it is regrettable that this resolution chooses to ignore this by insisting that emissions must not be reduced by nuclear energy.
we believe that the lisbon strategy should continue to be based on the mutual support of social, economic and environmental policies.
it is important to continue the work on the strategy by emphasising a holistic approach, which means well-functioning and open markets, education, an active gender equality welfare policy and a progressive environmental policy, which together contribute to growth and job creation.
we also oppose legislation that encourages the use of 'clean energy' and 'carbon neutral energy technologies', as this could be interpreted as supporting the expansion of nuclear power.
we would rather see increased efforts to develop renewable energy, to promote sustainable development.
it is also about a good working environment and influence, so that you yourself and your trade union organisation have influence.
i am responsible for a case on cod fishing in the baltic sea in the environment committee.
the environmental movement should put its demands for a fisheries moratorium down somewhere.
the report calls for continued forced liberalisation of the energy market, but combines this with calls for investment and tax policies that favour renewable energy.
junilista believes that adaptation to rising energy prices is best done at national level.
for example, in the draft report, paragraph 20, it is considered that there is no eu energy regulator.
eu countries have to agree on certain energy targets.
csr can make a major contribution to sustainable development and increase europe's innovation potential and competitiveness.
the social environment is an important factor in competition, but it is not the responsibility of policy alone.
they have a responsibility for the social climate, for the environment, for equality, for education, for innovation and for structural change.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
this is because the president of the commission appointed an advisory group on the important issues of energy and climate change as recently as 6 march this year.
first of all, i would like to thank the committee on the environment for putting this excellent question to the commission, which gives us the opportunity to hear the commission's reaction to important questions.
i would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction, as so many others have, that climate/energy policy is now high on the commission's agenda.
the second area concerns the working environment.
greenhouse gas emissions are a concern.
they appear to be leading to rapid changes in the earth's climate.
by taking the lead, we increase our ability to put pressure on china, india, the united states and russia, and europe can gain an environmental technological edge.
i would like to clarify that if an eu-based transnational company is involved in social dumping or environmental dumping, either itself or through subsidiaries and subcontractors, then they cannot be counted as a community interest merely because they are registered in the eu.
i am missing the whole dimension of environmental dumping, let me remind you of paragraph 11 of the muscardini report from october: the european parliament calls on the commission to consider whether a comprehensive review of the rules on the use of trade defence measures in the wto would be appropriate.
this is intended to include non-compliance with global environmental and social agreements and agreements as a form of dumping or subsidization.
countries with weak environmental legislation or lacking the environmental taxes of competitors must be considered as subsidising or dumping production costs just like your traditional dumping.
then there will be no free zones for environmental destruction that undermine global environmental work.
many people think the wto is powerful, but one thing is certain: the climate is totally disregarded by the wto and will change regardless of what the wto thinks if we do not incorporate climate action into trade policy.
workers, the environment and local small businesses.
two examples: it's good for monsanto if they can patent crops in south america, but bad for farmers and the environment, and good for european healthcare companies if the healthcare sector is exposed to competition, but bad for those who can't afford to pay for healthcare.
the following text is missing from the chinese version: with a view to including non-compliance with global social and environmental agreements or international covenants as forms of dumping or subsidy.
if the whole dimension of environmental and social dumping is missing from the swedish version, the swedish people will have a wrong picture of what parliament wants.
and now, faced with climate change, the greenland seal needs ice cover to feed its young.
there are therefore strong reasons to reform it towards fairness, transparency and long-term sustainability.
organic production is very important from both an environmental and a health point of view.
we are convinced that the free market forces, with conscious european consumers at the forefront, will be the ones to cope with the urgent need to make the transition to organic and long-term sustainable agriculture.
there is a parallel proposal dealing with serious environmental offences, clearly defined offences which cause serious harm to people and cause death.
we have here a bill that aims to protect commercial interests without risk to consumers and the environment.
i am thinking of the climate issue, which requires action in the fields of research, the environment and energy.
despite repeated reports of fraudulent behavior, irregularities, incompetence and waste, the house grants year after year a discharge with near-north korean majorities.
instead, we believe that the sustainable use of natural resources requires clear ownership rights, which allow the use of natural resources to be governed by market mechanisms, not political decisions.
we moderates believe that through production and trade we can not only end poverty but also improve our environment.
i have today voted in favour of amendment no 3 by the green group to the liotard report on the sustainable use of natural resources.
i support the principle of redistributing tax revenues from growth-inhibiting taxes on labour, capital and consumption to taxes on activities with a negative environmental impact.
what should be limited instead are the emissions generated by these transports.
the ecological system and other issues must be taken into account.
there are no special rights for one or the other company, but national and european regulations must be respected, especially as regards environmental protection.
if there is a dispute and an environmental assessment in swedish waters, is it the ecj or the swedish environmental court that will decide the case?
firstly, these measures are artificial breathing which do not lead to longterm and sustainable development.
therefore, the current policy is not sustainable.
the eu will be strictly concerned with trade issues as well as cross-border environmental issues.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i also want to mention one of my favorite examples of absurd trade barriers, namely the eu's strange tariffs on low-energy light bulbs.
because while we are worried about the greenhouse effect and talking about banning ordinary light bulbs, we are protected from importing low-energy light bulbs by high tariffs!
all the threats and boycotts, the interference in the internal affairs of other countries and the blackmailing by means of the lack of energy supplies seem to have been forgotten.
these fuels are taxed because they have harmful effects on the environment.
by imposing a tax, the environmental damage caused by incineration can be counteracted.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce the level of pollution.
but it is also important that we work at the same time to ensure good environmental and working conditions for people in countries that are poorer than the eu countries.
but i think they are interconnected: without decent work, we will not have long-term sustainable growth.
a common environment minister and eventually a common prime minister?
if the european union were a failure, no one would have turned to us to deal with climate change or to contribute to stability in the balkans.
we must have the opportunity to make the necessary decisions in order to fight crime, to meet the challenges of environmental and energy policy and to secure stability in our neighbourhood and in other parts of the world where it is needed.
the climate threat must have a place, social europe must have a place, and it is important - as others have said - that enlargement can be achieved.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
as the rapporteur on cod fisheries in the committee on the environment, i would first of all like to express my regret that so few of our views are included in the report on which we are voting tomorrow.
these quotas must be based on science, not political nightmares, because the focus must be on the environment and the long-term sustainability of fisheries, not short-term labour market policy objectives.
a proposal which also fails to take account of the consequences for biodiversity.
i would therefore have preferred the house to support a cod ban, as the committee on the environment proposed in its opinion.
the fact that we are not acting on the basis of the scientific knowledge available is one of the reasons for the threats to cod and the entire baltic sea ecosystem that we see today.
paragraph 12 highlights issues of importance to citizens such as social europe and the fight against climate change.
as a member of the committee on the environment, i want to devote all my time and energy to working for a better environment and better public health not defining alcohol types.
however, i deeply regret that not even a majority in the committee on the environment could support my amendments to put warning labels on alcohol.
last but not least, the european energy charter.
today, there is growing evidence that it is indeed the rich world, through our lifestyle and the large emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases that affect the climate, that has caused climate change in sub-saharan africa, leaving people there without adequate food and water supplies.
it emphasizes our responsibility to ensure that our carbon emissions do not affect the poorest people on earth.
to do this, we must both drastically reduce our emissions of climate-changing gases and support developing countries to cope with the enormous transformation the world is facing.
it's about everything from coping with, for example, rising water levels to making sure that developing countries that have the ability to produce renewable energy have the ability to do so, and thus also have the ability to lift themselves out of poverty.
i would stress that the situation, from the point of view of the type of legal obligations arising from the treaty, is not comparable when we consider, on the one hand, the need to move towards economic and monetary union and, on the other, the need to comply with the energy security standards contained in our basic standards.
so stick to the rapporteur's line on protecting the environment and public health and do not go along with the liberal line on the market.
it will protect the health of thousands of people and our shared environment.
mercury is dangerous to health and the environment, and we now have 12 000 tonnes of mercury to be stored.
spending a lot of community money on this, might sound attractive to big business, but voters and consumers will increasingly regard this as a scandalous waste of money.
as you are aware, decision no 1364/2006/ec of the european parliament and of the council laying down guidelines for trans-european energy networks and repealing decision 96/391/ec and decision no 1229/2003/ec refers in several places to a gas pipeline from russia to germany via the baltic sea offshore route.
in particular, i would remind you, mr president, of article 13 of the decision, which reads as follows: this decision is without prejudice to the results of the environmental impact assessment of projects and the plans or programmes which set the framework for the future approval of the projects in question.
where the relevant community legislation provides for an environmental impact assessment, the results of that assessment shall be taken into account before a decision is taken on the implementation of the projects under the relevant community legislation.as regards the second part of the request, the treaty gives the commission the task of ensuring the correct application of community legislation and, in the event of infringements, of taking the measures it considers appropriate.
this principle is of course also applicable to the community rules in force on environmental impact assessment.
as an eu country, and right now as the presidency, germany is advocating a common energy policy for the eu.
i also think that in future we must think more about the fact that procurement is not just about economics, but that we must have a procurement system which also takes into account the fact that we are reducing transport and reducing the negative impact on the climate that we actually have when we have a public procurement system involving 27 member states.
i believe that the wording proposed in the amendments better reflects the complexity and speed of change in the digital environment.
it may go without saying that the digital environment needs a well-functioning framework in terms of rules and legislation.
of course, we also need laws that work in a changing environment.
the first concerns the climate and the need for an energy policy that will enable the eu member states to stand together and safeguard their integrity and security.
but it is far from clear how all additives affect our health and the environment, and sometimes additives are used to mislead us consumers.
i therefore want to strengthen eu legislation on food additives, in particular by tightening the requirement that consumers must not be misled and that the authorization must take account of the impact on the environment and the situation of allergies.
this was also the view of the committee on the environment, and i hope that parliament will also support this position tomorrow.
therefore, the environmental impact of additives must be taken into account in the decision whether or not to use them.
environmental protection should also be one of the objectives of the regulation.
to further clarify this, the legal basis for food law should be amended to make it clear that it aims to improve human health and the environment and not only to promote the free movement of goods in the eu internal market.
the committee on the environment has supported a number of proposals to increase environmental consideration and i hope that parliament will be able to do the same tomorrow.
the committee on the environment has partly supported my demands on this and i hope that tomorrow parliament will take the opportunity to make things even easier for allergy sufferers by supporting my amendment and others to take greater account of allergy sufferers.
the environmental impact of additives must be taken into account when authorising.
consumers have every reason to believe that natural and fresh food will not lose its competitive edge through lax legislation on additives, which favours food made for large-scale and centralised production with long transport times, which is hardly good for the environment either.
first, the importance of an efficient gas and electricity market is greater than ever if we are to fight climate change, if we are to secure the opportunities for renewable energies and if we are to take care of european competitiveness.
second, we need an energy policy that can face the challenge of the risk of dependency on either big domestic producers or on foreign stakeholders that try to combine economic power with political pressures by controlling production as well as distribution.
those are two elements that we need to deal with if we are to have a strong common energy policy.
those are the reasons why the european union needs an energy market with fair and undistorted competition, with open markets, without economic patriotism, but rather characterised by liberté, égalité et fraternité.
we need unbundling in order to ensure there is competition and new energy sources, and we need a common electric grid and gas networks across the whole of europe in order to ensure that there is an efficient market and solidarity.
in these ways we can combine solidarity with efficiency, competition with cooperation and the efforts of fighting climate change with economic growth.
i hope that all my colleagues will show in the vote tomorrow how embarrassing these letters are and that we will take our responsibility for the environment and human health seriously by voting against all the amendments which aim to maintain the use of mercury.
the savings to be made by such a change are marginal and the environmental gains are non-existent, since the same transport will be carried out and the same premises will be needed in the future.
policies to combat climate change are obviously important.
i am voting against amendment no 34 because marine biodiversity is not a strictly national issue.
it's important for the environment.
the cramer report states correctly that, in the transport of goods, environmental issues have been neglected.
it is important that long-term aid be part of a sustainable development framework so that we do not pump money in and burn it out again.
we're changing the climate, which is leading to both extreme drought and extreme rainfall.
to make this sustainable in the long term, climate action is needed, both legislation and a real protection of areas.
we want a europe that brings security, prosperity and environmental protection to all areas of life.
there have been attempts in the past, but this project we are talking about today has two very special features: scope and sustainability.
it ranges from examining the need for legislation under strict subsidiarity control, to broad consultation of the groups concerned, to impact assessment of the economic, social and environmental consequences, to the question of the best possible application and implementation of community law.
the second innovation is the sustainability with which we are pursuing this approach.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to the detriment of the environment.
these independent experts, representing small and large businesses, consumers and environmental organisations, advise the commission on potential reduction measures.
we consider the report to be a balanced view of the internal market and particularly welcome the work on the social and environmental impact assessments which will form the basis for new policy initiatives.
in addition to the nuclear energy texts which i cannot support, the report criticises excise duties and minimum harmonization in the consumer sector, which could have negative consequences for swedish alcohol policy and consumer protection in the long run.
the environment committee is trying to get in here and finger national issues.
it is therefore more intelligent to invest in the future by having the maximum sustainable return today, rather than a maximum temporary return, as has been the union's policy so far.
we have chosen not to support the report because it seeks to undermine some of the good intentions of the commission to create a more sustainable fishery.
eu fisheries must become more ecologically sustainable to protect both the eu's marine environments and the long-term survival of the fishing industry.
mr president, churchill once said that the best way to make a task seem difficult is to postpone it, and i think that is one way of describing the energy debate we are having in europe today.
the proposal from the commission and the decisions we have in place on 20% of the total energy consumption in europe by 2020 being derived from renewable sources is, indeed, very good.
the renewable action plan – both at european level and national levels – has to be good and come into force quickly.
finally, i think we are in the midst of an engineering revolution that has the same consequences as when we went from steam to electricity, and now we are going from electricity to smart energy, and this is a very good step on the way.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
– madam president, the cornerstones of the energy policy for the european union are transparency, reciprocity and the rule of law.
and, as we have all experienced in the last two years, this is also a vitally important issue when it comes to energy and foreign relations.
we already have problems in europe when it comes to security of supply, consumer rights and environmental concerns, and we have to do something about the greenhouse effect.
so we have to rebuild our energy system in europe with regard to production, distribution and consumption.
he has taken account of all the texts from the committee on industry, research and energy.
this new institution would, as i see it, cause uncertainty of roles, a divide-and-conquer situation, and it takes completely the opposite approach to our cornerstones in our energy policy.
finally, i want to agree with the commissioner that it is vitally important that we add the energy issue to the new treaty.
saryusz-wolski has done extremely important work in shifting the focus from energy as a matter of our convenience to energy as a matter of geopolitical importance.
we should bear in mind that a secure energy supply is of vital interest to hundreds of millions of europe's citizens.
finally, saryusz-wolski is absolutely right when he says that we need to speak with one voice on this issue, precisely because the energy issue is also clearly a security issue.
transparency, reciprocity and the rule of law are cornerstones of european energy policy and consequently in our foreign policy.
it is however not the right time to add new institutions and i am therefore against the creation of the new position of a high official of foreign energy policy which also threatens the influence of the european parliament when it comes to foreign energy policy.
it is a principle that is also sustainable for the future.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i was surprised to see that the commission's proposal was to divide europe into zones which are relatively similar in terms of vegetation, climate, etc.
for example, targeted environmental taxes should be introduced, as well as reasonable excise duties on, for example, alcohol and tobacco, as the commissioner points out.
if we are to solve the major climate and energy challenges we face, it would be irresponsible for us to exclude governing fiscal instruments.
it is indeed possible to achieve high growth, with high environmental and energy costs, and at the same time to reduce the overall tax burden.
however, parliament did not protect the residents in the way that the committee on the environment wanted.
how else will we be able to respond in the future to the requirements of climate and energy policy, for example?
let me give just a few brief examples: subsidies for silkworm farms, beekeeping, cotton farms, energy crops, figs, hemp, nuts, olive groves, rice farms and tobacco.
the total budgetary lines are over eur 1 858 436 000. apart from the fact that the budget lines are, in my view, an incredible waste of european taxpayers' money, they do more harm than good.
we have voted against the report because we do not think it is balanced and, in particular, avoids addressing important problems with nuclear energy.
we also do not believe that the union's energy research funds should be used to develop new generations of nuclear fission reactors.
we are questioning the environmental value of synthetic fuels produced from fossil sources or hydrogen produced from energy of the same origin or nuclear fuel, as none of these energy sources are sustainable in the long term from an environmental or supply point of view.
we believe that carbon capture can be an important part of reducing carbon emissions, but other energy-saving, efficiency measures and the development of renewable energy are more sustainable in the long term and should be the ultimate goal.
i have chosen to support the report because the eu has discussed in an unusually balanced way the need to include nuclear energy in the future energy mix in europe.
the report states, inter alia, that 'in order to meet basic needs, nuclear energy cannot be abandoned in europe in the medium term' and 'that nuclear power is currently the largest low-carbon energy source in europe and emphasises its potential role in climate protection'.
nuclear power currently accounts for one third of the eu's electricity supply and will continue to be one of the most important sources of energy in many eu member states.
when the issue of co2 emissions is brought up, it is unfortunate in my view that nuclear energy is not given greater attention.
if we are to meet the energy needs of the future without increasing dependence on fossil fuels and rising co2 emissions, the development of new and safe nuclear power will be crucial.
we have voted in favour of the davies report on a strategy to reduce co2 emissions from cars (a6-0343/07).
to reduce co2 emissions, the priority is to reduce the share of co2 from road transport.
but we believe that car manufacturers should be given the opportunity to choose how they want to meet the environmental targets that we politicians set.
we chose to vote in favour of this report because it emphasises in many ways the role of tax policy in the member states for employment, welfare and the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market.
unfortunately, i do not think that is enough, but we must of course also look at other possibilities, such as energy production.
today there is also too large a focus on industrial agriculture and foreign policy and military projects, and not enough on the environment and social projects.
we voted against amendment no 7. we fully support the intention to promote the sustainable development of fisheries, which is also the aim of the new fisheries agreement.
we believe that the joint committee to be set up to monitor the agreement is a better solution to ensure that the agreement is respected and that it benefits both parties and the environment.
we voted against amendment no 8. we fully support the intention to promote sustainable development in fisheries, which is also the aim of the new fisheries agreement.
we believe that the joint committee to be set up to monitor the agreement is a better solution to ensure that the agreement is respected and that it benefits both parties and the environment.
climate change is a transboundary environmental problem and the eu is a key player in global climate action.
emissions are rising globally and time is running out.
the integration of aviation into the eu emissions trading system is a self-evident and cost-effective step in climate action.
but it is not trade itself that leads to emissions reductions, but the overall emission ceiling that we choose to set.
the system must be broadened to include additional climate-impacted sectors to achieve the climate goals we have committed to.
it is unacceptable that the commission has been influenced by international political pressure to delay climate action and distort competition.
finally, i would point out that common environmental objectives should not be used as a means of introducing a common tax policy.
the airline has to pay for its environmental costs, and that's why this proposal is good.
air transport cannot be exempted from environmental costs paid by other modes of transport.
but i have a hard time with the air-hunting hysteria that is so much in the air, as if it were the biggest environmental problem and the best thing for us to do is to stop flying altogether.
air travel accounts for five percent of carbon dioxide emissions.
proposals like these create a well-deserved contempt for politicians, and i am glad that we in the committee on the environment have removed those very words.
instead, tomorrow we will vote for tough but realistic demands on the airline industry, which will force them to pay for their environmental costs.
to take the plane against the real carbon sinks, like coal-fired power plants.
because the important thing is that emissions are reduced not flight.
we swedish social democrats have chosen to support parliament's report as a first step towards reducing the climate impact of aviation.
the entry into force of the directive has also been brought forward by one year from the date decided by parliament's committee on the environment.
in the long term, we would prefer to see aviation have its own emissions trading system.
i am in favour of investing in research and development, of making more long-term investments in good environmental conditions and of investing in people and lifelong learning, but what the commission forgets - the mistake in the commission document - is that it forgets the social dimension.
the commission will be able to make a contribution to the development of the european union's energy policy.
we need to focus our efforts on different policy areas and aid needs to be changed to be climate-friendly as well.
large areas are being cleared today and we all know what that means for the climate.
the very idea of sustainable production is of the utmost importance.
a pristine forest is good for biodiversity, but a decaying forest releases large amounts of methane gas.
what we need is a growing forest where the end product is harvested in such a way that it locks in co2 and other greenhouse gases.
we're about to decide how to fight global warming after 2012, when the kyoto protocol expires.
we are calling for reductions of up to 80 percent by 2050, support for developing countries to reduce their emissions, action against the meat industry which accounts for almost a fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions, more flexible patent laws to make it easier to spread green technology, certification of biofuels to avoid them coming into conflict with the food supply and the preservation of the world's forests.
there are eleven amendments, and most of them i think are good and reinforce the focus of the resolution, namely that it is the rich world that is responsible for climate change and therefore must take the lead in radical reductions.
i am concerned about amendment no 7, which calls for the use of nuclear energy to combat the greenhouse effect.
we're not going to replace one environmental problem with another.
it is almost 15 years since the rio conference signed the climate convention, and yet it is a fact that climate emissions are increasing faster today than ever before.
the eu must continue to take a leading role through domestic action, from tougher requirements for the cars of tomorrow to increased support for alternative energy sources.
the money allocated to various adaptation funds and the recent initiative of the commission, the 'climate alliance', are not enough.
climate policy is not going to stand or fall with bali, but a successful outcome in bali will of course increase the chances of reaching a final agreement in 2009. to facilitate this, i assume that the commission and the council will listen to parliament, not least on the need to do much more in terms of technological cooperation, adaptation measures and forestry issues.
it is possible to change the social reality, but then public health and environmental concerns must take precedence over the competition rules of the internal market, and social welfare and security must take precedence over the deregulation of privatisations.
in the long term, this risks damaging the entire ecosystem of the fisheries concerned.
the current political climate in pakistan is certainly critical, following the declaration of a state of emergency by the president and the clear violations of human rights committed through imprisonment, violence against peaceful demonstrators and the silencing of the media.
among other things it clarifies the significant amount of emissions which are emitted from the livestock sector.
it also emphasises the importance of relevant support to developing countries in their prevention and mitigation work to limit the negative effects of climate change.
however, we do not support the proposal that nuclear energy should be seen as a tool which is necessary to prevent climate change.
environmental issues are transboundary and therefore the un climate conferences are an important diplomatic arena for change at the global level.
the fight against climate change is a good goal for something, but it is regrettable that global environmental policy in the hands of the eu is crossing the border into foreign policy, while dictating to third countries as well as to member states what their national climate policy should look like.
the junilista believes that each country should have its own voice at the climate conference and we have therefore chosen to vote against this resolution.
as proof of the vitality of the child, i would mention the promotion of cultural diversity in the digital environment, the recognition given to new advertising techniques, a legal framework finally secured for product placement, the attention finally paid to access to audiovisual media services for our citizens with visual or acoustic disabilities, the trust placed in industry by providing for the implementation of the directive through self-regulation or co-regulation.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
it is high time that world trade also took its climate responsibility.
what does that lead to from a climate perspective?
yes, of course, to increased transport and increased emissions.
we demand that transport bears its environmental cost.
we want to eliminate subsidies for dirty energy production.
we want mandatory environmental certification of biofuels and that all trade agreements be analysed from a climate perspective.
there are problems in the labour market with precarious employment and wages that are not sustainable.
we also convinced the european parliament not to support the description of the market economy as the cause of the world's environmental problems.
we have therefore voted in favour of the report on trade and climate change.
trade is not in itself a threat to the environment - quite the contrary.
trade is creating the wealth we need to meet our future environmental challenges.
it allows us to use scarce resources more efficiently and to lift people out of poverty, which is the root of most of the world's environmental problems.
openness and trade are also the prerequisites for technology transfer, which means that developing countries can today get a better environment faster than we got.
transport that does not bear its environmental costs is a major problem.
parliament should instead focus on forcing transport to bear its environmental costs.
the concern we all have for the environment must not be used as an excuse for protectionism, because protectionism is a threat to development and therefore a threat to a healthy environment.
the junilist believes that the eu has an important role to play in the fight to reduce the impact of humanity on the earth's climate.
as one of the largest players in world trade, the eu is thus able to influence the environmental impact of production and international transport.
instead, the eu should continue on its path as an example and ally for all countries that want to take responsibility for climate change in the world.
lipietz report on trade and climate change touches on two of the areas where the eu has the most power to influence internationally.
only with trade and economic development can there be a real opportunity to lift people out of poverty and to affect the environment.
europe's commitment to the environment and development must continue to be a catalyst for a sustainable economy based on trade, not a barrier to it.
a damaged marine environment leads to a reduced quality of life for many people and is not a desirable development.
we in the european parliament have higher ambitions than the commission and i am glad that we have set the target of achieving a good environment by 2017 and not by 2021. i am also pleased that member states will be presenting action programmes for marine environments as early as 2015. thank you commissioner franco frattini for joining us now!
it is also important that we who are involved in external environmental policy cooperate with russia on the baltic sea and the marine environment.
we have to make decisions on both environmental and energy policy.
marine environment in the center now!
the eu should develop and monitor regulatory systems for the internal market and for environmental cooperation.
we should invest heavily in basic research because then we have an opportunity to develop fusion energy.
that leads us to the conclusion that it is important that the european council underlines all the efforts that are needed regarding energy legislation, telecom legislation, the internal market, trade and competition.
mr president, the negotiations in bali on climate change were a success, but we have to think further.
we have to engage with the g77 group on forestry, the combination of technology transfer and the fight against poverty and climate change.
it is not only the lisbon treaty but also the lisbon process that we have to merge together and with the work of climate change.