in writing. i thank you for the insight into the objectives of the croatian presidency and wish you a lot of success in implementing them! but i also have a request: you have explicitly mentioned the need to secure our external borders and shortly afterwards the indispensable need to guarantee the rule of law. so you too must be convinced that these two needs must be reconciled. however, unfortunately, for over two years now, there have been a number of very credible reports of illegal returns, including violence and theft of migrants, at the croatian-bosnian external border of the eu. now, of course, you can say, "where's the proof that i don't know anything?" but if there are so many similar reports, if there are people who are found with relevant injuries and robbed in the bosnian border area, is that not reason enough for the croatian government to look closely at what practices are actually being applied in croatian border protection? i am therefore asking you to make these accusations the chief concern of your presidency and to ensure that this blemish does not remain attached to your presidency from the outset and remain a dark shadow.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the situation in venezuela is shocking. for example, the austrian foreign ministry describes the situation in the world's largest oil-rich nation as follows: political instability, deaths at protests, brutal robberies, widespread use of firearms, and a growing economic and medical emergency. so far, so sad, so well known. but what is always very much hidden is the cause of this violent chaos, and that is a brutal left-wing socialist dictator who is clinging to power with all, literally with all means. if we can't do it with votes, we will do it with weapons that's how maduro recently summed up his ruling motto. in spite of this, or perhaps precisely because of this, this regime has been and continues to be praised by leftists throughout europe as a model to follow. that is why the fight against violent left-wing extremism is particularly important, not only in venezuela but also in europe, so that it does not reach the same level in europe as in venezuela.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. two examples: migration since 2015 you are not in a position to provide adequate protection at the external borders. the second example is the field of economics, currency. we have a zero-interest policy in monetary matters, as opposed to a negative policy. the economy is weak and we are not able to stimulate the economy here. but where success is suggested here by pushing the central areas aside, that's the climate crisis. but they use that to extract even more money from people's pockets with a co2 tax. the european union is failing again, however, to establish a location, and month after month 120 official vehicles are ordered from brussels to strasbourg with only one driver each and have to return. recognize that the future of europe is not in centralization, that nation states are good enough and smart enough to solve their problems largely on their own, and that this is where a successful future for europe lies. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. you haven't even talked about it. i would therefore ask you what would be the objection to bringing the citizens of the union into this conference and to discussing with them their ideas about the future of europe, because you have always refused to listen to their voices, because they would think much further and think much more european than you would allow them to think.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the last european elections showed us that the citizens still want to believe in the european project, provided that europe changes. alone today, locked in our states, we're not going anywhere. the international crises on our borders are only the last warning bell of the need for a europe with one voice, but it is the last call to change europe. we have a duty to open a new constituent phase with this conference, an opportunity for a revival to focus on a more democratic europe, with a central role for the european parliament, but also a moment of openness and listening to get the citizens excited again and to talk about their needs and expectations. we need a dynamic and pragmatic conference which can give the european institutions a real breakthrough in terms of effectiveness and credibility. but be careful, fellas! we must avoid a debate that is an end in itself, where the intentions do not follow the facts, because otherwise the conference becomes an opportunity to fuel the engine of anti-europeanism, and we cannot afford that.
just briefly, when people are speaking really fast, i get a flashing light from the interpreters, so say less rather than more, and then you’ll be within your time. a small piece of advice.
i have to say, madam president, with the conference on the future of europe, we are delivering on a promise that europe must work better in the future. i am very pleased that over the next two years we will be bringing the citizens of europe to the curtain to ask them what their expectations might be for a strong europe of the future. the central question will be: what is our vision of a common europe? and also to the citizens: what is your vision of the future of europe? important reforms often fail because of fear - fear that citizens do not want something they think they want. but my experience from many conversations is that the citizens of the union think much further, much more boldly than their leaders might even now believe them to. and so let us take that courage and let us also take decisions which will be essential and decisive for europe to function better! we have so many challenges that we face here every day, like the climate catastrophe. how can we meet them if not in a better, more united and stronger europe? i hope that we will take this conference as an opportunity to carry on this spirit of commonality in the years to come, and for me that means: onward to the united states of europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, it is shocking that there has been no adequate response from hungary or the council here in the european parliament to the sargentini report of 2018. instead, the hungarian government continues to openly violate eu law and is becoming more and more a sham democracy with limited press freedom, no independent judiciary, a university is being expelled, ngos are being harassed and the council is watching. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the s&d group therefore calls on the council and the commission not only to continue the article 7 procedure with the necessary seriousness, but also to complete the law linking eu funding to the rule of law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. fraud and corruption have no place in our eu. we owe this above all to our taxpayers. i would just like to say one thing: mr david has left the chamber, but if he is going to make a general attack on entrepreneurs, then we are talking about a conflict of interest between politics and entrepreneurship. as a businesswoman and politician, it is clear that i will not take advantage of any public funding during my term of office, nor will i participate in any public tenders. for a politician, criminal law simply cannot be the moral authority. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. yes, now it is a matter of clarifying matters quickly, demanding transparency and making repayments quickly if they are to be made. and the political consequences will be decided by the citizens of the czech republic in the future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we've heard a lot about biodiversity. i would like to take this brief moment to focus on a particular biodiversity issue, the largest ecosystem, which is the dirt under our feet, the soil. soil is the last paradise under our feet, and it has so many microbial functions, water purification, storage functions, it feeds the whole world, so i think it's really time to talk again about soil policy, about soil protection, about hummingbird protection. because without soil, everything will be nothing. one side effect is that we see what's being consumed by the soil, how it's being eroded, how it's being blown away, how bacterial life is decreasing. the same thing happens in our intestines. so the disease of the soil is also linked to our own disease in our gut, which is the largest ecosystem among humans. my minute is up. i would just like to make a point: please protect the soil and the intestines of all people.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. two key concepts must be at the forefront of this debate: accountability of member states and transparency for the public. as the commissioner has already pointed out, even in very politically sensitive areas which have a direct impact on the health and safety of citizens, such as the field of authorisations, genetic engineering or the authorisation of active substances containing pesticides, it is possible that member states simply do not express their views and that the decision is passed on to the commission. that's not satisfactory. this is not satisfactory, because the result is that the lack of transparency can lead to a different voting behaviour in the member states being communicated to the outside world than was actually the case, as in the case of the slogan: wash my fur, but please don't wet me. for these reasons i am very much in favour of the commission's proposals to improve the procedure: the change in the method of calculation, the mandatory appeal to the appeal committee and also the publication of the voting procedure in the appeal committee. i reject the suggestion made by some colleagues, and which we have just heard in this house, that the commission should withdraw the proposal and make a new one which is more acceptable to the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. finally, i would like to make it very clear to you, commissioner, that the european parliament wants to continue its work on this dossier. it is the council which is unfortunately blocked in this case and is apparently unable to take a decision on this essential question. i therefore appeal to the council tonight to finally take a position and preferably to agree to the commission's proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you very much for the amendment. the issues you have raised are definitely all important when it comes to a strategy for mobility and transport in the future, especially for the 2030 target and beyond. but i believe that this grand strategy is about more than just sustainability. it is about technology, it is about efficiency, and the title has been chosen in such a way that all our groups can also bring forward their various points of view on all the different modes of transport. in this sense, i think we should leave the title as it is and discuss it in its entirety. i would like to suggest that we not approve the motion.
in writing. yes, the rights of indigenous peoples must be a major concern for us in the european parliament. when land is stolen, we must not look away! in times of climate crisis, the greed of a few cannot destroy the livelihoods of millennia-old cultures. ultimately, we can learn a lot from indigenous ways of life through our environmentally damaging consumption patterns. now we must not only talk about protecting these people, we must act! let's start holding corporations and governments accountable. let's create transparency in global supply chains and commit them to respecting human rights. from the production to the consumer, neither man nor nature should suffer.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the paper the commission has put forward here is unfortunately neither very green nor a good deal. on the contrary, the implementation of this plan will put millions of jobs at risk without contributing in any significant way to the environment or climate protection. the commission is putting the economic foundations of almost 500 million citizens in question for nothing. i am particularly angry that the citizens and their needs are not at all taken into account in these high-flying plans of the commission. people need their car to get to work every day. they need their vehicles to make a living. and it is these millions of commuters that you are taking away with this project like the proverbial christmas goose. these plans are not only anti-economic, they are also anti-social. they make mobility a luxury.
madam president, dear colleagues, mobility is an indicator of wealth, opportunities and prosperity. mobility brings individuals and consequently europe closer together. mobility itself is not a problem - it’s quite the opposite. dear commissioner, our european transport system has to stay affordable, reliable and sustainable. and let me share three ideas on this: firstly, i think we all agree that our railway system can contribute to our shared goals. however, we need to cut red tape, to an enormous extent, we need to unleash competition and we need to tear down national borders. i know the commission is well aware and i know you are committed to solve this problem. but how exactly are you planning to proceed? secondly, for 20 years the average european household has been spending 13% of their monthly available income on mobility, while at the same time better technology reduced our co2 emissions by 25%. how are you going to ensure that the expenses for our citizens will say will stay the same in the future? and lastly, now i switch back to mother tongue. wir wurden nicht gewählt, um mobilität zum problem zu machen. wir wurden gewählt, um die probleme der mobilität zu lösen. seien sie sich sicher, frau kommissarin, in uns haben sie einen starken partner darin.
i have to say, madam president, the balkans are part of europe with all its contradictions, but above all with the many things they have in common. one of the things that they have in common is the great hope that young people in the region, in particular, have for europe. that means that we must encourage and support reforms, and that is what the new rules introduced today must do. the central issue is the rule of law, that is, the rule of law, media freedom, minority rights, a clean administration, a strong parliamentary democracy. but the rule of law is only strong if we succeed in removing all doubts about whether the rule of law is being respected within the european union, that is, if we have implemented the rule of law, the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary so strongly that we can set a good and strong example for everyone. i welcome the new rules that have been introduced: they are structured, clear and understandable. this must therefore also lead to the march council giving a green light - a green light - so that negotiations can and will be opened with north macedonia, which has undertaken such important and profound reforms, and with albania. this would be the strongest sign the balkans need.
i have to say, madam president, i will say this in advance: i will be voting in favour of this agreement. i am a strong supporter of free trade. free trade has always proved to be a win-win situation and a growth engine. this is particularly true of the links between europe and east asia. vietnam is also a particularly dynamic country in a very dynamic environment. vietnam's economic growth has been consistently above 5% since the 1990s, and infrastructure and legal security have also been greatly expanded in recent years. and vietnam is also particularly interesting as an export country for europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore to be hoped that this free trade agreement will also help to improve the human rights situation in vietnam.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. history has shown that trade and open markets create and secure prosperity. i come from a country with a 60% export quota, six out of ten euros are earned abroad, and every second job depends directly or indirectly on exports, and someone should tell me how we can continue to safeguard our social systems in the future without exports. the trade agreement with vietnam is indeed special because it has never been concluded in this form with a communist country in the process of emerging and because it will also be a door-opener for further agreements. it has a major political dimension, alongside the implementation of european standards, namely respect for fundamental rights. this is why mechanisms have been established to evaluate fundamental rights, as well as sanctions for infringements. the positive note - and mr lange has already said this - is that the labour law standards will be finally ratified in 2023. the political alpha wolves have no great interest in an economically successful europe, and it is therefore important that we continue our successful trade policy consistently with further agreements.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report is a mockery of the european parliament, to say the least. this report is a prime example of both a cover-up and a cover-up. the slight economic growth in the eurozone is presented as the result of the fatal low interest rate policy, although there is no evidence at all. the enormous losses suffered by savers in the euro zone need not be mentioned in this report. the increasing risks that institutional investors, such as pension funds, are taking are not covered in this report. the overheating of financial markets by loose monetary policy is not in this report. the growing social inequality caused by monetary policy not a word about it in this report. the growing public debt in the eurozone caused by monetary policy not a word in this report. i am reminded of the reports in the communist eastern bloc. it was always written in the form of a letter to the party leadership, and we all know full well what that led to.
in writing. judicial independence is the fundamental principle of the rule of law on which our european union is based. in poland we are watching with concern the systematic restructuring of the judiciary by the right-wing conservative government. the new law now largely abolishes judicial independence. this is a serious attack on the democratic rule of law in poland. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the polish authorities have not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the legal framework for the application of the acquis is in place. we cannot allow ourselves to be pleased with that, because polish courts are european courts. the european court of justice has made it clear in many judgments that the design of the judicial systems in the member states must be in line with eu law and european values. i would like to emphasize that all people in europe have the right to the best possible, confident and independent courts. the success of the new commission as guardian of the treaties will ultimately be measured by the defence of the rule of law in europe.
madam president, we heard wonderful speeches earlier so let me boil down the discussion to the essence. as an it entrepreneur and as a woman, i was more than once on the receiving end of well-intended advice. however, after 15 years, my employees and my company are proving, day by day, that digitalisation is creating jobs and securing jobs. needless to say, it also affects very traditional crafts and industries. in my constituency, tyrol, a carpenter saw these chances, instead of worrying about the risks, and switched the entire production line from analogue to digital. against all the fearmongering we heard in the past, he did not have to fire his workers. quite on the contrary, he increased his market share and his workforce. this is the point of view that the economy has and politicians need.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was there twice myself. the humanitarian situation at the croatian eu external border with bosnia remains dramatic, in particular the situation of unaccompanied minors. the local population and local politics are overwhelmed by the situation and rightly feel betrayed, sold out and abandoned by the eu. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. this head-in-the-sand is doing far more damage to the eu than brexit ever could, because it is destroying eu oversight. please ensure that the humanitarian emergency is de-escalated as necessary, especially the children who need to be evacuated, and that there is independent monitoring of the incidents at this border. finally, create a common european asylum system of solidarity without mistreatment and illegal pushbacks. there are only real solutions based on human rights. the eu must finally act professionally, otherwise we will lose our last credibility.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. you have pointed out the different legal basis for the treatment of refugees and migrants that is correct. but the question is: do migrants still have human rights and fundamental rights, or are they not migrants, but only refugees?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i'm glad we're talking about farm to fork today, because it's important. we know we have immense problems, otherwise we wouldn't all be sitting here. this strategy is a historic opportunity to make the cap more sustainable, more climate-friendly, to finally promote the fight against the collapse of ecosystems, to put animal welfare, animal health and soil health at the centre. these are the issues we're all here to talk about. the science is telling us to do it, and the public is telling us to do it. it may be the last chance to really reform the cap. of course the farmers are afraid, yes. but to entrench ourselves in a carriage-carry mentality and say, "what about us, what about us?" and not be part of the solution and be innovative and brave and not afraid of change, that's not going to get us anywhere. we cannot just sit back and say, 'this is how we've always done it, this is how it's done.' we know that's not true. we're at an impasse, we have to change. and we must not only focus on the farmers, who are facing a wall and are currently destroying themselves, but we must also restore the dignity of the farmer, we must have confidence in him. i don't want support, i want help to transform, i want help to my own dignity, to fair food prices, that my profession is honored again and that i can live independently of subsidies. that is why the cap needs to be reformed. and now i have a question for you, mr wojciechowski: the case law of the european court of justice (c-409/13 paragraph 74) shows that the commission has the right to adapt its own legislative proposal during the co-decision procedure until the council has taken the final decision. do you intend to use this essential element of the cap, this opportunity to bring the cap proposals into line with the ambitions of the green deal? it has to happen.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i expect the farm-to-fork strategy to provide a holistic approach to sustainable food production. these include farmers, consumers, the processing industry, food chains, food safety, animal welfare, environmental protection, mandatory climate action including biodiversity conservation and much more along the entire value chain. the aim is to reduce the use of pesticides, fertilizers and antibiotics considerably in the future. it's about a circular economy and reducing food waste as well. and we need a different approach to trade agreements and to imports of genetic engineering into europe. the commission has a very important political role to play here. it is about credibility in all policy areas.
i have to say, madam president, if 11 000 children in madagascar and 150 million worldwide are suffering from illness or even death, including for our consumption, then this is also a failure of europe. i therefore urge the council to give the commission a clear mandate as a matter of urgency so that it can play a constructive role in the ongoing un negotiations for a binding convention on transnational corporations and the development of real solutions. i am very sorry, by the way, that the council is not taking part in the debate today. on a voluntary basis, it still does not work to keep global supply chains free from child suffering and exploitation. so we need commitment, rules and sanctions. the unconditional ban on child labour must finally become a mandatory condition of our international trade relations, because it is hypocritical to talk about children's rights one day and adopt exploitative trade agreements the next. the focus on profit must be behind the protection of children's lives, health, education and well-being.
i have to say, madam president, the coronavirus is testing our societies around the world. it will show how we manage to deal with this pandemic. it'll also show what all our contingency plans are worth. it will also show how well we can deal with the negative side effects of this pandemic: how to avoid panic and hysteria without acting passively. how can we give the population a sense of security without imposing excessive measures? how do you keep the economy and the supply alive? in short: it will show how resilient our modern, globally connected society is. but what we can already see is that the european parliament has not passed this test. the second largest democracy in the world is a haven of unplannedness, of quick-fire and, unfortunately, of double standards in the face of this threat. on the one hand, staff are told to stay home at the slightest sign of a cold, local staff are not allowed to travel at all, and visitor groups are asked to leave. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and then we're allowed to hear the president at the opening of the meeting, we're supposed to keep a meter apart. instead of - and this is the crowning - of us dealing with this pandemic in committees, everything is cancelled except for one thing: a hearing on climate action. so this is really a double standard. president sassoli has failed in this situation, it must be said. i hope that our national parliaments and our national governments will do a better job of dealing with this threat.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the good news is that we do not have to choose between closing our borders with violence and violations of human and fundamental rights or opening them and allowing tens of thousands of people to enter europe without control and registration. what is needed is a consensus among the member states that it is not the security forces with tear gas and batons who decide who is protected in europe and who is not, but officials trained in procedures based on the rule of law. it is also about the eu finally standing in solidarity and action with greece, not only in protecting the borders but also in providing people with proper care, speeding up procedures, taking out those most in need of protection and thus countering all attempts at blackmail with humane solutions. and it's only when we do all of this that we'll have learned from 2015.
in writing. we are living in a state of emergency and facing major challenges. the eu has entered crisis mode and we in the eu parliament are also continuing to work and do everything we can to contain the covid-19 crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. what are the other things to consider? if we look at hungary and orbán wants to rule by decree in the future, we can see how democracy is slowly being destroyed with the corona excuse. the eu must respond with all the clarity and all the force it can muster. in many member states there have already been massive waves of redundancies. in addition to national measures, the eu must also raise money, help businesses and, above all, support the many workers. we must ensure that jobs are not lost now. the fight against the virus must be a joint effort by everyone in the eu. it is a matter of better coordination and a concerted approach. i therefore propose a dedicated eu corona officer.
in writing. the corona crisis is the worst crisis we have been in since 1945. the european union must now, more than ever, respond with solidarity, cohesion and democracy. we need the best possible european coordination and european funds. i'm pleased to announce that today we will release billions of dollars in vital aid to help fight the coronavirus. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. at the same time, we know that the crisis is particularly hard on those who have no choice and will continue to do so. already many people have lost their jobs. in order to mitigate the economic consequences, short-time working models and direct payments need to be supported. the main problem is that those who do the so-called system-maintenance jobs - mostly women - must receive a sustainable increase in pay. the crisis must not be used to damage our democracies and to erode or even abolish fundamental rights. we must be vigilant as the european parliament and always and over and over again pay attention to the proportionality and the time limit of restrictive measures. only if we succeed in preserving and consolidating our democracy in these difficult times can we say that we have overcome this crisis.
in writing. the european union is facing the greatest economic crisis in its history. in order to counter these, i am voting today in the european parliament for emergency aid in the billions. this financial support for our european economy is right and necessary. however, we must ask ourselves how we can finance these aid packages in the long term without passing the cost on to the most vulnerable members of our society. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. €825 billion of tax money is lost to the eu every year through tax avoidance by large multinational corporations and tax fraud by criminal schemes by individuals - this must end. this money could not only finance the urgently needed emergency aid for the next few years, but also make it possible to make the necessary investments, for example in health care or climate protection. we must finally take concrete measures at european level to close european tax loopholes and work together to stop the methods of the fraudsters. i therefore call on the commission to act and take concrete steps to prevent tax avoidance in the eu. the way out of the crisis must not be a way back into tax avoidance!
in writing. the use of tracing applications to contain the pandemic can be quite useful. apps like this can help us determine more quickly who's infected and who that person has been in contact with. this will allow us to act more efficiently and disrupt infection chains more quickly. but one thing must be absolutely clear about these tracing apps: the protection of privacy and fundamental rights is paramount to any benefit that such applications may bring. when i hear politicians in europe talking out loud about making the use of these applications compulsory, i wonder if some colleagues have forgotten their own data protection rules. the protection of privacy and personal data is a fundamental right and must not be sacrificed to this crisis, particularly in view of the sensitive nature of information. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are respected, and that the application of the rules is not restricted to the member states. the data protection authorities responsible must ensure that this is indeed the case. because only if citizens can rely on their rights being protected will they trust and use such applications.
i have to say, madam president, while millions of people in europe are worried about their jobs, do not know how to finance the next month, how to feed their families, while millions of people are worried about their livelihoods, this parliament is being called to a meeting that costs tens of thousands of euros. and for what? this is not a budget debate. the budget doesn't exist yet. we do not have the budget, it is a phantom budget. that's not the point. it is simply a matter of giving a platform to a commission president who has no plan at all. today's meeting is for the sole purpose of president von der leyen's self-expression. and thousands and thousands of euros are being thrown away in the middle of the eu's biggest economic and health crisis. the key is two things: firstly, the debt union is to be achieved by redistributing assets from north to south. and secondly, the dream of all eurocrats is now to be realised: own eu taxes to deprive the national parliaments of their budgetary sovereignty. that's the goal! they don't want to fight the crisis. you want to use the crisis to achieve your goal of a superstate governed from brussels.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has plunged the european union into the deepest crisis in its existence, as we now head towards the biggest recession in over 70 years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the reconstruction plan presented today is an important element in this process. he makes it clear that this crisis is also an opportunity. a chance for a stronger, greener and more united europe - in short, a better europe of the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must finally move away from the wrong and harmful austerity policy following the last crisis and towards a european solution based on solidarity. however, the reconstruction plan can only be the first step. europe will need more aid packages in the future, and to finance all this, the eu will finally need more own resources. plastic taxes, carbon taxes and digital taxes are just a few of the many ways this can be done. we must finally ask the companies that pollute our environment and those that pass their income through the tax authorities to pay. because they must be the ones who end up funding these programmes and not - as so often happens - the european citizens.
in writing. on may 25, 2020, 46-year-old george floyd was brutally murdered. the policeman who knelt on his neck for over eight minutes, taking his breath, was only arrested after massive public pressure. floyd's only "crime" was being black in the united states. george floyd is just one of many names that disproportionately affect the number of black americans who die from police violence every year in the united states. but we in europe are also living with two pandemics: the covid-19 crisis and the ongoing pandemic of racism. it is a question of the future of europe. and we politicians must also be aware: in today's world, each of us must take responsibility and actively work to be anti-racist. because silence and inaction only support racist structures and "habits" that are still present today. politics must not shirk its responsibilities! as long as there are racist nationalist policies that target minorities, migrants and refugees, this contributes to a structure of suffering. #blacklivesmatter is more than a hashtag, it is activism for a more livable, fairer reality for our fellow citizens of dark skin. it is not just words that are needed, but measures such as mandatory anti-racism education for all those responsible. #blacklivesmatter. #blacklivesmatter is a term that means - today. i'll see you tomorrow. every day.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not unfortunately, tourism is the sector most affected by the crisis, and it is therefore very regrettable that commission president von der leyen did not say a word about tourism in her speech today. what is needed now to help the enormously important tourism sector in particular, but also the transport sector, which is vital for europe in general, to get back on its feet, is on the one hand unbureaucratic financial aid which actually reaches the companies. on the other hand, it is also fatal, especially now, if the commission insists on particularly strict compliance with climate objectives in this area. the green deal will prove to be a massive handicap for transport - particularly in this area - and for tourism too, unless major changes are made. instead of continuing to beat the tourism and transport industries, the commission should start to give financial aid and to build a high-performance network that is also environmentally friendly.
in writing. it is no secret that brazil is illegally deforesting the amazon rainforest for the benefit of agricultural agro-factories. since the beginning of 2020, more than 2,000 square kilometers of forest have been cleared. that is 34% more than last year and an embarrassing world record! if we see an increase in beef exports, brazil will create more land for cattle farming. it is therefore clear that deforestation is linked to the mercosur trade agreement. why the commission and many member states are indirectly supporting this deal and thus the illegal rooting is a mystery to me. this is contrary to the eu's values and image, especially now that the green deal has become the label of the european union and the commission has set the ambitious goal of making europe the first climate-neutral continent. as a young person, one of my main concerns is to leave the earth a good place for all to live. if the clearing continues in this way, it will harm the environment and the climate in the long term. if the fires continue, we must act together to stop them. we cannot stand by and watch the rainforest burn to the benefit of mercosur products.
in writing. together making europe strong again. under this motto, the german presidency of the council wants to lead europe out of the crisis and into a positive future. there's a lot to do. the first priority must be the european recovery plan, which includes climate change, and the continuing european response to the pandemic. but there are also big challenges that come alongside the covid-19 crisis. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and immigration, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and immigration. the european union is also committed to the development of a european security and defence policy. both will be crucial in the above-mentioned areas as principles in building an asylum system that respects the fundamental and human rights of all, in tying eu funds to respect for the rule of law, in a digital transformation that puts the social aspect of digitalisation at the centre, and as a guide for a future conference that sets the stage for ever closer european cooperation. in all this, fundamental rights and cohesion must be the basis of all action. so that we can live in a more just and united union in the future, and so that after the next six months we are not just two catchwords!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is an issue that is equally supported by all political actors in the eu, regardless of ideological orientation - or so it should seem. however, when you look at the commission's action plan on combating money laundering and terrorist financing and when you know that the european court of justice has declared that transparency requirements imposed by member states on such ngos are illegal, you learn something better. this preference for the ngos, which are well connected in brussels, is really striking. the reason for this preferential treatment is that it is not desirable to give the impression that these organisations are engaged in illegal activities, despite the fact that virtually all relevant sources indicate that these organisations are at risk in the fight against money laundering and despite the fact that is and other terrorist organisations have used such organisations to raise funds. the commission and, unfortunately, the european court of justice are putting the security of citizens at risk.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in my minute i focus on turkey because it is systematically breaking international law and destabilizing the entire region. as we are sitting here, turkey is occupying several regions of northern syria and the kurdish women who remain there, especially religious minorities such as the yazidis, are being terrorized. we are holding a meeting here, and turkey is intervening unilaterally in the libyan civil war, setting in motion a spiral of violence. we are discussing this and turkey is openly threatening the eu member states, cyprus and greece. europe is watching a country with domestic problems try to override them with an increasingly aggressive foreign policy, which tramples on human rights and increasingly destabilizes the region. equally important to me is that the human rights we demand from others must also be respected by ourselves. only then can we make a credible international demand for respect for human rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is not a party to the conflict. no, actually erdoğan has already moved away from european values and also from human rights and international law. the european union is also calling for the release of the political prisoners, and for the release of the political prisoners. but also by inciting right-wing mobs in the streets of europe, as for example recently in vienna, when the grey wolves were also sent out by erdoğan. and in foreign policy, by turkish air strikes on syria, on sinjar, on the kurds, by the turkish navy, which is aggressively moving against cyprus, but also in libya. we must therefore not only ask ourselves whether turkey can continue to be a partner in nato and the council of europe, but also whether sanctions are not appropriate, even if the accession negotiations are interrupted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. regional policy is the heart of the european union, just as cultural and educational policy should be its brain. it makes europe felt in our home communities and in our home towns. it is more than remarkable that more than one third of all the jobs created in the last period of support are due to regional policy. our regions are facing major challenges. this crisis cannot be tackled with the best of intentions without a committed cohesion policy. the new tasks and challenges, indeed needs, cannot be met without the appropriate financial resources. in an ambitious eu budget, the regional development funds must be given a decisive boost and increased. only then can we successfully tackle the important issues of the future, such as digitalisation, climate protection and crisis management. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. every improvement in the regional policy will increase economic growth, create jobs, enhance the credibility of the european union and thus guarantee our common future in a united europe of the people.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. as a former mayor, i know what is done in our regions and communities on a daily basis. with a lot of heart, passion, love and hard work, my colleagues all over europe are working to lay the foundations for a home and to counter emigration. but they need support. the framework conditions must be appropriate and the financial resources allocated. that is why i still find it incomprehensible that you are still not prepared to put forward proposals for a transitional period. we must not leave any region of europe behind. that is what will happen if we do not act. we must tackle basic problems such as cutting red tape with determination. the flexibility of the corona investment initiatives has helped, but may have been just the beginning. so i ask you to act quickly to ensure that 'the regions of europe', the backbone of our society, are not just empty words.
in writing. eu heads of state or government have reached agreement on the reconstruction fund and the multiannual financial framework. as much as europe needs this rapid agreement, the result is disappointing in the end. the sum of the grants is well below the proposals of the commission and the european parliament and thus far from the scale of the crisis. not only has the scale of the reconstruction programme been reduced, but the cuts to the rule of law, the green deal, health and research have made an ambitious programme for the future an insufficient 'compromise'. that's disappointing, and i'll be honest, we expected more. i am convinced that we are in the midst of the greatest recession in the history of the european union, and that this recession would require much more than a minimal compromise. we must now show strength as the european parliament and call for further negotiations. the resolution we are debating provides a good basis for making it clear to the council that this is not the time to compete over who is doing the least to help resolve the crisis, but the opposite. when, if not now, is the time for joint ambitious european action? the citizens of europe expect a europe that lives up to its historic responsibilities. we can't let them down.
a writer. mr president, distinguished representatives of the council and the commission. i should like to begin by apologizing to mr buşoi, who is unable to be present today, and therefore i can address this question to the council and the commission on behalf of the committee on the environment. on 11 march 2019, the commission adopted its communication entitled 'a strategic approach of the european union to medicinal products in the environment'. in accordance with article 8c of the priority substances directive, this strategic approach should be followed, where appropriate, by proposals for measures to be taken at union and/or member state level to address the potential environmental impact of pharmaceutical substances and thereby reduce discharges, emissions and losses of these substances into water, taking into account public health needs and the cost-effectiveness of the proposed measures. the communication identifies six areas of action and several specific activities related to possible actions: to increase awareness and promote prudent use of medicines, to support the development of medicines that are less harmful to the environment and to promote more environmentally friendly manufacturing, to improve environmental impact assessment and verification, to reduce waste and improve waste management, to evaluate environmental monitoring and to address other knowledge gaps. i therefore ask you to allow me to address the questions to the council first: in its conclusions of june 2019, the council invited the commission to assess and identify common actions, including own-initiative actions, to mitigate the environmental impact of medicinal products and to combat the development of antimicrobial resistance and, in this regard, to strengthen the contribution to the health sector. so the two questions: what is the council's position on the strategic approach and the measures outlined by the commission? secondly, what legislative and non-legislative measures does the council intend to support in order to reduce the risk of medicinal products in the environment? the second question to the commission: there is sufficient evidence that action should be taken rapidly to reduce the risk of medicinal products in the environment. the two questions: what legislative and non-legislative measures does the commission intend to take to reduce the risk of medicinal products in the environment? secondly, what is the timetable for these measures?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not understand at all that turkey is still a candidate country for eu membership. i also find it incomprehensible in principle that an asian state can be a candidate for eu membership. it is also completely incomprehensible that a state which threatens another eu state with war can be a candidate for accession. and it is absolutely incomprehensible that this oriental despotism is not only sponsored by the eu with billions of euros through so-called pre-accession aid, but is also able to blackmail the eu. now that two eu members are directly threatened with war, where is the european, the much-vaunted european solidarity? the eu is exercising a polite restraint. unfortunately, there is a lot of talk in the eu about serious and painful sanctions against this political group on the bosphorus. that's sad, because this cuddle class is not gonna impress this self-proclaimed sultan. where the eu is called upon to show strength, it fails. that is sad.
the commission has already done so. alexei navalny was poisoned for denouncing the abuses in russia. navalny was to be silenced, and with him the criticism and the contradiction and the opposition were to be poisoned. opposition figures are often eliminated in russia, but the voice of the opposition could not be completely silenced in regional elections, for example, and that is a good thing. democracy is a weak plant in russia and should be strengthened. in novosibirsk, at least, "united russia" suffered losses. but - and i think this is very important to emphasize - even if attempts are made to poison and remove oppositionists from the way, the desire for democracy, the struggle for democracy cannot be poisoned.
mr president, madam president of the commission! covid has really changed a lot in the last year. but it has also been a flashpoint for the problems of the european union, which have become more acute. the social divide is growing: hundreds, thousands, millions of people on our continent have lost their jobs, are unemployed. the tax burden of workers is increasing, while the tax burden of large corporations remains very low due to tax schemes and tax havens, and profits on the other hand are rising massively. the rule of law is being ignored. it is the governments of hungary and poland which are destroying the fundamental rights of europe and are gradually destroying them in their own countries. we have to take action here. migration shows that we are not creating a common approach. it is a disgrace to moria that individual governments here in europe continue to block. we have to change that. i think these are the issues that we need to change next year, together.
in writing. my personal conclusion after president ursula von der leyen's speech here in the plenary on the situation in the union: the situation is serious. although the commission president spoke highly of the eu, there is no denying the problems facing our union, both at home and at its external borders. while the clear promises of an anti-racist union, equal rights for lgbti people and a human rights-centred foreign policy made in the speech have given hope, the half-hearted declarations of urgently needed asylum reform and equally urgent conditionality on the disbursement of eu funds have failed to convince that these words will actually be followed by action. clear words were used in the pleas for strengthening borders, improving returns and combating trafficking, while i sorely missed those on the protection of human rights for refugees or the rule of law. in the end, mrs von der leyen's speech was like the state of the union itself: full of light and shadow. the european union is a great opportunity to build a better, more social and more united union in the future if we seize it. but it is also full of problems which, if we do not face them with courage and a european spirit, will test our union to the limit.
madam president, i visited moria this time last year – 12 months ago – and you can’t help but be struck by the astonishingly poor conditions. i’ve been to lots of refugee camps around the world, and these are the worst conditions i’ve seen. i was struck by the violence, by the children who can’t get an education, by the sanitation, and by the smell of the camp. when you walk in, you can’t believe that you’re on eu territory. it has got worse in the last 12 months. now we’ve had this fire, and covid-19 on top of it. i have some hope, though. i have some faith listening to president von der leyen giving her excellent speech yesterday, when she talked about a progressive migration and asylum pact. i have faith in chancellor merkel – notwithstanding the group of the european people’s party’s (ppe) continuing tolerance of mr orbán – that we can build a safe and fair europe that welcomes those who are fleeing for their lives and those who are seeking a better life. i would like to go back to moria. i cannot do so, but it is as much about the people in the camp as it is about us and the people we aspire to be, and the values we aspire to protect.
i have to say, madam president, everyone knows that the problem of refugees and migrants is not going away. we also know that it will increase. the vast majority of refugees are and will remain in their neighbourhoods, but many - and probably more now that we are starting to see climate refugees in earnest - will be heading towards europe, and we have a legal obligation to treat them properly. climate action in areas affected by natural disasters, emergency aid for war victims and development aid in low-income countries are working and need to be strengthened, but are far from solving the problem. we will have many more to come and we will have to develop common strategies in the eu. anyone can join, including my own denmark, which i'm not very proud of right now. what is at stake now is not the risk of the eu being flooded by foreigners, it is our values, our humanity. if we do not protect it and extend a helping hand to our fellow humans in need, including by accepting them, we are in far greater danger. if there is no compassion and mercy in a society, it becomes a grim place to live. and remember, no one can help everyone, but everyone can help someone.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is distressing, it is shocking, what happened in the refugee camp of moria. and quite frankly, it is a disgrace to the european union that such conditions can exist in europe at all. this has not been known since the fire, it was known before. and we have not yet averted the moral bankruptcy of europe. the situation in moria is another humanitarian flashpoint in europe. but it's not just about migration. there are many fires. they are reinforced by corona, and they are more: the high unemployment, the growing social inequality and the resulting hopelessness of the people. we need - and i expect this if we are to implement the speech by ursula von der leyen - the overall package that is being presented to us: aid on the ground - outside the borders of the european union - effective external border protection, an agreement with third countries, burden-sharing and a european asylum and migration policy that is worthy of the name and that is in keeping with the speech by ursula von der leyen.
i have to say, madam president, the terrible and untenable conditions in the greek refugee camps have been known for so long, and for days now some have been watching with complete impunity as families with children have to sleep and live in the forests, on the streets, in the dirt, after this devastating fire. i am writing to you every day from young europeans who, like me, do not want to accept that this is europe, that these are our values. i am also ashamed of austria, a country governed by conservatives and greens, for refusing to take in even children. there can be no more moria in the future. we must also make the greek government pay. europeans, citizens of the union, expect their taxpayers' money to be used to implement humane european policies. we need a european authority in the future, we need a european asylum and migration system, we need european values to be lived!
mr president, as we look to the year 2020, we have to admit that this is an atypical year and a very challenging year. and as we look to this year, we have to keep in mind two things: firstly, we delivered this year for the people of europe, and secondly, people outside of the eu, outside of our 27 member states, are looking up towards the european union, towards the eu institutions, and they have high expectations of us. firstly, on what we delivered, one thing is clear: people expect results from the european union. we got our act together during the crisis, we provided concrete results and now we are finalising negotiations to provide the biggest financial support to member states, which are in need of eur 750 billion. this is important, this is not small, this is concrete, and this will help overcome the crisis and make the lives of people better within the member states of the european union. it will modernise the economies, it will make them greener, more digital, more innovative, it will provide for stable and well-paid jobs in the future. outside of the european union, people are looking towards us with expectations and i want to say one thing very clearly: in order to live in stability and safety within the european union, we need to be surrounded by countries which are safe and stable, and for stability, rules are essential and values are essential. this is why we need to stand up for the defence of european values also in the countries in our immediate neighbourhood and we should use all the tools that we have available to defend eu values in countries which are our immediate neighbours.
mr president, two messages to the council, which, by the way, is still missing. time is of the essence, the pandemic is still hitting and citizens and businesses need the funds to arrive now, so we need to reach an agreement as soon as possible. remember that parliament is a co-legislator; negotiate, do not try to impose your agreement. we cannot respond to the covid-19 crisis with an institutional lockdown. tomorrow, the spanish government will present an ambitious recovery plan to overcome this crisis, modernise society and give hope back to our young people; a plan with absorption capacity and effective and transparent management, in line with our traditional compliance with european standards. the fair digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality will be its main axes. secondly, relations with africa. while we are debating this, many migrants are still risking their lives on the high seas. these states must put resources into ensuring rescue and salvage at sea. let us show our citizens and our african neighbours that the migration pact is really a fresh start.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. across europe, infection rates are picking up again. what is surprising to the citizens of the union is that the governments of the member states have not been able to agree on a common strategy during the summer recess. the result is a jumble of rules, where even the most sophisticated don't know what they're doing. do you need a negative test? do you still have to go to solitary? is it two, four, five, ten, fourteen days? who put who on the red list and why? i think that the european union's leaders here fail to realise that the reality of life for so many people is now a very clearly european one. we live, we work across borders; there are existences in border regions that depend on the borders remaining open. i call on the council to do its work here for the citizens of the union and to create uniform rules, otherwise it will be the union's fundamental freedoms that will be the next victim of this pandemic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the climate crisis is ubiquitous, and we face it every day. that's a fact. but the only way to solve this problem is to reduce fossil fuels and to eliminate them from our system in the long term. but in forestry we can react at any time now. we are ready to contribute with our know-how and the growing resources at our disposal. we need active, multifunctional forest management in a sustainable way, taking biodiversity into account. our forests must be managed in such a way that they can absorb as much co2 as possible from the atmosphere. it is a completely wrong approach and a misconception to assume that we could increase co2 uptake by outsourcing and other restrictions. less forestry in europe is a concept that we are putting off future generations. we have to stop that. europe has enough wood; it is growing steadily and it should be used wisely. let's talk about wood-based building campaigns, biomass plants, wood-gas and wood-diesel: all the possibilities that the forest already offers us. let us also talk about over three million jobs in europe! strengthening the countryside and the regions means countering emigration! the forest can do all that. let us not make populist statements which are certainly not going to move us forward at the moment, but which will only bring us to a standstill. that is why we support this report.
i should like to inform members that due to the partial unavailability of interpreters from ireland because of the travel limitations, there will be no interpretation from and to gaelic guaranteed today from 16.15 until 17.15.
i have to say, madam president, the european climate law is the first big and important step towards climate neutrality. it is also an acknowledgement of reality, which is bleak, but not hopeless. we need to move from the goals now to really bold implementation steps so that we're going to achieve climate neutrality. we need a smart carbon offsetting mechanism to prevent us from just shifting emissions to other countries, because ultimately we're going to have to protect the climate globally. and just because we have a nice statistic in europe, we will not have saved anything. we need to include road transport and buildings immediately in emissions trading so that it also becomes a powerful tool, and we need to harness the full potential of technological innovation and also make energy storage a priority if we are to make the energy transition a reality. i think if we set a bold emission reduction target, we can pat ourselves on the back for a day, but then tomorrow we have to get back to work. it is only now that it is beginning and there is still some persuasion work to be done in the council.
i have to say, madam president, when it comes to demands for ever stricter climate targets, the eu institutions, political groups and ngos are outperforming almost on a weekly basis. the only group not mentioned is the citizens of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. in my home country, austria, a study has calculated that the implementation of your objectives will lead to a very real additional burden of eur 1 541 for each citizen. for mobility alone, 1 541 euro, for commuting alone. for eu bureaucrats with princely salaries, that's not much money; for ordinary citizens, it's a lot of money, and all this in the midst of the worst economic crisis in decades. the people are faced with unemployment, they do not know how to feed their families, and the european union's recipes are the destruction of industry, of jobs and the burden on the citizens. mr timmermans, you are not leading the eu into the abyss, you are leading it into the abyss.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. climate protection is a top priority for me as a young person, and the eu climate law is an important step. but if we're going to take climate action seriously, we have to think across continents and involve all continents, because this is a global responsibility. i do not think it makes much sense to call for climate protection on the one hand and for trade agreements such as mercosur on the other. we are not going to see thousands of hectares of rainforest burned and tens of thousands of ships carrying cheap meat to europe. we must finally start to rethink free trade, where climate protection plays a decisive role and where there is no danger of cheap imports for farmers or entrepreneurs. we have no reason to be proud of the fact that we in the eu are wearing a green mask, saying that we are the most climate-friendly continent, but that we are moving all production, whether food or steel, to other continents. that is not credible and does not contribute to climate protection. on the climate law, i would say that the co2 reduction targets set therein must be realistic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is better to set realistic, achievable goals that we can achieve and exceed than to set too high goals that we fail to achieve.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the caucasus, some 50 ethnic groups live side by side in very small areas, and the roots of many conflicts go back centuries. at the same time, the caucasus has been a playground for the neighbouring powers since ancient times. two thousand years ago, it was the persian and roman empires, and now it is mainly russia and turkey, but other powers are also involved. if you look for a culprit in this mess, you will find many culprits or none at all. of course, on the one hand, armenia will always see itself as the protector of the armenian ethnic group in the enclave of nagorno-karabakh. on the other hand, azerbaijan cannot, of course, stand by and watch 20 per cent of its territory being occupied by a foreign power for years beyond this enclave, in complete violation of international law. in addition to russia, which is equally to be criticised in this proxy war, turkey, under its sultan erdoğan, is also the main agitator of this conflict. i therefore ask you, and in particular the members of parliament, the members of the people's party and the social democrats: how long will you tolerate turkey as a candidate for eu membership? what is going to happen before you realise that turkey cannot be a partner for europe?
the commission has already done so. the conflict over nagorno-karabakh is a long-standing and also very complicated conflict. we are of course condemning the fighting that is taking place and we are also calling for an immediate ceasefire. the european union must be prepared to take action to prevent the further spread of the virus. what is needed is a solution that will make it possible for the various ethnic groups in the region to live together in a sustainable way. there is only a diplomatic and political solution to nagorno-karabakh based on international law. the minsk group is the international platform for these international negotiations and must therefore be used. all of us - armenia, azerbaijan, russia and, above all, the aggressive turkey - must ensure that the situation is de-escalated. it calls for an immediate ceasefire and a return to the negotiating table.
in writing. for over a week now, a new old war has been raging in the courtyard of europe and hardly anyone is talking about it. for the past ten days, there have been renewed armed clashes between armenia and azerbaijan. the object of the conflict is the nagorno-karabakh region. over 286 people have been killed in the fighting there so far - at least 46 of them civilians. the people of nagorno-karabakh have suffered for decades from this conflict, which is now reaching a sad climax. it is estimated that more than half of the approximately 75 000 inhabitants of nagorno-karabakh have already fled the fighting. if this continues, more people will be forced to leave their homes. in order to prevent these horrifying statistics from becoming ever more numerous, the people need a ceasefire immediately! both sides must cease hostilities and respect the 1994 ceasefire agreement. we also call on all foreign parties to end their interference in the conflict immediately. we cannot allow foreign aggressors like turkey to send mercenary troops from syria into the battlefield and continue to add fuel to the fire. instead, both parties must support the osce minsk group's initiative to resume negotiations as soon as possible. the aim is clear: to end hostilities, to protect human lives and to resume negotiations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union's environment agency has proved it again yesterday: europe's nature is under threat and biodiversity is still declining drastically. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take appropriate action to deal with it. the commission has already done so. we are taking decisions this week on the future direction of the common agricultural policy. the green deal, the biodiversity strategy or the farm-to-fork objectives are not contradictory to the eu's agricultural policy, no, they must be a strong part of it, as must animal welfare. sustainability must be a way of thinking and acting, and farmers must be active partners in this process. it is just as important that we as the european union become independent of food imports. the basic package is now on the table, and the three largest groups in this house have agreed to it, including a strengthening of the environment, ladies and gentlemen. we must not let that stand in the way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the community. in the coming days, ladies and gentlemen, we must support progressive proposals and make further improvements, particularly in the field of environmental and climate protection, while, of course, always keeping in mind the feasibility of the proposals for the farms. and then, as my group is of course very concerned, even in the case of the largest budget item, we must not forget the social aspect, it must be taken into account. the people must feel why the european union is there for them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the proposal for the future of the eu's common agricultural policy does have some positive aspects: the cap on support of eur 100 000 per holding. this is very welcome and will benefit the small regional farmers. the proposal to reduce cheap imports from abroad is also welcome, as it will benefit both consumers and domestic farmers. unfortunately, this proposal goes far beyond any sensible objective, particularly in the field of environmental protection. the green deal has clearly become something of a fetish for the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. and the only thing that is being discussed in public in the midst of the worst economic crisis since 1945 is the designation of vegan and vegetarian products and whether the veggie burger can be called a burger in the future. a pointless discussion, the likes of which i have never seen before pointless even for eu relations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the new common agricultural policy has three objectives which are equally important to me: climate and environmental protection, of course and naturally. but we must not forget that sustainable agriculture can only succeed if the money also reaches our farms, the farmers, and our family farms have a fair income. we must ensure that we can guarantee a high-quality and regional food supply. the new cap must therefore be balanced and must have an equal emphasis on environmental, economic and socioeconomic aspects. it's also about our quality of life. in austria, over 80% of farms are now participating in the voluntary agri-environmental programme öpul in the second pillar, the so-called rural development. i am referring to the example of the local farming community. these benefits, which some countries are already providing, must also be taken into account in the first pillar of the new ppp scheme. as a former mayor, however, i am also keen to strengthen the rural areas and regions. that's the socioeconomic component for me. it is about investment - from education to leader programmes to care for the elderly, let us not forget. and i do not want to let anyone deteriorate the cap we have. the common agricultural policy is for me a foundation of the european union which can withstand any crisis, especially now in this crisis we are facing together. that is why we have to make a compromise. and this compromise will hurt everyone a little, but it will be a success for us and a basis for us at home to be able to enter into the trilogue negotiations.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. there are fifteen thousand nuclear bombs in the world, and a single atomic bomb today has many times, ten times, the explosive power of those bombs dropped on hiroshima and nagasaki. with the nuclear arsenal that exists in the world, you could destroy the world 150 times over, and russia spent $10 billion in 2019, the united states spent $35 billion, and even france spent $5 billion on their respective nuclear arsenals. what i want, ladies and gentlemen, is a world free of nuclear weapons, and that requires a strong, functioning international control system. the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons is central, especially since the end of the inf treaty. the us and russia must restore dialogue on disarmament and arms control, including china, as soon as possible. and the goal of a world without nuclear weapons also includes creating a europe without nuclear weapons. a europe without nuclear weapons, but without nuclear weapons stationed by other powers. and that includes a nuclear-free middle east - that is also a very central concern of mine. and more efforts and implementation are needed to ratify the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, which was also initiated by my home country, austria. we must put more energy behind it. albert einstein, ladies and gentlemen, once said: man invented the atom bomb, but no mouse in the world would construct a mousetrap. let us work for a world without nuclear weapons.
in writing. what do ali beglov, pham nhat vu and zhang keqiang have in common? they are all wealthy, influential, have criminal records, and they are all cypriot citizens. they all bought their passports. it's all legal. the cost of a cypriot citizenship is 2.5 million euros. it's a little cheaper in malta or bulgaria. the six-figure sums are enough to buy an eu passport. the sums are paid by "investments" in the countries concerned. what exactly is being invested in and what are the conditions? i'm not sure. but it is clear who is using such programs: people like ali beglov, pham nhat vu and zhang keqiang. people who trade money for eu citizenship. a one-off payment for protection from foreign prosecution and for all rights as citizens of the union. anyone who tries to look into these programs may pay with his life. this is what happened to maltese investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia, who had been researching exactly this before her murder. the sale of these "golden passes" must finally come to an end! i am therefore pleased that the commission has now opened infringement proceedings against malta and cyprus. so that no one can buy their eu passport anymore and no one loses their life for it.
in writing. the eu budget for the next seven years is €1.1 trillion. including: eu coronavirus aid of €750 billion. that's a lot of money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am very pleased that we, as the european parliament, have been able to enforce the rule of law. our perseverance paid off. for the first time in eu history, eu funds will be bound by the rule of law under our pressure. we have not achieved everything as a parliament, but it must be said that this is a great and historic step. this will ensure that european funds cannot be used in the future to undermine or even destroy the rule of law.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the eu budget 2021 is different from the previous ones, as it is overshadowed by the coronavirus pandemic, the eu long-term budget and the new reconstruction plan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the financial resources are not there to make up for past failures in the member states, but they must be used to meet our defined objectives. investments in research, innovation, education, digitalisation, in the competitiveness of our european businesses, in the security of supply provided by our farmers, but also in general security, guarantee a high quality of life for our citizens and keep us on par with the other world powers. the rule of law as a guarantee of democracy must be the dna of the european union, and therefore a causal link between the allocation of funds on the one hand and the respect of our values is imperative. our strong european community of values is not invulnerable, as we unfortunately had to see in the terrorist attack in vienna last week. my sincere condolences therefore go out to the families and friends of the victims. protecting the european way of life, the european commission's mandate, therefore also requires a common european approach to right-wing and left-wing extremism and political islam. it is more important than ever to defend our european values, our system. i would like to ask you, mr president, to make it possible for us to take part in the debate in the region. it makes little sense for all the members of parliament to be pilgrimaging to the capitals now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe is suffering from the worst economic crisis since the eu was founded. europe is being plagued by islamist terror. europe is losing more and more competitiveness against china right now. you would think that a budget would take account of these enormous challenges. unfortunately, this is not the case in the eu. if you study this report on the 2021 budget, you will immediately notice some absolute absurdities. the commission is also proposing to set up a search and rescue fund to support search and rescue missions in the mediterranean. clearly, the lucrative smuggling business is not to be left entirely to criminals. it is easy to see who benefits from the money from such a fund. all these pro-migration ngos, they're obviously going to be funded again, probably so that the transfer of islamists to europe is not so burdensome. it's incredible! and especially after the attacks in france and austria, it's just crazy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. gender mainstreaming is particularly important for the many unemployed and for companies that are currently facing bankruptcy. it's really incredible. it's unbelievable what's in this budget. and what, of course, runs through this whole budget like a thread, is this green deal fetish. it is not at all clear whether we are deliberately destroying the most environmentally friendly industry in the world, namely the european one. as long as it's destroyed in accordance with the green deal. and the millions of unemployed people in europe will certainly be glad to spend their last euro on products from china and india. because this is the result of your green deal fetish. i would like to conclude by saying something that particularly annoys me. the eu wants to use these current crises, the corona crisis and the rampant islamist terrorism crisis, to exploit its agenda in all directions to expand. this is starting with the introduction of eurobonds, the debt union, the call for a health and social union, and the total surveillance of innocent citizens. this is unworthy of a liberal democracy and contrary to the european values which you have so often emphasized.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it also illustrates the dilemma of the green deal, which the eu has turned into a fetish. new and ever-expanding goals are being set, but it is not clear how they are to be achieved. it is also not clear how these objectives will be financed. just to illustrate the scale: the commission has already proposed a reduction of the amount of the aid to be granted to the coal industry. this is a total of 6.2 trillion euros in additional expenditure over ten years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are in the worst economic crisis since the second world war. the green deal will further weaken our economy, even destroying industry in some areas and 6.2 trillion euros will be shaken out of the sleeve! but squaring the circle is a piece of cake. i wonder if you have any idea what's going on in the rest of the world with all these fantasies. have you ever looked a little beyond the edge of your plate? africa is just beginning to industrialize, countless new coal-fired power plants are under construction or planned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. that is why these proposals are wishful thinking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is sad but true that this report shows that the situation of fundamental rights in europe is deteriorating further. so much we 've had to observe in the past few months: there is virtually no freedom of the press in hungary, and ngos are facing incredible repression. in poland, the independence of the judiciary is being progressively abolished and the rights of polish women are being further and further restricted. at our external borders, pushbacks and violence against asylum seekers are now a sad reality. the report shows that we, as the european parliament - and this is democracy - are consistently on the side of fundamental rights. what, if not fundamental rights and freedoms, is our european union? they form the foundation on which we stand and for what we are. it is precisely respect for democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law that is our legal and moral basis. and that is what we are making clear again with this report. one of the logical consequences of this is that we must not compromise on the linking of eu funds to the rule of law. we cannot and will not allow countries which have been systematically dismantling their rule of law for years and which seem to want to continue to do so to prevent this historic and so important rule of law mechanism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this latest appearance by president erdoğan in varosia, in the turkish-occupied part of cyprus, is just the culmination of a long series of provocations and aggressions by turkey against member states of the european union. the demand for secession of the turkish occupied part is of particular importance. this is a clear and direct attack on the territorial integrity of a member state of the european union. and if there is no clear answer from the european union as a whole, european solidarity is just a hollow phrase. i therefore call for an immediate end to the accession negotiations with turkey, and, of course, for the cessation of all payments to turkey, such as pre-accession aid and development cooperation funds. secondly, the threat of massive sanctions against every part of the turkish economy should not be immediately put to an end to the aggression. thirdly, turkey must finally recognise the territorial sovereignty of cyprus. if turkey is not prepared to do so, then all agreements between the eu and turkey, and especially trade agreements, must be terminated. it is high time that we finally showed the turkish aggressor our teeth. it is time for action, and when i say action i mean energetic and decisive action against a brutal and ruthless aggressor.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are facing major challenges: climate change, the social divide in our society, fighting the covid virus, rebuilding the economy and society after the covid crisis - and for this we must act together and quickly. but two governments in our member states are again threatening to veto it. the answer must be clear: europe will stand firm on the rule of law. europe is not a cash machine where you can simply withdraw the money for the destruction of the rule of law. the european union must not give in to the blackmail of warsaw and budapest. who benefits most from the eu budget and the multiannual financial framework? it's hungary, and it's poland! but the truth is that morawiecki and orbán are acting against the people of their countries. they are hurting the poles, they are hurting the hungarians. we are firmly committed to the rule of law mechanism, and we are firmly committed to the medium-term financial framework and the reconstruction fund.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the drug strategy is promising, but it's also long overdue, and the hat really burns. we have been struggling for years in europe with drug shortages and this is where the commission needs to make real progress. the number of medicines in short supply has increased more than twentyfold from 2000 to 2018. more than half of the medicines needed are unavailable, and patients have to wait long for vital cancer and pain medicines. the pandemic has exposed these appalling abuses even more. there was a shortage of protective equipment, medicines were simply not being delivered; there is a great need for action. the problem is that a lot of the drugs come from overseas. over 80% of active pharmaceutical ingredients come from asia, and 40% of medicines sold in the eu are produced in china or india. this often means long waiting times for patients, unnecessary additional burdens. it is very important here and my great appeal is to bring production back to europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's pharmaceutical industry is not left behind. commissioner, i ask you to set an example in procuring the covid vaccine, to ensure that it is produced in europe. the european pharmaceutical supply is important and must be a major community objective. this is particularly important here, and i ask you to take this into account in your drug strategy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not a year ago, europe looked with hope and confidence to ethiopia stable, rising, with great economic development, democratic development, progress in civil rights, efforts against corruption, free elections and a free press. the country has made an immense contribution to the peace and reconciliation process in east africa. these efforts were rewarded, and ethiopian prime minister abiy ahmed received the nobel peace prize. at the award ceremony, he made a very impressive statement to me: 'we want the horn of africa to become the horn of peace. we understood that our nations were not enemies, but instead we were victims of a common enemy called poverty. he called for equal rights and equal opportunities for all citizens of africa, and for the young population in particular to be heard. it calls for equality and social justice. that is as true today as it was a year ago. but less than a year later, the horn of africa is a powder keg. corona and a locust plague, coupled with climate change, are aggravating the overall political situation. the 700 000 refugees in ethiopia and the one million in sudan are the undeniable consequences of the conflicts in the countries of this region. now, we have the attack on the people of tigray, with an escalation of violence, with restrictions on civil rights and media freedom across the country. we have had to learn again and again what the effects of such conflicts are, how long it takes for the consequences of such conflicts to be overcome. our european history is also a clear example of this. it is therefore in europe's best interest that this conflict be resolved peacefully and immediately.
in writing. "the whole people are against this power", said a visitor to raman bandarenka's funeral. he died two weeks ago after an alleged brawl with a neighbor. at least that's the official report. however, eyewitness accounts and video recordings paint a different picture. bandarenka was taken to the police station after a verbal altercation between masked operatives. what happened there remains in the dark. but the consequences are clear: severe head-brain trauma, a sprained lower jaw, bruises and wounds on the face and legs - just a sampling of the findings in the intensive care unit. raman died because he was in the wrong place at the wrong time. he was arrested at the "place of change". a place of culture and hope, which has become a symbol of the resistance movement. lukashenko's regime wanted to destroy this place of hope and created a pilgrimage site. raman's death has fueled protests in belarus that have lasted over 100 days. this sunday thousands will demonstrate again and if nothing changes they will continue to be tortured and killed. people like you and me and raman bandarenka. that is why we have made it clear again today in the european parliament: we are on the side of human rights and democracy and therefore on the side of the belarusians.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 2021 budget is special for several reasons, as the negotiations were not only in the shadow of the coronavirus pandemic, but also in the shadow of the large package of linking the multiannual financial framework, new own resources, the reconstruction fund and the rule of law. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their cooperation. with a budget of eur 164 billion comparable to the overall budget of austria , it is important to achieve an efficient use of funds. research, innovation, transport, digitisation and energy are at the heart of our budget, because they ensure a competitive future. we must not make the mistake of putting the horse in the wrong saddle. one thing we must not forget: the green deal cannot fly without digitization and innovation. in addition to the right emphasis, i am of course concerned about the careful use of our citizens' tax money. i am glad that we have found a very sensible solution to the administrative expenditure of the ten institutions. i would like to thank commissioner hahn and the german presidency for the fact that we have managed to implement the budget on time, because this guarantees our citizens security and support.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. 1.2 million people - we heard - signed the european citizens' initiative, calling for the protection and promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity. they have succeeded in raising awareness of the fact that, in addition to the 24 official languages of the union, there are more than 60 regional and minority languages, which affect 40 million citizens of the european union. the citizens' initiative will only be successful if the resolution we are discussing today is followed by concrete action. a language is alive when it is spoken, and this requires educational institutions such as schools, kindergartens and, above all, mother tongue teaching. the media also need to be used, whether in books, newspapers, films, the theatre or television. however, without the support of european union funding programmes, this will not be possible. in austria - where the commissioner comes from and where i come from - the protection of minorities is of particular importance. minority rights are enshrined in the state treaty, and yet their enforcement has also been associated with conflict. and austria, on the other hand, has been committed to the rights of the german-speaking south tyrolean people. and so my conclusion is that what we demand of a related ethnic group in another country should be at least as self-evident for ethnic groups in our own country. we can thus help to prevent and end conflict and violence, and this is one of the founding ideas of the european union. we may come from different cultures and countries and speak different languages, but we should use a common language, that of our common values and the rule of law which underpins this european union. we should be fighting discrimination, and in this sense i support the aims of this initiative and, above all, its aim of enshrining minority rights in union law.
in writing. by joining the eu, all member states have committed themselves to respecting the rule of law as a fundamental principle. the eu is not just an economic community, it is a community of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. it was clear to all member states when they joined the eu that there are not only benefits, but also duties and responsibilities. for example, when governments attack the independence of those whose job it is to check the proper use of eu funds, such as prosecutors or fraud detectives, this becomes a problem. because we have no interest in money going into corrupt structures. what we want is for the funds to be used in the best possible way for the people. this is precisely what member states must ensure in order to receive eu funds. the rule of law mechanism will not automatically bring democracy back to hungary, poland and other countries in europe, but it will ensure that our funds can no longer be used unchecked to undermine democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. the rule of law is a great success for the citizens of europe. we expect the eu commission, as the guardian of the treaties, to start implementing this regulation fully and consistently as of 1 january 2021.
i have to say, madam president, clearly, based on the principle of hope alone, neither the eu nor the vast majority of member states have and have had a meaningful strategy to deal with covid-19. economies are going down the drain, and europe is stumbling from one lockdown to the next. so now vaccination is the miracle cure that our political failures see as their only hope. we can only hope for a half-effective vaccine before europe is finally bankrupt. but corona is not just a time of political failure. corona is also a time of the resurgence of authoritarian politics. the european parliament has already been given a mandate to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. that is why there are already calls for compulsory vaccination. i strongly disagree. vaccination is a remarkable medical achievement. so i really hope that we have a safe and effective vaccine. but the right to decide about one's own body and health must remain intact. the obligation to vaccinate, whether directly or indirectly, is incompatible with this fundamental right of every human being.
