madam president, in 1987 the australian rock band midnight oil had a worldwide hit with their song 'beds are burning', a denunciation of ecological disasters and a call for urgent action. the words, in connection with the sad news that affects us today, come to mind. how can we dance when our earth is turning? how do we sleep while our beds are burning? thirty years later, the tragic situation in australia foreshadows what the world will be like if the paris agreement is not strictly respected. what role for europe beyond solidarity? this year, europe is expected to conclude a free trade agreement with australia. it is therefore the time, if not the time, to make the sustainable development chapter binding on both sides. let's not forget that while australia ratified the paris agreement, several generations of climate-skeptical political leaders have supported the mining sector, which is the engine of the economy, but also and above all, responsible for the destruction of biodiversity, the denial of aboriginal rights and which has placed australia among the countries with the highest per capita co2 emissions. it is therefore time for the commission and commissioner hogan, in the context of the current trade negotiations, to do what is announced in the green deal for europe and to put in place ambitious climate and environmental diplomacy also through its trade policy.
madam president, who else knows this problem? over the years, we have all accumulated a bunch of different mobile chargers, and that’s not only because we switched brands. often newer models of the same brand also came with a different charger. what is the result? more than 51 000 tonnes of so—called e-waste per year, according to the commission estimates. the environment does not benefit from this. when we forget our charger, only people that have the same mobile phone can help us out so the consumer does not benefit from this either. only the industry does, some companies more than others, as we all know, because the larger part of the industry is moving towards usb c, but some stubborn pupils in the classroom keep on refusing. we cannot let the interests of private profit overrule the interests of our people and the planet. when what is good for the consumer coincides with what is good for the environment, we need to seize that opportunity. in conclusion, commissioner, please come forward with a sustainable solution as fast as possible. we have already lost too much time.
the gender pay gap remains a persistent challenge. by 2020, women still earn less than men, and the inequality is even more pronounced in retirement. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht. women are more likely to have part-time jobs, which automatically lead to lower wages. this puts them in a vulnerable position and puts them at greater risk of poverty. the reduction of the gender pay gap therefore presupposes the equal distribution of care tasks and also presupposes equal participation in the labour market: equal pay for equal work. the full implementation of the marianne thyssen work-life balance directive will therefore be of crucial importance. secondly, segregation in the labour market must be eliminated, both vertically and horizontally. breaking gender stereotypes and empowering women towards stem and digital sectors is the message. reducing the wage gap will make women stronger and more resilient.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must fight poverty and the precarious situation of the homeless and the 12 million poorly housed people in france alone. the european union has, however, contributed greatly to the worsening of this problem in many member states. the austerity policies that have been in place for over a decade are you. therefore, this disqualifies you completely from claiming to regulate the excesses of unbridled free trade and ultra-liberalism. and although it is difficult to rely on mr macron, who is obediently and zealously implementing your injunctions, the fact remains that in our opinion the legitimate way out of this infernal spiral can only be national. you said earlier that you were not competent, my dear colleague. yes, but you are responsible, and god laughs at men who mourn the consequences of their cherished causes.
mr president, the american-inspired 'housing first' programmes you are planning are neither new nor have they ever solved any problems. they are addressed to a small number of the millions of homeless and destitute people across europe, for whom, because of unemployment and the crushing wages of workers, decent accommodation in airbnb suites and expensive houses that exceed the toil of a lifetime is a luxury. the european union is shedding provocative crocodile tears for the homeless while, in the fourth post-memorandum review for greece, it extols the current and former government's stated target of 120 000 public housing auctions by 2021. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial institutions are able to compete with the european union's financial institutions. we demand a legislative ban on the auctioning of public housing and the seizure of bank accounts for salaries and pensions by the state, banks and funds. as has been shown, only a centrally planned socialist economy can make the roof a commodity and provide for the people's housing. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. i would be very interested, because what you have said here is of interest to me: if the situation in the housing market and also the homeless situation could be explained as simply as you have just done here, then i ask you if you can explain to me how it could happen that in countries where the troika has not decided, so to speak, where and how to save, this situation could have arisen in these places, if it is as simple as you have shown here.
answer to a question with a blue card. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the single market, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission in its efforts to promote the single market. the european union, which has been pushing all these anti-working-class measures, has been checking a people and at the same time has led it to auctions, which it has even set as numerical targets, talking about 120 000 by 2021, and even provoking and promoting persecutions and bans. so this is the policy of the european union not only towards these countries but also towards all the other countries.
mr president, homelessness is unacceptable. recent estimates even suggest that 700,000 people are homeless. housing first offers a unique opportunity to provide a roof over the head for homeless people, often with complex needs. there are many projects in various member states and this approach has proven to work in practice. already, many homeless people have been guided to a stable housing situation. it also creates opportunities to overcome health, mental and financial problems, to re-enter the labour market or to access education. a policy on homelessness goes beyond housing. health must also come first. will the announced child guarantee also reach homeless children, commissioner? the recommendations of the social protection committee on tackling homelessness are clear: a multidisciplinary approach across different policy areas. we must work on these recommendations urgently. we're counting on an ambitious plan.
president, mr prime minister, on behalf of the flemish delegation, i would like to focus on three of your very important priorities. one, choose a budget for the future, not a budget for the 20th century. so focus on innovation, on research and development, on digitisation. the world is not waiting for us. two, protect the civilian indeed. you're right to mention the rule of law, but also to focus on border security, accelerate, don't wait until 2024. secondly, a brexit with as few barriers as possible and as close cooperation as possible with our british friends. finally, i agree with your perspective on the western balkans. i think that the new mechanism that the commission is working on can provide a good basis, with clusters, with a dynamic process, merit-based. i wish you every success in your presidency.
madam president, the european green deal is the urgent and necessary response of the eu to climate change. it needs to be fair and just. and i want to thank the commission for including the road map on social europe in the present communication for that. but, most importantly, it needs to be financed. the just transition mechanism is meant to help regions which are having problems in transitioning because they are still very dependent on fossils. i just hope it will not serve to pay off regions which have simply been unwilling to take necessary measures so far, even if they perfectly well could have done so. vice-presidents, you are brokering a difficult deal with sometimes unwilling member states, but do not give up. you will have our full support. most importantly, and, in conclusion: make the funding conditional. member states which receive money should deliver. we need phase-out plans and binding national energy and climate plans.
the honorable chairman. europe has decided to respond to the climate situation, to climate change, and this is our green deal. the green deal has a price, and today we see and have before us the fund for equitable development. i'm all for being fair and decent to people and helping them out when they're in trouble. we're saving the mining sector, first and foremost. in slovenia, where i come from, we still generate about a third of our electricity from coal or lignite, so it is right that we help these regions. however, these regions will not be the only ones to pay the price of the green deal, and it is therefore right to envisage very concretely, in the light of the forthcoming financial framework, other needs and measures related to both new energy infrastructure, the transformation of sectors such as the automotive sector, as well as the other steel sectors and the like. it is right that we should not forget other policies either, and i expect that, as part of the adoption of the multiannual financial framework, we will have the full cost of the green deal on the table and that we will also find quality resources to cover this bill.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we set ourselves the right and necessary goals and we don't even know if they are ambitious enough. we also know that there is no single measure that will enable us to achieve these goals. we have to turn the screws on many construction sites and raise more money. so it's important that we know that we need 260 billion euros a year in new investment. i therefore welcome the fact that we are going to mobilise 1 000 billion euros over the next 10 years. we know that we need to invest more in research if we are to achieve technological leadership. so it is right that we create a fund for just transition, because there are disadvantaged areas. we also know that there can be social problems. if we want to achieve and stabilise social cohesion in this restructuring, we must put the social pillar in place in the european union. we have a lot of work to do, but we have to face this challenge.
i have to say, madam president, mr. vice president, i think we all agree that we need an energy transition, that we need fewer finite resources, that we need more renewable resources, and that we also need less carbon emissions. but i think the danger we face - and many of my colleagues here have told me this - is that we will end up as the european union that closed the coal mines, that depopulated the countryside and that ultimately contributed to the loss of jobs. and in this case, we can't tap, because a worker who has worked in the coal mine for decades will be relatively indifferent to the fact that we are creating new opportunities. it's not that easy for him. and that is why it is imperative that we take a forward-looking approach. we must promote biotechnology, we must promote renewable resources, and we must ensure that this just transition fund does not become a fund for shutdowns, for abandonment, for depopulation, but a fund for new technologies, for the future, for biotechnology and, ultimately, for rural landscapes.
madam president! the name of the just transformation fund itself suggests that the funds should be allocated efficiently, but also fairly. fairly, that is, in proportion to the social burden borne by regions that are moving away from coal and coal-fired power. and here the map of europe is very diverse. for historical reasons, it's rarely the fault of society, but more often the fault of those who rule. and that's why we have to be smart about the green berets: "yes, but". because europe is not only going to be green, it is also going to be competitive. because if europe is to lead the world, it must succeed, not fail. this requires a very strong financial backstop for many european regions. and that shield is just emerging. it's foggy out there. if the facts are convincing, then we can all say with one voice, "it's the weekend".
i just want to inform you in good time that i have 35 spontaneous word messages at the moment and that, given the time delay, is not possible under any circumstances. i'll be able to take a maximum of eight word messages to stay about halfway on schedule.
mr president, vice-president timmermans, vice-president dombrovskis, thank you for being here today to present the sustainable investment and fair transition facility. it is particularly important to bear in mind that, for the success of the just transition mechanism, we must immediately define the eligibility criteria based on the contribution of coal production to the region's gross domestic product and the speed of decarbonisation. in greece, the government, through its energy and climate plan, has already announced that it is trying to shut down coal plants by 2023, and yet greece's energy mix will not be coal-based in 2028. is the rate of decarbonisation a factor for eligibility to the just transition fund or not? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. they expect us here in strasbourg and in brussels to give them a fair perspective. replace their anxiety with a viable job. jobs that fit them, jobs for industry, jobs for energy. we await your answers.
mr president, in my remote northern england region, in a proud community, generations of men and boys slaved underground, mining for coal, and worked in iron and steel foundries, forging component parts for railways, factory ships and a thousand other products that helped to build our national infrastructure and generate trade, so i know exactly what happens when, with one fell swoop, an industry disappears, with no thought as to what might replace it. in post-industrial britain, under thatcher’s government, the skilled ironmasters and steelworkers of county durham were offered little more than precarious low-paid work on a factory production line, putting potato crisps into packets eight hours a day, five days a week, for example. these men – strong, decent, proud – became broken beings, emasculated, their loss of dignity obvious in their dull eyes and their spreading girth. what a difference it would have made to these men, to my community, if we had had a just transition fund. decent work confers a sense of dignity, of self-worth.
now, i have to say, you know, we've been over the hill. 35 people have signed up, and every other person i call isn't there. we'll write it down, otherwise the whole order, including the calls, will get mixed up. we're only wasting time if i have to keep asking who's here and who's not.
mr president, i have watched the presentation with great interest, but there are a few points which concern me. first, if we want a just transition, the question of public services is fundamental. now, on public services, you say that you will support the local authorities, but i wonder why we should not break with austerity right away: that would allow the public investment we need to avoid the closure of small railway stations. secondly, the question of social dumping. if you go out and talk to people, the first question will be social dumping. i see that in the communication you simply promise to apply the current european rules. do you really think that's enough for people? i don't think he is. finally, as regards employment, you say that you will support mainly large companies, if i understand correctly. the problem is that we've been doing this for years. they're given subsidies, they're given benefits in exchange for jobs, and what do they do? they pack up and they go. why would that change?
in writing. the green transition will affect all segments of our lives, and one of the most challenging sectors is transport. road and public transport are an integral part of our daily lives, so it is not a small question how these areas will change in the coming decades. one of the biggest sufferers of air pollution is the population living in cities and urban areas. modernization and decarbonisation of public transport can go a long way towards solving this problem. the european union must help member states, both financially and otherwise, to provide public transport for citizens that is clean, easily accessible and affordable. another important issue is access to alternative fuels across the european union. the development and deployment of alternative, clean fuels infrastructure in the member states is a prerequisite for a fair green transition in road transport. we need to focus on the lagging, less developed regions so that the green transition does not lead to new fault lines between the less developed and the developed regions. finally, it is important to say that the green transition can only be fair if we do not allow it to happen at the expense of european citizens, taxpayers. the biggest polluters have to bear the brunt of the burden.
in writing. the proposal for a european minimum wage, coupled with a new social action plan, is an important step forward. one in ten workers is on the verge of poverty. that figure has been rising for ten years. to regain the confidence of citizens, europe must be more than a market. never before have so many people been at work in europe: 241 million people. yet too many employees struggle to make ends meet. low wages and the wide gap between eu countries, from €1.62 per hour in bulgaria to €11.97 per hour in luxembourg, are pushing millions of working europeans into poverty, but also generating resentment about wage competition and social dumping within the european market. a european minimum wage framework should put the social partners at the centre and take account of the situation in each member state. this means that the same minimum wage should not apply to every worker in the eu. the european semester should be an annual process, with the social partners, towards more decent wages and less inequality within europe. europe is killing two birds with one stone: strengthening social consultation, while respecting national wage formation and traditions.
mr president, the iran crisis is the first test of the new geopolitical commission. the jury is out on whether it has passed. we all agree that general soleimani will be missed as much as toothache. his death came after years of brutal action and weeks of iranian escalation. however, since his death, the united states has probably avoided a war through chance rather than through strategy. the eu was right to seek de—escalation and to push the iranian response to be limited. unfortunately, 176 innocent people became victims of this situation. the eu’s role right now is critical. while europe’s actions must never be driven by iranian intimidation, we should continue to de—escalate, we should get iran back to the table and prevent its nuclear ambitions and work with iraq to maintain the anti—isis coalition. we have stepped back from the brink of war but getting everyone around the table will require solid european leadership, and i’m not seeing it right now.
madam president, donald trump, the president of the united states, is frightening our fellow citizens in europe first and foremost. do you realize that on twitter, the hashtag #world war iii has been trending for four days? and you can't condemn the illegal actions of this american president? i don't understand, to be honest with you. in addition, i hear calls for europe to do more. you are aware that european states have intervened in iraq, afghanistan, syria and libya. have you seen the success it is, or rather the disaster it is? you want more of this, more disaster? let's be serious, what planet did you live on? if you really want to reassure our fellow citizens, let's take on nato, which is dragging us into this trump war logic. if you want to help the iraqis, let's respect the decision of their parliament that foreign troops leave the country. and finally, if you want to help the iranians, stop the sanctions against this country that are destroying the health, the economy and the social rights of these people.
madam president, i thank my colleagues on the committee on human rights for the excellent report they have presented to us today, which i hope will be voted on by a large majority in this house. it enshrines freedom of speech and expression and media pluralism as the core of our democratic societies, which cannot be limited in the name of arguments such as the fight against terrorism, state security or the maintenance of law and order. it is also characterised by opposition to arbitrary detention and indicates that we must promote and continue to promote human rights and democracy in the world through our foreign policy, of course, and not inadvertently strengthen authoritarian regimes. the credibility of the call you are making for this meeting today may be put to the test as early as next month, when we will have to ratify the trade agreement with vietnam. vietnam, which today is experiencing a large decline in human rights, too many political prisoners and a strengthening of this problematic situation in 2019. the european external action service called for a response to the arrests of journalists and bloggers. how can we be united? by being consistent between our human rights policies and our trade policies.
madam president, one of the strongest assets of our union is our soft power: our credibility in the defence of democracy and human rights in order to defend minorities and democratic opposition to totalitarianism around the world. this is why we should question ourselves. imagine what we would say if the united nations working group on arbitrary detention said that a third country had imprisoned nine people unfairly and that they should be liberated. we would be outraged; our chamber would protest; the commission would make a strong statement on political threats. what if one of these countries was a member state? all this has happened in spain, and therefore i am very interested to know if there is a double standard when these things happen within the european union. double standards are one of the worst problems for the democratic credibility of our foreign policy, and the commission must require of the member states the same criteria that it requires of the rest of the world.
madam president, please. the main objective of our foreign security policy must be to guarantee the security of our citizens. this requires the eradication of terrorism, the effective protection of our external borders, the cessation of illegal migration, the prevention of new waves of migration and the avoidance of regional conflicts. all of this is necessary to preserve peace and stability. the implementation of a common european defence system is welcome in the common security policy. but in the meantime, strengthening our defence capabilities requires efforts by member states. that's why my country is currently undergoing a massive military development program, and by 2024, we will be spending two percent of our gdp on defense. the role of the western balkans and the trust of its peoples is crucial for the union, and enlargement must be taken seriously, with accession negotiations with albania and north macedonia opening as soon as possible. i must say, however, that i am not in favour of moving to qualified majority voting, since this would deprive the smaller member states in particular of the opportunity to express their sovereign national interests on an equal footing in matters of importance to them.
mr. chairman, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on a job well done. the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy was adopted by consensus. the role of the european union is highlighted not only in promoting peace and security but also as a responsible actor in a deteriorating global environment. as regards the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy, i hope that we will adopt that report in a similar way in the future. i support the continuation of work on the development of european strategic capacities. in the face of growing instability, as the first weeks of this year have shown, the european union must act faster, stronger and more constructively, in the spirit of multilateralism, to promote the core european values of peace, cooperation and progress. the response to the many challenges is strategic autonomy, with an emphasis on the need for the union to better coordinate existing and continue to develop its own security and defence capabilities. i believe that more emphasis should be placed on the western balkans as a priority of the common foreign and security and defence policy. a stable neighbourhood is the key to a stable european union. activity, cooperation and a european perspective are the messages we need to send to our partners in the south east. i am confident that our new high representative will also be committed to a strong europe in the multilateral world, because the challenges are many and our citizens expect decisive and timely action, of course in line with our principles.
mr president, i hear a lot of expensive words and fine principles here, but mostly a lot of talk of the devil. the greatest threats to our security are uncontrolled mass immigration and islamization and the increasing number of terrorist attacks that result from this mass immigration. the eu's security, defence and foreign policy policies to date have not reduced these threats, on the contrary. we therefore propose not to undermine the sovereignty of the member states and not to impose coercive policies from the eu. there must of course be cooperation on material and so on. there should be an exchange of information between member states. all of which is effective in combating, as i said, the big threats: the european union is not a party to the conflict. so our recommendations are clear: the european union must not expand further, stop rapprochement with turkey and work more closely with partners such as russia and the united states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i shall vote for both reports, and i thank david mcallister and arnaud danjean for these reports, especially for the wording that 'the security situation around europe has deteriorated dramatically'. this means a task for us, and it means a task for the european commission and, in particular, for the council. for this and other reasons, we need a new eu treaty. the lisbon treaty has come of age, it cannot keep up with today's challenges. we need a europe with more strength on the outside and more freedom on the inside. the new eu treaty must also provide for the principle of unanimity in the council on foreign and security policy, so that it is finally possible for europe to take decisions. it's like in your personal life, not deciding is often the worst decision you can make. europe must be able to take decisions and, mr high representative, i expect - and i think i speak for many in parliament, we will see it in the text of the report - that you will take care of this and in particular of security and defence policy, as your mandate from the president of the commission states.
madam president, the hotbeds of instability are multiplying around us. this new reality highlights the need for a single foreign and defence and security policy. unfortunately, we are far from that goal, with the responsibility of powerful states, and this has very serious consequences today. you have inadvertently allowed matters of the utmost importance to the security of the peoples of europe to be handled by trump, putin and erdoğan. some of you dismiss this view, because you simply do not border countries that do not respect international law. greece, for example, spends a very significant part of its budget on equipment, reducing funding for the welfare state, health and education. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take on the burden of protecting its borders against common threats. it's time to do what you haven't done before. it's about justice and solidarity. the union must become strategically autonomous and develop its own defence structures. what seems like a utopia today is a one-way street for the future.
first of all, mr president, i should like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on their excellent report and it goes without saying that we are living in a time of geopolitical turmoil. the multilateral world order is shaking at its foundations, organisations such as the un and nato are no longer a beacon of stability, agreements are being ignored and agreements are being cancelled. however, there is no better world order than a multilateral world order. to strengthen multilateralism, the eu lacks a military capability that can be deployed quickly and autonomously. a number of steps have already been taken, but the ultimate goal of european strategic autonomy in the field of defence has not yet been achieved. i call on the member states to put the european objective first in consultation without hindrance so that we have an efficient, effective and flexible common european defence at the end of this mandate, because in may 2018 51 million eu citizens voted for the eu to take action on security and defence.
the functioning of the european union is based on representative democracy. that means that there are two legitimate representatives of the citizens. that is the national parliaments and that is this parliament. and it's good to listen to the citizens, to the ngos, to all kinds of organizations, but they're never representative. what the citizens want is politicians who make choices, politicians who dare to decide and who are accountable for their decisions. secondly, the eu is based on the principles of proportionality. this works both ways, and we do things together when that adds value. if not, we will keep it at the level of the member states. so more single market, more global player, more border guard, but no unemployment benefits, no minimum wage: that is a national competence.
mr. chairman, i think there are people here... (does not make sense)... i hear from the right that there is confidence in the european union. i hear that from some socialists and some greens. i would like to reiterate that one in two citizens did not vote in the last european elections. there is a democratic crisis within the european union, and you are underestimating it. where does this crisis come from? the moment the french voted against the european constitution, you ignored them. the dutch did the same: they were ignored. when the irish voted against the lisbon treaty, they had to vote again. then we got the greeks who voted against austerity: flat-rolled. and then you are surprised that the british do not see a social alternative in this european union. you're not going to solve this crisis with a conference of a few establishment politicians, maybe even led by guy verhofstadt. it's not gonna work.
before i give the floor to the next speaker, i would like to say two things: first, because i see an increased appetite for blue cards, as well as requests for "catch-the-eye", in the really serious debate, i will accept a blue card from each speaker from the one who picks up the blue card first. i also note that the blue cards are being applied for by colleagues who have also applied for the floor under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure. please note that i will take this into account as a criterion. if someone uses the blue card, they may not be preferred for the catch-the-eye procedure.
the european union's criminal proceedings against member states such as hungary and poland are not about breaches of the independence of the press and the judiciary. otherwise a country like belgium with its subsidized media and its politically appointed judges would have been persecuted long ago. what is at issue is that they want to remain in charge of their own country. they want to preserve their sovereignty, their freedom and their identity. who could blame them? the european union offers no solution to the euro crisis or the migration crisis. instead of subsidiarity and cooperation, this elite chooses a superstate and coercion. countries that don't bend, they punish. you are destroying europe with this european union of dictators and bureaucrats. with brexit, one country is already leaving. how many countries will have to follow before you finally start listening to the people?
author. – madam president, ‘bring back our girls’. remember six years ago this hashtag brought the world together to call upon the islamic terror group boko haram to release the hundreds of schoolgirls they abducted. it is heart breaking to think that more than 100 of them have still not returned to their homes today. it’s a terrible fate for them and for their families. the pain is easy to imagine. nigeria has been subjected to sectarian and religious violence for far too long. it’s yet another country in sub-saharan africa that sees its economic and political potential wasting away. nigeria with its oil wealth would be a leading example in the region. instead, almost every day nigerians are dying at the hands of violence and terror. millions run for their lives. millions more live every day in fear. europe must continue to support the people of nigeria and promote the regional cooperation and encourage further reforms like for security and in the army. our determination and efforts to end religious and sectarian violence and to protect women in the region must never waiver so we can stop the poisonous and destructive spread of terror.
president, a conference on the future of europe, another chatterbox run by well-paid politicians establishment politicians is really not going to solve the democratic crisis in europe. if you want to get closer to the citizens and workers of europe, perhaps we can start by cutting wages: mrs van der leyen, president of the european commission, is paid some 32 000 euros a month; charles michel, as president of the council, to the same extent; a member of parliament can easily get 10 000 euros a month. how do you want to understand, and gain such salaries, what the workers who do not arrive at the end of the month live? it's not possible. and as much as we are, we are preventing people who come directly from multinationals from becoming european commissioners or ministers: it is just as incomprehensible. at that point, perhaps, there will be a beginning to the credibility of these institutions.
president. - my feelings today are feelings of satisfaction that we have an orderly brexit thanks to michel barnier. secondly, sadness at the fact that our british partners, our british allies, our british friends are leaving us. thirdly, respect for the decision of the british people. but when you say brexit, you are saying think about the future of the european union. firstly, a good, deep partnership with our british friends. we have only eight months, in fact, and we must make a different move from the previous negotiations. then it was about more liberalization. we must now maintain a free market, we must see to it that we maintain as much of the internal market and free trade as possible. secondly, we must think about the future of the european union, and i have a lot to say about that, but what i would like to stress is: after brexit, the european union must assume a geopolitical role more than ever.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, this debate is as if it were written by mr franz kafka. i believe you're familiar with this czech writer. i hear and see the same people who voted and pushed through against the interests of central and eastern europe, of romania, of hungary, of bulgaria, of poland, of the baltic republics, of spain, of portugal the mobility package. these are the same people who talk about a green deal and complain about polluting transportation. and they complained about the rising emissions. well, how can they not be elevated when you voted to walk thousands of empty trucks thousands of miles across europe? how can these emissions not go up? one of them is not true. you can't drive around empty trucks and ask for a green deal. what do you call that, hypocrisy, double-dealing, fat-faced? i don't know, tell us! what is happening before our eyes is a fake and you, commissioner, have a big problem. you have to deal with the mobility package, which was made in the interest of carriers from countries outside the european union like russia, like turkey, who are taking over the business. don't listen to the carriers - the carriers from bulgaria, from romania, from poland and from the baltic states, because there is a lobby and it's ugly and it shouldn't be happening.
madam president, mobility policies are crucial to the quality of life of people, to the functioning of the economy and to the reduction of human impacts on the environment. in the perspective of economic, social and territorial cohesion, account must necessarily be taken of mobility needs at local, regional and national level. the european union has been placing an increasing focus on so-called transeuropean networks under pressure from the major economies that dominate the single market, while reducing the resources needed for what is still to be done, and a lot, at the level of local, regional and national mobility, especially in areas such as rail or metro in cities. the so-called european green deal, despite much publicity, fails blatantly on the question of mobility. there is no sustainable mobility without a strong commitment to public transport, without the massive shift of users from individual to collective public transport. well, not once does the so-called european green deal mention public transport. we hope that the forthcoming mobility strategy will correct these distortions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner vălean, europe certainly needs to be at the forefront of a transport paradigm that is able to reconcile efficiency and environmental sustainability. but in catalonia, when we think about the future of transport, the first thing that comes to mind is the mediterranean corridor. the social and economic actors in both catalonia and valencia have never ceased to insist on and work on the need for this connection, which is highly strategic for europe. it has been included in the ten-t for ten years, but it has not yet been completed. we have seen the spanish state put a brake on investment for some time now; we have not had a comprehensive master plan for the decade 2020-2030, from france to algeciras; we have not yet known the date of the new connection to the port of barcelona, which has been planned for more than twelve years, the new terminal of the old llobregat canal, and so on. the commission's speeches are always welcome and important, but regulations are useless if they are not enforced. they have no real effect unless they are followed by good implementation by the member states. we hope that the european commission will be really firm in this respect.
i have to say, madam president, thank you very much for joining us today, commissioner. we're talking about the future of mobility. i would like to address a matter of current concern to the citizens of europe, and on which i have received countless questions from my constituents in recent months. that's the theme of the environmental plaques. we see many cities in europe, in the european union, introducing their own systems. we have this in strasbourg, for example. if you, like me, drive to strasbourg week, you have to apply for a plaque. if you drive here to brussels, like me, you had to register here, and we have that in countless cities across the european union. we, the european people's party, have asked the commission on several occasions in recent years - your predecessors asked us - whether this is a) in accordance with european rules and b) whether this patchwork is in the spirit of our european union. many citizens fear that if they drive into cities, they will be hit with heavy fines if they do not register. registration is not always easy either. and here is my request: in the light of all the far-sightedness we are hearing about the various issues here today, all of which are important, that we also take these current issues into account and that you, as the new commissioner, - i have met you in such a way that you really want to work for the good of the citizens - take up this issue and give us feedback and check it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the green deal cannot and must not be a mere political advertisement. we are fully aware of the climate challenges we face and there is an urgent need to correct the course of community policies quickly and effectively. i call on the commission to take a more ambitious and determined approach, starting with eurovignette, which is blocked by national logic that is at odds with the long-term vision of the green deal. we all know that transport is responsible for a quarter of the union's emissions. specific investments are needed in rail, air and sea transport. in addition, the commission's current position on intermodal transport is still not sufficient. parliament has already reiterated that a greater economic effort is needed to achieve the 2030 targets. i am also very concerned that punishing the biggest polluters could turn into an unfair taxation that falls solely on the final consumer, instead of being an incentive to develop less impactful technologies. once again, the investment required to connect europe's peripheral areas, such as southern italy, appears to be insufficient. we therefore ask that, as parliament has already proposed, there be an increase of 6 billion in the cef mechanism.
madam president, welcome commissioner, efficient, sustainable and clean mobility of people and goods is one of the keys to the competitiveness of our economy. it is an essential tool in the fight against climate change and guarantees freedom of movement. we are leaders in many transportation technologies, and to maintain that position requires us to innovate, to create the world's first integrated mobility system. this requires a commitment to intensive digitalisation, industrial innovation to decarbonise vehicles and connect them to each other, to infrastructure and to users, and to the training of new professionals. we have to evolve in the management of transport modes to start talking about mobility. new business models are going to emerge that will allow users, in a single operation, to solve their needs from the first to the last mile. a transformation that requires, moreover, a change in which we are all protagonists and which starts at the ground level. that is why i insist that it should be a bottom-up effort and that it should rely on the institutions closest to the citizenry to make progress. and of course, the commitments and agreements which are key to this development must be fulfilled: the transeuropean transport networks, the single sky, the galileo network, the railway package; we are committed to the green pact, but it will be only pretty words if the member states continue to block the foundations of this transformation. you must be the star to demand that they do so.
madam president, luxembourg is the first european country where public transport will be free from 1 march. access to practical and efficient travel alternatives is essential to motivate citizens to change their mode of transport. access for all and affordable transport are essential, but other investments are also needed. we need to ensure that the infrastructure is there to make it easy to switch from train to bicycle, from train to electric car or from train to tram. equally necessary is the introduction of reduced fares across europe for low-carbon transport such as the train, especially for students, and the fair taxation of polluting means of transport. finally, we must also strengthen the intra-european railway lines and night trains. this strategy must be an integral part of the green deal. this is a concrete area in which europe must improve the quality of life of its citizens.
madam president, madam commissioner, thank you for the presentation. let me tell you that sustainability is built on three pillars. first, of course, the ecological issue, which was widely discussed in your speech. we must all support the green deal for europe and ensure that in the future goods will be transported more by rail than by road, but also that there is a tax on kerosene. personally, i am entirely in favour of fair taxation and that we can favour certain modes of transport. secondly, sustainability also means the economy, jobs, families and businesses that depend directly on the transport sector. yes, we must ensure that this particular attention to enterprises and employment is included in the strategy to be pursued with the help of digital technologies. finally, there is the social or democratic aspect. yes, transport is a democratic issue for many of our regions: those that are landlocked, those that are neglected, those where citizens cannot move because there is a lack of means of transport, whether public or private. this is a democratic challenge for europe: commissioner, you have a very important role to play in this area, in ensuring that every citizen, in the future, has mobility solutions close to home, close to home, close to work. at that time, yes, faith in europe will grow thanks to the solutions that will be provided by you, the commission and all the actors in the field of mobility. it is therefore also a democratic issue, beyond the ecological and economic issues. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i met david at a demonstration outside here on social security and he told me that in his sector, with certain companies, say a romanian company, temporarily sending a worker to belgium, in this case, social security contributions are paid at the rate of the country of origin, i.e. romania. and this is a problem for it because in a logic of competition, this company has a competitive advantage over belgian companies, in particular, and this becomes an excuse for governments, such as the belgian government, to impose reductions in social contributions on belgian companies in the name of competitiveness. the workers are the turkeys in the hole, because they lose in gross wages and they lose in social security, so a very clear question for the european commission: can we please impose the highest social contribution rate, the most favourable to workers and social security; and when? because the workers need it, thank you.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his presentation. commissioner, your work programme is very exhaustive but i will only touch upon the issue of digitalisation. high-ranking jobs only being presented to male shopkeepers, people of colour being targeted by facial recognition technologies, or cancer being better detected in certain hospitals than others – that is what we might get if we do not interfere with automated decision making. that is why we need clear rules on the deployment of ai, and the same goes for rules on digital intermediaries. sadly, in the recent past, we had several examples of online posts that were clearly preaching hate or glorifying terrorism, or content unrightfully taken down or even being prevented from going online. we should also, of course, preserve our freedom of speech. private companies or their automated filters can never take the place of human judges in removing online content. commissioner, striking the right balance between protecting and allowing is of utmost importance for the democratic rights of our citizens and we will, accordingly, look forward to your proposals in this domain.
rapporteur. – madam president, it will be better with the micro, but i have nearly lost my voice so i will try to be clear. i have to urge you, dear colleagues, not to postpone either the debate or the vote. there has already been a proposal in the committee to postpone. it was rejected with a clear majority. the committee chose a compromise: first, to monitor more the implementation of the two agreements, which is also the practice of the international labour organisation (ilo); and, second, to ask for more engagement from the vietnamese authorities. well, they delivered on the implementation of the ratification of the ilo convention. they delivered on – and this is a precedent – a joint committee of our parliament and the national assembly to monitor the implementation of the two agreements. they delivered – and this is also a precedent – on the involvement of our parliament in the human rights dialogue between vietnam and the european union. lastly, they delivered on the independence of the organisations taking part in the domestic advisory groups. so it’s also a question of credibility alongside all the other arguments, of course.
author. – mr president, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) formulated a couple of questions regarding automated decision—making processes in anticipation of the european commission’s initiatives on artificial intelligence (ai), which will be presented in parliament next week. for our committee, it is of utmost importance that in any future initiative on the matter, we do guarantee not only the free movement of ai-enabled goods and services, but also the trust of the consumer in these new goods and services because the applications are numerous and encompass virtually all sectors of the internal market. we are witnessing rapid development of ai technology. consumers are being confronted on a daily basis with systems that use automated decision making, such as virtual assistance and chat—bots on websites, and as is the case with all technological advancements, this provides us with opportunities as well as challenges. ai and automated decision making offers great potential in terms of innovative and higher quality products and services, but at the same time, various challenges need to be addressed in order to realise this potential. first and foremost, services and goods using ai and automated decision making create the risk of consumers being misled or discriminated against, for example, in relation to differentiated pricing. will consumers be aware of the fact that the price displayed on their screen was adapted to their estimated purchasing power? the same goes for professional services. if important decisions are automated and thus carried out without sufficient human oversight by highly skilled professionals, are consumers aware that decisions affecting their professional, financial or personal lives are in fact not made by humans, and if they feel wronged, will they be able to demand a human review? will a human, ultimately, be responsible for final decisions or will they be able to reverse them? so my first question to you is: how is the commission planning to ensure that consumers are protected from unfair or discriminatory commercial practices or from potential risks entailed by ai—driven professional services? secondly, we risk that the existing eu product safety and liability frameworks do not adequately cover new ai—enabled products and services. do concepts such as defective products and the legal provisions built around these adequately cover situations in which harm is caused by products operating under automated decision making? as is the case with other products and services, we should ensure that businesses and consumers are protected from harm and receive compensation if it occurs. this is important in order to ensure secured free movement throughout the single market. therefore, our second question is: what initiatives may we expect from the commission side to ensure that the eu safety and liability frameworks are fit for purpose? in that respect, we should ensure that market—surveillance authorities and other competent authorities possess adequate means and powers to act. this is especially important when competent authorities, businesses and consumers do not have access to clear information on how the decision was taken. how will the commission ensure greater transparency in this respect? lastly, talking about biased or unlawfully obtained data sets, the imco committee stresses the importance of respecting regulations such as gdpr when it comes to the collection of data, but also looking at non-personal data use, barriers and requirements. this is something we can and should address at this stage of the design. we should build in these safeguards – privacy by design. so i want to ask: how is the commission planning to ensure that only high quality and unbiased data set are used in automated decision—making processes? dear commissioner, as i said at the beginning, ai offers great potential in many aspects of our daily lives and many fields of the internal market, yet it confronts us with many new and unknown risks. we should address these risks in an adequate and timely manner because the trust of the consumer will be crucial for the acceptance of these new technologies in our society and economy. i thank you in advance for your answers on these very topical and societally important questions and i, and with me the whole imco committee, look forward to the presentation of your plans next week.
mr president, commissioner, i think we need to change the rules urgently. today you are presenting a list of a few dozen investments in polluting fossil gas. billions of euros in energy that, in the end, can kill, because it is poison for the environment, poison for our planet, poison for our air. you're proposing that we invest our money, taxpayers' money, in poison, rather than taking that money and putting it into renewables, into clean energy. i don't understand that. there's a second aspect that bothers me. last week i spoke to your colleague from the commission, i asked him the question and what did he say? first, he told me not to take what he wrote too seriously. then he told me you were going to raise the taxes. that is unacceptable to me. we're gonna sell poison to people and we're gonna tax them on that poison. they'll pay twice. please, stop this, change the rules.
the commission must now act quickly, act wisely and at the same time act pragmatically. in this respect, i agree with the very broad mandate for the european commission and i place my full confidence in michel barnier, who has so far made an excellent career. the aim must be a comprehensive trade agreement without barriers, respecting our red lines: the correlation between a level playing field and the depth of the agreement, but also a 'plus' agreement: r&amp;d, security, fisheries, defence, you name it. in this connection, a question to the commission: does the commission intend to terminate its cooperation with the united kingdom in the north sea energy corporation? first of all: i do not think the commission has the authority. secondly: it would be a capital mistake. in the 21st century, we need to work more closely together in the blue economy: the 21st century will be the century of the ocean!
madam president, i would like to talk about financial services, which i believe are crucial for future relations with the uk. we know that an fta can have only a very small chapter on financial services, addressing only the right of establishment and prudential carve-out mechanism, and eu financial services are about the single market, and it is clear now that it will be an equivalence mechanism that will provide the main framework for the relationship. the commission has just a few months to prepare all those unilateral equivalence decisions – around forty, i understand – and the financial industry should be fully aware of how little time they have to adjust to the future situation. efforts have been made recently, also in this house, to enhance the equivalence framework as the main regulatory tool for financial services in the future relationship with the uk. as equivalence is a unilateral discretionary policy tool, in order to make it deliver, we will need constructive cooperation with uk regulators and supervisors to protect the financial stability and integrity of our financial markets, protect investors and consumers, as well as ensuring lpf. but all of us here in this house must also be aware that for an ambitious, beneficial and successful future relationship with the uk in the area of financial services, it is our duty also to complete as soon as possible the banking union and build a genuine capital market union. the eu will preserve regulatory and supervisory autonomy, but so will the uk, and we just heard from the former governor of the bank of england that the uk will not be a rule-taker. so let me emphasise that, while we should maintain close and ambitions relations with the uk in financial services, we should also spare no effort to reduce potential systemic risk.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, chief negotiator barnier, after one of the darkest pages in the history of the union, we have the duty today to do everything possible to guarantee our citizens the results of 45 years of european integration, safeguarding our relations with the united kingdom and basing them on the principle of social and environmental equity and fair competition. we need an ambitious agreement, which commits the united kingdom to maintaining our production and food safety standards and avoids the risk that access to the single market for overseas products will be a trojan horse for products which would jeopardise the health of our consumers and the economic sustainability of our farms. future relations cannot be without a shared cultural heritage, which also includes quality agri-food production. that is why all our ladies will have to be guaranteed the same level of protection as before. these are the principles on which we are based on our conviction that after brexit there will be no vacuum, but an ever stronger and more sustainable europe, ready to defend its citizens.
madam president, it is with mixed feelings that i make this first contribution to the proceedings of this chamber because, naturally, it has been difficult to see the departure of the uk for any irish person, given the very close political, social and cultural affinity that we have with the uk. i’d much rather be here in very different circumstances, but it is fitting that i should speak, for my first contribution, on brexit, because essentially it is one of the reasons i put my candidacy forward a year ago and, ironically, one of the reasons that i’ve ended up here in the difficult circumstances. we’re at a delicate stage in proceedings, and there is no example in history where negotiating parties are seeking to impose trade barriers. so it will be difficult. it is amazing to continue to hear uk government officials expressing astonishment that the eu would exercise power, leverage and influence in trade negotiations, given the fact, on the one hand, that the uk were one of the architects of this system and that they have benefited from it so much. so i would call upon mr barnier to continue to speak about the uk as a trading partner and not a trading competitor, and not to imagine that the uk has to be punished in order for the eu to thrive.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to take this opportunity, now that the british mandatories are no longer with us for the first time, to wish the united kingdom well on its newfound independence and that brussels is no longer the centre of its decisions but that london is the epicentre of political will-building. you can like it or you can't like it. the fact is that it happens on the basis of a democratic majority decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it was not until the british house of commons elections that it became clear that this british majority decision was unshakable. it will now be up to you, the european union, to decide whether to welcome the british in their newfound independence with friendship and flexibility, or whether to continue to treat the british with a regulatory rage so that they will say 'no, thank you' and be driven into a transatlantic axis with the americans, to the detriment of europe, to the detriment of european jobs and the european economy. and you will have to manage to meet the british with friendliness and flexibility.
madam president, the framework for the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union will inevitably depend on the nature of the forces negotiating it. what we have on both sides are forces committed to the liberalization and commodification of public services, the attack on the social functions of the state, the limitation of state intervention in the economy, the deregulation of social and labour matters, a dangerous escalation of militarism within nato and an aggressive and interventionist foreign policy. we oppose and fight this path firmly. we see no reason why mutually beneficial cooperation links with the united kingdom should not be maintained and even strengthened, beyond the economic field, in fields such as science, education and culture, among others. a framework of loyal cooperation, respecting the sovereignty of each country and the rights of migrant communities, in which the people win, and not a competitive framework that exploits big capital at the expense of the people. it is not acceptable, under any circumstances, that the states should be prevented from constructing this framework based on bilateral relations with the united kingdom, nor is it acceptable that the european union should be given the exclusive right to negotiate. in this way we always know which interests will be served and to the detriment of which interests as well.
madam president, dear michel barnier, please continue to work as you have done in recent years, preserving the unity of all european institutions. dear colleagues – let’s be aware – let me underline that brexit was tearing apart the uk society for years. it was tearing apart political parties, it was tearing apart the uk government and it needed two early elections to settle. meanwhile, in the european parliament, we have fulfilled our mission. we work in a noiseless, very professional way to fulfil our missions. for this i would like to thank colleagues from all political groups which were part of this united majority. what do we need to achieve as of now? priority number one needs to be citizens’ rights. we need to give certainty to students, to farmers, to researchers about the future relationship. the objective needs to be as close a relationship as possible, but the instruments are clear – a rules-based relationship. the principle is clear – please respect the rules – and the outcome needs to be in line with today’s mandate of the european parliament. only then can we approve it in the end.
madam president, we have heard tough language on assuring a level playing field and not lowering our european standards, for example when it comes to food safety or environmental standards. but i do hope that the negotiating team will be just as tough when it comes to data protection standards. i’m quite worried to see the eagerness of the commission to issue a so-called ‘adequacy decision’ when it is far from clear that the uk government can be trusted with our data. i refer to recent scandals like the gross abuse of uk access to the schengen database. in addition to discussing our future relationship, let’s not forget the implementation of what has been agreed so far and in particular citizens’ rights. i strongly urge the commission to make sure that the rights of 3.5 million eu citizens in the uk and 1.5 million british citizens in the eu27 will be secured not just on paper, but also in practice.
i have to say, madam president, the aim of our negotiations here must be to get an ambitious free trade agreement between two close allies, the eu and the uk. we must achieve this, and i think it is a fundamental task, but we must also be very clear about our demands to the british. and our demand is that we say no to the british weakening of worker protection or environmental protection. we are opposed to the british reducing their taxes and increasing their subsidies. in other words, we must be crystal clear about our demands to ensure fair competition, equal competition, a level playing field. that said, it is also in the eu's interest to get a deal, and we must not let the resentment that we got a brexit stop us from finding solutions that will ensure, for example, that eu fishermen can continue to have access to british waters. it is in the interest of all of us to have a good trade deal with the british.
madam president, croatian presidency, commission, mr michel barnier, i think it is worth highlighting two aspects which have perhaps not yet been properly emphasized here. the first is that it is essential, in any event, that security matters be regulated in the relationship between the united kingdom and the european union. it is enough to think about the terrorist attacks, about police cooperation between the services of the united kingdom and the services of various european states to get an idea of what it would be like not to have a basis of agreement between the two sides of the channel. finally, it seems to me also important that this agreement can be extended to the area of defence and to some areas of foreign policy. it is enough, for example, to look at what happened with iran to see that the united kingdom is much more aligned with the european union's vision than with other visions. and that is why we must work, both in the field of criminal and security cooperation and in the field of defence and foreign policy.
madam president, mr barnier, you have been a good negotiator throughout the process and i am convinced that you will lead us to a great agreement. we need to have an agreement first. as my colleague juan fernando lópez aguilar says, we need an agreement sooner to avoid the abyss. secondly, we need the agreement with the united kingdom to be ambitious and to defend and represent the interests of the european agricultural and agri-food sector, with our quality standards, which the united kingdom is well aware of. one of the important aspects of the negotiating mandate, to which several honourable members have referred, is fisheries. you know it very well, too, since you dealt with these matters as minister for fisheries in france. it is important that we can conclude an agreement before 1 july so that we can know whether we can make a responsible allocation of tacs and quotas and that our fishing industry is not left defenceless in this situation. it is very important for our country and i think for the european union.
madam president, first of all, many thanks to the commission and michel barnier for their excellent work, and also thanks to the team drafting parliament’s resolution. this is a very good resolution and i guess the debate was also good. at the end, almost everything was said, so let me just stress a few points. first of all, free goes together with fair. these elements cannot be divided. and the second, rights goes together with obligation. based on those principles, we would be able to build a very extensive, very deep agreement with the uk. we could, but it’s probably not very likely, because we have two constraints. the first is too many red lines and the second is too little time. nevertheless, we should try our best, and there should be two principles guiding us. first of all, we cannot give up our principles. principles are very important for us and for our partners. the second was stressed by the council. time is short; we must be quick and flexible to get the best results for all europeans.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the british government wants to conclude this agreement within just eight months, otherwise we will end up with a hard brexit, which means that 42 000 jobs are at stake for belgium. it is therefore essential that we conclude an agreement which can enter into force on 1 january 2021. but make no mistake: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is why we must be bold in setting priorities. first of all: our fishermen must be able to continue fishing in british waters. secondly, there must be a level playing field for trade. our food, textile and pharmaceutical sectors deserve security. thirdly, there must also be an agreement on cooperation in the fields of defence and justice. the united kingdom will remain a close neighbour.
rapporteur. – madam president, tomorrow we will vote on the eu—vietnam free trade agreement and the investment protection agreement. these are the first state—of—the art trade and investment agreements on which this newly-elected parliament is asked to give its consent. it’s a unique opportunity for this parliament to underline the ambition of the eu to become a geopolitical actor and player: not as an empire that imposes rules, but as a global power that defends multilateralism, resists protectionism and reaches out to partners such as vietnam. it is up to the european union to promote rules-based trade and show by example that trade delivers, brings peoples together and raises standards worldwide on safety, labour, environment and human rights. it’s also a question of credibility. we need to show vietnam and future trading partners that the eu is a credible partner that sticks to its commitment and that we are still able to negotiate, sign and conclude trade agreements. eight years after starting the negotiations with vietnam, this parliament has been given the opportunity to debate the most comprehensive trade deal between the eu and a middle—income country in its history. as such, this deal with vietnam sets a new benchmark for europe’s engagement with emerging economies. if we look at this trade agreement, it is of the utmost importance to stress, first of all, the economic value that will give a boost to the prosperity of both the eu and vietnam. it represents a great opportunity for european exporters and investors. it will eliminate 99% of tariffs within seven years, and this will result in additional exports in both directions. this will clearly result in many tens of thousands of new and, on average, better-paid jobs through increased use of international standards. this deal will also cut non—trade barriers and reduce costs for our companies. we will gain better access to each other’s public markets, including for smes. vietnam has a vibrant economy of more than 90 million consumers, a growing middle class and a young, dynamic workforce. the country is open to the world and embraces modern standards. vietnam was the first in the world, even before canada, to accept the principle of a modern investment court system (ics), a modern ics proposal that has mostly been drafted by this very parliament with independent judges, a code of conduct, protection of the right to regulate and facilitated access to the court for smes. this agreement thus brings new opportunities for companies, both big corporations and smes. vietnam is also the gateway to the entire asian region. this agreement brings the long—term goal of an eu—asian trade agreement from region to region a step closer, and this should be our objective. these agreements are also instruments to promote and protect european standards and values. vietnam respects clear commitments to the ratification of two additional core international labour organization (ilo) conventions: its revised labour code, its improved labour and human rights situation and the implementation of the paris climate agreement. for all these reasons and the creation of prosperity by free and fair trade and the fact that the eu is taking responsibility to set the standards worldwide and taking the lead on rules—based trade in times of rising trade tensions, protectionism and unilateralism, i therefore ask for the consent of this house so that the peoples of the european union and the people of vietnam can further strengthen their ties in the future and so that we can allow free and fair trade to bring people closer together. (applause)
for the greens/efa group madam president, after voting against a postponement of the agreement yesterday, our assembly is about to make the first major departure since the inauguration of the european commission: between its values, its principles, its declarations on respect for human rights, including your report, madam president, the wiseler-lima report on human rights in the world, which we voted on not later than last year, but also the green pact, by ratifying the free trade and investment agreement with vietnam. vietnam has committed itself to reforming its labour code and will ratify the ilo conventions, but in order to make effective the freedom of association and expression and the emergence of independent trade unions, a reform of the penal code must take place; it is indispensable. and that is what we have asked for in letters to the vietnamese authorities; we have asked for a postponement of the ratification process so that we can work together with vietnam through dialogue. but, mr lange, vietnam has put a real stop to these questions and these requests. we now know that the reforms requested will not take place, particularly in the criminal field, and yet we would be prepared, as a parliamentary assembly, to accept this, in the name of what? economic interests but which ones, mr. hogan, which ones, mr. bourgeois? because the report, the economic assessment of the european commission shows that our trade deficit is going to be further aggravated by this agreement. we have apparently not met the same economic sectors as wood, textiles and rice, which, like us, are asking for a postponement of this agreement. worse, the vietnamese authorities justify the arrest of independent journalists - not to mention mr pham chi dung - in the name of limiting press freedom. this was a welcome development for our assembly, whose chairman had called on vietnam to take action on this matter. a big gap with the green pact too. we will indeed reward a country that practices illegal fishing and deforestation by unconditionally strengthening a free trade agreement and our investments there. this is not to mention the potential conflict of interest which has been shaking this case from the beginning, since we have continued our work as if nothing had happened. in the last few weeks, you have received calls from hundreds of ngos, citizens and trade unions, which you apparently do not hear today. the request for a postponement is also being forwarded by them on the grounds of the deterioration in the human rights situation in vietnam in recent weeks, months and years. i was hoping, dear liberal socialist colleagues, that you would change your mind about the negotiations we have been having for the last few weeks. it is clear that the green pact and human rights are not yet being respected by our assembly.
rapporteur. – mr president, at the end of the debate, first i want to thank my colleagues in the committee on international trade (inta), the shadow rapporteurs, and especially our chair, mr lange. i want to thank my predecessor, the former rapporteur jan zahradil, and i would also like to thank commissioner hogan for our good cooperation and for rightfully underlining the importance of this trade and investment agreement with vietnam. i totally agree with your conclusion, mr hogan, and i take note of your clear commitment to oversee all aspects relevant for the implementation of the agreement and the continuous assistance of the commission in order to help vietnam pursue its reform process and to lend the country the financial and technical aid necessary to achieve its goals. i would like to thank colleagues for all their valuable contributions. most of the points of concern raised during this debate were also my concerns. however, i think we have sufficiently addressed most of the concerns during our preparatory work. i believe these agreements will serve as an effective instrument to promote fundamental values and create a more level playing field. vietnam has committed to a series of important measures, and i agree with you, mr lange: thanks to the clear political messages of this parliament, i’m happy to say that during the negotiation process ahead of this debate and during my own interactions, the vietnamese government has demonstrated a trustworthy and clear political will to deliver on important issues. the role of the european parliament was, and is, essential in this respect. we will continue to closely follow up on the proceedings of the independent organisations taking part in the domestic advisory groups. after ratification, we are also looking forward to strengthening political dialogue with our vietnamese colleagues through the establishment of a joint parliamentary cooperation framework. we will also look into the proposal of associating our colleagues on the subcommittee on human rights (droi) to the already existing annual human rights dialogue. vietnam is a country in transformation. i believe these agreements will further contribute to the improvement of its prosperity, labour, human rights and living standards. the eu needs to support this aim fully in order to bring forward this positive agenda for change in vietnam, and therefore i passionately call upon all my colleagues in this house to vote tomorrow in favour of the consent for both agreements, so that the eu can take up its role as a geopolitical actor in the region and show vietnam that we are a genuine and reliable partner today and for the future.
madam president, the situation in syria is dire. the conflict has killed almost 400 000 people since 2011. this is an entrenched conflict rife with opposing interests and objectives. a solution must be found. the suffering of the syrian people and the risk to long-term global stability have been too great for too long. the eu and its member states have provided more than 17 billion in aid and the council has targeted sanctions in place. but these are sticking plasters on a gaping wound. eu member states, the us and other international players must do everything they can to push for de-escalation and the freezing of this conflict so that a cease-fire can be honoured and a fragile peace can be maintained. europe’s influence in achieving this aim will be severely diminished if it cannot speak with one voice at both an eu or nato level. there are no elegant solutions available, simply the urgent need for pragmatism and diplomatic determination. let’s do this.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, having recently celebrated the 75th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz, this discussion is today more important than ever. for several years now, a worrying increase in the number of manifestations of hate speech, hate crimes, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in europe has been observed, affecting minorities and other vulnerable groups, including jewish people. in particular, we note with strong concern that anti-semitic hatred remains widespread. let me be clear on this: there is no justification for this phenomenon and we are obliged to take such issues extremely seriously. there are a number of legal instruments that offer protection against racism and related forms of intolerance. all eu member states have accepted the international convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination. the eu’s charter of fundamental rights also prohibits discrimination on the grounds of race, colour, ethnic origin and religion or belief. the eu has furthermore adopted specific legislation on combating intolerance and hatred. i refer in particular to the 2008 framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. in june 2016, the council invited member states to ensure the effective transposition and implementation of the framework decision and other relevant hate-crime laws at national level. in addition, it asked member states to develop effective methods to report and ensure proper recording of hate crimes. on 6 december 2018, the eu member state governments also sent a clear message by adopting a council declaration on the fight against anti—semitism and the development of a common security approach to better protect jewish communities and institutions in europe. the council notes that anti-semitic hatred remains widespread and invites eu member states to take measures to tackle anti-semitism and improve the security of jewish communities. social media is one of the main vehicles enabling hate speech to go viral. one possible remedy against this epidemic is a harmonised and determined european response. in this area, the council conclusions on the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights, adopted in october 2017, welcomed the measures coordinated by the commission’s high level group on combating racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. we also welcome and support the ongoing eu level dialogue with major it companies, and address hate speech online, including through the implementation of the code of conduct launched in 2016 by the commission for this purpose. last but not least, we should remember and commend the remarkable work done by the fundamental rights agency in this field. the countermeasures i have mentioned so far would, however, be insufficient without recognising the important role of education and youth work, and, more precisely, the need to develop democratic resilience, media literacy, tolerance, critical thinking and conflict resolution skills in the learning process. it is important to bear in mind that the measures in place to fight hate crime can only fulfil their potential if victims report hate motivated harassment and violence to the police, and if police officers record such incidents as hate crimes. according to the fundamental rights agency, only a fraction of victims report hate motivated harassment and violence and, when they do, police officers do not always recognise them as hate crimes. fortunately, member states are increasingly introducing measures to address this issue. this includes providing relevant guidance for police officers, requiring the collection of detailed data on crime and working with civil society organisations experienced in dealing with hate crime. in short, the responsibility rests with all of us – politicians, teachers, civil servants, students, parents and, where appropriate, judges and prosecutors – not to close our eyes or ears and pretend not to see injustice, discrimination or hatred. from the horrors of auschwitz, the world learned its lesson and built an order of peace, founded upon human rights and international law. we are all committed to defending this.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, two weeks ago we commemorated in brussels the 75th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz-birkenau. holocaust survivor liliana segre shared with us her moving story about the evils of humanity she confronted as a young girl. she reminded us that hatred, racism and anti-semitism is still today haunting european societies and endangering our diverse societies and the minorities in our midst. it is the duty of the eu to prevent history from repeating itself and to uphold the values upon which the union is based. the holocaust has shown us where anti-semitism and racism can lead and its memory is at the very core of the european project of a europe that protects its jewish communities and all other minorities. we have seen that fear and hatred against ‘the other’ has become normalised in recent years. it flourishes in mainstream media, in political debate and in the online world. it is a major challenge to our whole society and not only to the affected communities. the anti-semitic attack against the synagogue in halle is only the most recent example but, on a daily basis, minorities become victims of hatred online and offline. it has been a key priority for the eu to ensure first and foremost the correct transposition and implementation of the relevant eu legislation, including the racial equality directive, the employment equality directive and the framework decision on racism and xenophobia. the commission has been working closely together with member state authorities and civil society in the eu high-level group on combating racism and xenophobia to ensure the effective application of the rules against hate speech and hate crime by the whole enforcement chain. the developed tools will assist member states in strengthening a practical response to implement. dedicated formats of the high-level group will ensure in the future that the tools are implemented by member states to make tangible progress in recording and responding to hate crime and hate speech. in particular, as regards hate speech, the commission has pushed for stronger action; it initiated the code of conduct on combating illegal hate speech online whereby major it companies have committed to review flagged hate speech within 24 hours and remove content when necessary. fast progress has been achieved. in 2016, only 28% of the content was removed. now it is above 70%, and 89% of the notices are assessed within the committed period. we regularly monitor the progress. next month we will present the results of the fifth monitoring exercise carried out together with civil society organisations. we managed to bring together all actors from civil society, it companies and state authorities to strengthen our response to hate speech online. our two coordinators on combating anti-semitism and anti-muslim hatred have been proactively reaching out to jewish and muslim communities, and strengthening the collaboration with international organisations, member states’ authorities and non-governmental organisations. we also intensively work on implementing the eu-roma strategy containing measures against anti-gypsyism. the adoption of the council declaration on combating anti-semitism was a milestone. all member states unanimously agreed on actions and were invited to develop national strategies. the commission created a dedicated working group to ensure concrete follow-up to the council declaration and support member states and jewish communities to work together on developing these strategies. we are glad that the incoming german presidency has announced already their intention to place the fight against anti-semitism high on the agenda. distorting our common history has been one of the trademarks of fanning the flames of hatred and division, be it by third countries or within our own societies. where today there are attempts to deny or distort the memory of the holocaust, where people are vilified because they are jews, this is where europe is called into question. attempts to distort our history are threatening our foundations. disinformation and fake news attack our past but also, and first of all, our present. our democracies must be harnessed to respond to this challenge and they must themselves adapt. online platforms have been misused to disseminate and amplify manipulative messages to distort the democratic debate and interfere in the political process. for four out of five europeans, disinformation is a problem for democracy. we must ensure that democracy remains well protected in europe. to better harness our democracy, the commission will put forward a european democracy action plan. it will help counter disinformation and support free and independent media and will also aim to ensure greater transparency of paid political advertising and provide clearer rules on the financing of eu political parties. transparency and accountability is essential, as well as not allowing external interventions in our democratic systems by those who wish to divide and destabilise our union. this is a common priority for the commission, european institutions and the member states. as we see minorities under pressure again today, we must raise our voices and redouble our efforts to ensure that europeans can go about their lives free from the threat of anti-semitism, racism and xenophobic hatred. the commission is looking forward to working with the european parliament and in particular the anti-racism and diversity intergroup and the working group on anti-semitism.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i have listened to many speeches, but one that will stay with me for a long time to come was given by marian turski last month, 75 years after he, weighing all of 32 kilos, walked out of auschwitz. he called for an end to indifference. ‘auschwitz did not fall from the sky,’ he said. it happened slowly, because too many people turned a blind eye to justice, too many people found comfort in scapegoats, and too many people accepted prejudiced laws. that is why we fight anti-semitism, racism and any hatred everywhere today, because in europe we know only too well the depths of horror that man has sunk to and can sink to. if we teach people not only about what happened, but about how it happened, slowly through gradually increasing measures, then maybe we can truly learn the lessons of history, even when the voices of the survivors can be heard no more. now, today, we still witness attacks on jews and synagogues in europe, we still see the scapegoating going on, and we are still seeing states move slowly away from the values this union was founded upon. we see our fundamental rights under threat in too many places. so we cannot be silent when europeans live with a packed suitcase by their door, just in case. we cannot be silent in the face of injustice anywhere. let no one fighting for justice ever look to europe and be met as they have been met – with shrugs of shoulders or excuses that favour political expediency. our european history has too often been built on the backs of the broken. when we say ‘never again’, we must mean it, and that means taking action. and in conclusion, roman kent coined the eleventh commandment: ‘thou shalt not be indifferent’. may it become our guiding principle.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, 75 years ago we europeans agreed on ‘never again’, and yet in 2020 anti-semitism is on the rise. hatred and intolerance across the european union are on a trend of steady growth. political parties, also in this house, fuel a climate of racism and anti-immigration with their rhetoric, be it against jews, muslims, migrants, roma or lgbti people. we cannot tolerate populist rhetoric, prejudice and nationalism to become part of mainstream politics; to become the new normal. we cannot allow far-right parties, such as the afd in germany, fidesz in hungary, lega in italy, to become the dominant voice of our public debates. as progressives, we will always stand up for freedom: freedom for all to be who you want to be, to believe what you want to believe. we need stronger commitments in the eu against hate speech and racism, and we will continue to fight for an eu in which minorities and vulnerable groups are protected from any form of discrimination. an eu with respect for rule of law and not the rule of a majority. we believe in a european union in which we actually do justice to 75 years of liberation; in an eu where we stand up, we speak up and act when fellow europeans are discriminated against.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, he would have been 37 years old. ilan halimi was kidnapped because he was jewish. burned, stabbed, tortured to death for three weeks in a slum in the paris region. that was 14 years ago, almost a day ago. his murder strips us of a small part of our humanity. sarah halimi would have been 66 years old. she was beaten to death, too, because she was jewish, and then defended by kobili traoré. that trial will not take place, he was declared criminally irresponsible because he was under the influence of cannabis. cannabis, stupidity, ignorance as extenuating circumstances... that is some strange jurisprudence. anti-semitism is deadly. today, once again, europeans are afraid because they are jews, and many are leaving. today, schools, synagogues and cemeteries still need to be protected. one third of europeans say they know little or nothing about the holocaust. remembering, educating, is essential, but it's not enough. barring the path to racist violence that is gangrenous in schools, cities, social networks, is not tolerating, it is condemning, punishing. the eyes of the world were on jerusalem 15 days ago. fifty heads of state had travelled to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz and made a formal pledge: never again. the hungarian president was. yet two days ago - i conclude, mr president - in budapest, several thousand nazis came from all over europe to parade in front of the police for their "day of honour", i quote, a shameful tribute to their heroes of the third reich. commissioner, we all know about your commitment. can we really say today that europe is doing enough?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european union's role in the world economy. it is not much better in this parliament. everywhere you look you see racists, anti-semites and nazis. but the real problem is rarely or never mentioned: the mass influx of muslim racists who are responsible for 99% of anti-semitic violence in the european union. that's the truth. colleagues, stop chasing after nazi specimens. you're basically running a war. i must also remind you to stop calling right-wing nationalist colleagues racists when they choose to defend their own people and protect our borders. there are different cultures and religions, and there is a solution to the problems that arise from that: the limits.
madam president, the next seven years will be crucial. they will determine how our children will live on this planet. our societies have to undergo a digital and ecological transition in a socially fair way, and we need sufficient funds for this. the eu budget is more than a membership fee. it is the mirror of our political ambitions. therefore, a massive investment boost is needed without necessarily increasing member states’ resources. we shouldn’t be afraid to go and get own resources from plastic polluters, carbon emissions, big financial transactions, and a fair share from multinationals and kerosene because, if we don’t find additional money to realise the ambitions of the green deal, citizens will feel it. they will see fewer infrastructure works happening in their region or have fewer opportunities to get reskilled after they have lost their jobs. if we want our citizens to embrace the european project, this must be reflected in our budget.
mr president, the digital divide is increasingly shifting from those who have or do not have access to the internet to those who can or cannot use it. digitalization works like a speedboat: e-learning, e-banking, e-commerce, e-government, if we don't look back, people are going to fall off the boat. if you're not fast enough, you can't catch him. we often think spontaneously of people with low education or lack of financial resources who are missing the digital boat, and rightly so: the digital gaps are very pronounced and difficult to close. but the challenges go beyond that. today, my garage is a computer specialist, my child care worker is a data analyst. more than nine out of ten new jobs require digital skills, but 40% of europeans are not or insufficiently digital literate. you quoted the figures yourself. the european commission's digital action plan should therefore invest in people's computer and internet skills and provide alternatives. the european social fund must invest in digital training, even in unexpected places, and we must be ready with the globalisation fund to help those who lose their jobs because of digitalisation to find new ones. the european parliament has understood. the commission obviously does too. i hope the council will follow suit.
in writing. in the context of digitalisation, we often only stress that robotization is a threat to jobs or that workers' digital literacy is low. that's right, which is why we need to put a lot of emphasis on training. however, we should also not forget that the development of the digital world can bring tangible results to users without them understanding how it works. there is now a consensus that the autonomy of people with disabilities can be improved by appropriate technologies. my country is a very good example of this: it is unique in europe that in hungary deaf people can handle their affairs at government offices without obstacles, thanks to the kontakt online video-based sign language interpretation service developed by the national association of the deaf and hard of hearing (sinosz). in addition, the távszem service has been developed under the auspices of the hungarian national association of the blind and visually impaired (mvgyosz) to support the accessibility of visually impaired people. and of course, we can't ignore the privacy risks, either, of fear that discrimination against minorities will be built into algorithms based on automated decision-making, as we've seen in the unfortunate example of ai-based recruitment tools or eligibility criteria for insurance or financial services. these need to be prevented and it is therefore important to provide appropriate legal safeguards. we must also address the situation of platform workers: they must also be provided with adequate social protection and the right to switch off their computers and rest.
the european parliament has played a key role in defining the legislative framework for the digital and energy transitions, promoting an articulated approach and valuing the social impact of technological transformation and process modernisation as tools to tackle inequalities and increase opportunities for european citizens. the introduction of the so-called internet of things, with speeds and processing and transmission capacities exponentially higher than those available today, is not just a technological or economic challenge. it is above all a political and social challenge. the debate on the social dimension of just transition is therefore very timely. the values shared in the analogue world must be transposed into the digital world, taking advantage of the transition to correct distortions. this can be achieved through three structural lines of action. using the common heritage of shared values and principles as the basis for a practice based on ethics and prioritising solutions for citizens, making high-quality internet access universal and developing networks of widespread qualification of populations to deal with the new technological, social, economic and political context.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on gender equality strategy (2020/2515(rsp)). i remind you that it’s possible to request catch-the-eye and blue cards using both the standard registration and the electronic system. instructions are available at the entrance of the hemicycle.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for putting the gender equality strategy on today’s agenda. the first months since the start of the commission mandate i have had the opportunity to meet many of you already. all the exchanges we have had have confirmed that all of us, together, have so much work to do in this area of policy. i am grateful for the support you have shown me and this commission on many occasions. the european union and its citizens need your full support in making europe an equal place for women and men in all their diversity. gender equality is a founding principle of the european union. europe is a good place to live for many, but it would be an understatement to say that we are still not there yet when it comes to gender equality. women are still being underpaid compared to men. one in three women in the eu have experienced physical or sexual violence, or both since the age of 15 – and that’s millions of women. we cannot accept these appalling inequalities. president von der leyen, vice-president jourová, and the whole college support me and this fight for equality. gender equality is a key theme in the mandate of this commission and the first key milestone will be the launch of the gender equality strategy. the adoption is foreseen for the week of international women’s day in early march. the strategy will underpin the political commitment to gender equality and support strategic and systematic work for gender equality in the union and beyond. we are aiming at an ambitious strategy. in the context of a visible and organised movement opposing progress in women’s rights and gender equality which has emerged in recent years in europe and internationally, it is more important now than ever to restate in the strongest of terms the commission’s continuing commitment to gender equality. there has been a wide consultation on the strategy, including a public consultation that gathered more than 1 300 responses. as gender equality is a cross-cutting issue, the strategy will strengthen the commission’s dual approach of gender mainstreaming combined with targeted actions on specific topics. we aim to introduce a more systematic approach at an early stage of policy design to include a gender perspective in all eu policy areas. as regards content, we intend to present a positive future-oriented vision for a gender equal europe – a europe where women and men, girls and boys, in all their diversity, are free from gender-based violence and gender stereotypes, where they have the opportunity to thrive in the labour market, lead our businesses, politics and participate equally in all sectors. important horizontal considerations that will be emphasised in the strategy are challenging gender stereotypes and intersectionality. in terms of topics, the strategy will address the priorities highlighted in the president’s political guidelines – increasing women’s economic-empowerment by closing the gender pay gap, including by introducing binding pay-transparency measures, getting better gender balance on company boards and improving parents’ and carers’ work-life balance. we also continue our efforts to combat violence against women. eu accession to the istanbul convention therefore remains a priority. if eu accession remains blocked in the council, despite our joint efforts, we will table legislative proposals to strengthen the victims’ rights directive and include or add specific forms of gender-based violence to the list of eu crimes. we shall also address other important and emerging aspects of gender equality, such as online violence against women or the gender perspective in digitalisation, including an artificial intelligence to avoid bias. together with the adoption of the strategy, we will launch a wide-ranging and inclusive consultation process on binding pay transparency measures which we aim to table by the end of the year. i am aware that introducing binding pay-transparency measures can be challenging, and i want to find the right balance for such eu intervention, taking into account the interests of employers, employees and national administrations. i look forward to hearing your views and discussing with you. i sincerely hope to get your support so we, as the eu, can make the so much needed leap towards a gender equal europe in a more gender equal world.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission as a whole for placing gender equality so high on the european agenda. gender equality is one of the fundamental values on which this european union is founded. well, a score of 67.4 on the latest european gender index shows that we are far from there. we therefore call for an ambitious strategy that takes strong steps forward. women's talents are still an under-exploited source of expertise, creativity and transformative power. a comprehensive gender strategy will streamline policy around three main axes: creating opportunities for women, keeping women on board in a fast-changing world - we think of digitalisation, migration and climate change, and we also need to take into account new forms of work such as platform workers. and thirdly, to pay attention to the vulnerability of women. we must therefore tackle the new gender strategy that sets out the lines for a gender-equal europe in the years ahead. this means in concrete terms the elimination of the gender pay gap and the gender pension gap. empowering women economically and eradicating poverty. promoting female entrepreneurship, combating violence against women, breaking gender stereotypes and further implementing the social pillar, in particular the work-life balance directive. it is only a glimpse of the concrete measures. one thing is certain: a european union that gives women the opportunities they deserve will be more social, resilient and stronger.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you all for your valid contributions and yes, it’s 2020 and we are still discussing the rights of more than half the world’s population. we’re discussing rights which men take for granted. i really thank you all for the call also for more men to take part in debates regarding gender equality. we all have mothers, some of us have daughters and we are speaking about more than half the population. one of the men here said feminism is not just for women, but for the whole of society. so yes, as has rightly been pointed out, yes, when we are discussing war and armaments, which will kill people like you and me, then many men contribute there. i don’t wish for more women to contribute there but less men. i want to all of us to discuss peace but this is the reality, so it’s important that we point this out and that we look at gender equality as something for all of us, for all of our societies, for all of europe, for all the world. the new gender equality strategy will address the many topics which you have highlighted and what was highlighted in the president’s political guidelines. i will set out an ambitious agenda for combating and preventing all forms of violence against women, including online violence. i will present a legislative proposal to ensure better transparency on pay levels in in european businesses and organisations and take other non-legislative measures to close the gender pay gap. i want to finally get to eu rules adopted to ensure progress on gender balance on company boards, because we know that targets work. i want to make sure that the work-life balance directive is implemented in the member states to help women and men reconcile work and caring responsibilities. also, i want all major eu policy initiatives to be assessed from a gender lens. i will ensure that the commission’s work on gender mainstreaming is more comprehensive and systematic than has been previously been the case. we must pay attention to the gender and equality perspective when addressing some of our society’s main challenges, such as digitalisation and transition to a greener economy, as was mentioned also here. and yes, we are targeting the feminisation of poverty. the gender gap in poverty is, after all, the result of the many inequalities women and girls face in all spheres of life. i reiterate that i count on the strong support of parliament because equality for all its citizens is one of the founding values of the eu, and we need to make this a reality, all of us together, for all of our citizens.
in writing. on 4 march, the european strategy for gender equality (2020-2024) will be published, with the aim of eradicating the unacceptable discrimination still persisting in europe between men and women in the labour market, on the pay, social and cultural levels. it is hoped that this will be an ambitious strategy, including legal and non-legal measures to combat the gender pay gap and the resulting pension gap, to ensure gender equality in top positions in the public and private sectors, and to eradicate indirect discrimination caused by lack of access to care services, which make it possible to reconcile family and professional life in practice, particularly in the presence of children, the elderly or the disabled; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. it is also imperative to take more decisive measures to prevent the list of crimes, often announced, of which too many women are victims, from getting longer. the dramatic extent of this phenomenon affects every member state. it is therefore necessary to establish that all violence against women is a criminal offence within the meaning of article 83 tfeu and to promote that socio-cultural change without which any legislative measure can only have a limited effect.
in writing. gender equality is a founding principle of the european union, but it is not respected in many areas of social life. in europe too, we have women with limited rights, who live in conditions of economic inequality, who are not adequately represented in decision-making processes, who are underpaid in the workplace, who suffer discrimination and violence not only physical but also moral and sexual. in the new strategy for gender equality announced by the european commission, we will need, in addition to declarations of principle, the provision of tools to fight a two-pronged battle: it must be conducted both in terms of rights, with binding measures, and in terms of culture, the main source of gender inequalities.
in writing. – the phenomenon of sexual exploitation is full of gender inequality. the majority of humans providing sexual services are women and a majority of them are trafficked into the sex industry by male pimps. these women are victims of sexual trafficking and exploitation. of all the registered victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation in europe, 95% are female. unfortunately, roma are one of the most vulnerable and more affected group. paternalistic societies are at the core of that. the demand for sexual services is also mostly coming from men. this means there are several types of power imbalances between men and women in the sex industry. these women also suffer emotional and physical abuse. violence against women is also a part of gender inequality. this gender inequality is a european problem; trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation is a transnational problem. the victims are trafficked across europe. human trafficking and sexual exploitation are fuelled by prostitution. the reintegration of victims of human trafficking can be added to the gender equality strategy as well, so as to facilitate and encourage the member states to support such programmes.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are celebrating the 25th anniversary of a document that so comprehensively and clearly sums up and defines women's rights as no other document has ever done. the beijing declaration, adopted at the fourth world conference on women in beijing, remains one of the most progressive, comprehensive and clearly formulated documents on women's rights in existence. all areas of life are covered, full equality of women with men is meant whether young or old, rich or poor, whether women living in peace, women living in war, public or private life comprehensively and progressively, all participating governments declared in 1995: we recognize women's rights as human rights. we have a 25-year-old magna carta of women, which makes all women's rights human rights and equals women with men in all spheres of life. the declaration provides comprehensive action directives to all governments, ngos and involves all other multi-level stakeholders in the proposed actions. 189 governments have committed to working together to implement the rights of women around the world, and every five years since then, progress has been reviewed. the main point i want to make about the declaration is that we are constantly talking about equal rights for women. "equal power" is a modern wording. whereas full and explicit recognition and affirmation of the right of all women to control all aspects of their health, in particular their own fertility, is a fundamental prerequisite for their equality of power; that there is full and equal access to economic resources, to land, to credit, to science and technology, to vocational training, to information, to communication, to markets - so i quote from that. but 25 years after the adoption of the directive, a bad judgment must be made. no country has achieved full equality for women. no country - not even the states of the european union - can guarantee women's self-determination over their bodies. we as the european union are stuck when it comes to joint action on equality for women and cannot boast of being a well-off region. the gender balance on boards directive, which aims to empower women in decision-making positions, has been blocked for eight years. this year it should have been fully implemented throughout europe. we do not have perfect equality in access to goods and services. discrimination still exists, and areas such as advertising are excluded. we have clearly a europe-wide discrimination in earnings. even after adjusting the figures, we see that the wage gap is still very wide. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. these examples, these figures are an embarrassment to europe and to most governments. i am rightly critical of the council, of the governments which are obliged to give equal representation, equal support and positive encouragement to half their population, namely their female citizens, until full equality is achieved. traditional, cultural, religious machismo still prevents, and more than ever, the dismantling of patriarchal power structures, and assigns women less human value than men. that is why we must fight, especially at european level, to guarantee women's rights as human rights. that is why we must not allow backsliding within the eu in individual member states or as a common global actor in the rest of the world. i'm warning you. it's about half the population! do not ignore the human rights of women! we know that the beijing declaration of 1995 does not bind governments, but we women of the world have a document in our hands that gives international legitimacy. we will not let go, we will fight for real progress. the document must now be brought to life. the united nations is now fully behind the move. the un needs the cooperation of governments. it is setting up action coalitions, involvement mexico and paris i would mention , closer monitoring of progress and implementation is necessary. i therefore appeal to the honourable members to support my two amendments on action coalitions in the vote on the request tomorrow. we in the european parliament want strong participation and a multilateral approach. the united nations is about cooperation, common purpose, and common action. as the european union, we must do our utmost to achieve this together and in diversity. (applause from the centre)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for this opportunity to exchange views on the next session of the un commission on the status of women. i shall also touch on the question of gender equality more broadly. 2020 is a pivotal year for the realisation of gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls everywhere. it will also be the year of a series of milestone anniversaries relevant to gender equality. we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of the un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security; the fifth anniversary of the sustainable development goals; and not least, the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration and platform for action. gender equality matters to all our citizens. it is not just a women’s issue but a social issue and also an economic issue: allowing everyone an equal chance to contribute brings significant benefits in terms of our economic strength. the upcoming session of the commission on the status of women will be dedicated to the beijing declaration and platform for action. at the next session of the commission on the status of women, we should identify gaps in the implementation of the beijing declaration and platform for action and reconfirm the full validity of the commitments undertaken 25 years ago. we should re-energise international efforts towards gender equality, the full enjoyment of all human rights by all women and girls and their empowerment. the un secretary-general highlighted that process and progress in many areas is lagging behind. this is in particular the case concerning the exposure of women and girls to extreme poverty and violence against women and girls. we also continue to have a gender gap in labour force participation and under-representation in decision-making and a leadership role across all sectors. the eu will set the bar high in all these areas. they should be backed up by substantial financial resources. when it comes to the negotiation of the political declaration, the eu will demonstrate its strong leadership role on gender equality. the eu’s agreed position is rooted in the eu’s legal and policy framework and is intended to guide our negotiators in new york. some of the most critical issues include the following: equality and non-discrimination, sexual and gender-based violence, family and family oriented policies, health, education, social protection, decent work, sexual and reproductive health and rights as per the new european consensus on development, and desegregated data collection. furthermore, the position paper also includes guiding principles on climate change and information and communication technology. the eu will make every effort to ensure that past achievements are safeguarded and that further progress is achieved on the road to full equality among women and men. the eu will also strive for a political declaration which recognises women civil society organisations and women human rights defenders. they play a critical role in the promotion, protection and fulfilment of the human rights of all women and girls. the eu will therefore pledge to continue supporting civil society and ensuring a safe and enabling environment for them to operate effectively at local, national, regional and global levels. as to the eu’s political statement at the opening session, we are convinced that the european parliament and the council share the same values and interests and the same priorities. we therefore look forward to hearing your suggestions today. president, honourable members, on the issue of gender equality more broadly, you rightly underlined in your question for today’s debate that gender equality is not a separate domain, but one that cuts across the whole of society and the economy. progress in this field, therefore, requires the integration of gender equality goals into all relevant strategies and policy goals. in other words, we need gender mainstreaming as well as specific actions. precisely in this spirit, in its conclusions from december last year, the council called on the new commission to adopt a stand-alone, high-level eu gender equality strategy and i’m delighted that the commission has undertaken to do just that. the council, furthermore, called for an effective and systematic implementation of gender mainstreaming in all policy areas. the council also called on the commission and the member states to pursue a stronger focus on gender equality within the different phases of the european semester process. finally, a few words about the council’s work programme in the months to come. we of course look forward to the initiatives that the commission has announced, such as measures relating to pay transparency. meanwhile, as you are aware, gender equality and non-discrimination is one of the priorities of the croatian presidency. we intend to table a set of council conclusions on the impact of long-term care on work-life balance, as we all know women perform a far greater share of informal care work than men and this limits their ability to participate in the labour market. on 30 january the croatian presidency organised a high-level conference on the topic: participation of women on the labour market – benefit for society! it’s results will be discussed within the un commission on the status of women. while a lot has been done, there is still a long way to go in order to achieve full equality both within the eu and especially beyond its borders.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members. thank you for including the preparation of the un’s 64th session of the commission on the status of women (csw) in today’s agenda. this is very good timing. the negotiations on the political declaration and the preparation of the eu statements are ongoing, and the aim is that the csw will start with a strong and action-oriented political declaration focused on the implementation of the existing commitments. at the same time, we are preparing our side events, which will be melting—pots for good practices and new ideas on how to take the beijing agenda forward. this is the strength of the csw – a place to meet and discuss gender-equality which many actors in the field. the session will celebrate the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration and platform for action. we also celebrate the 75th anniversary of the united nations and the 5th anniversary of the sustainable development goals. gender-equality and the empowerment of women and girls is not only a question of justice. it also makes economic sense to ensure that women and men, girls and boys, reach their full potential. i have read with great interest the report of the un secretary-general on the state of play with regard to the situation of women and girls in the world. it is a good, nuanced report based on 167 national reviews and regional review meetings, which took place in various regions across the globe. while we have seen some progress, we have not advanced as much as we wanted to. female labour market participation was increasing, but has stagnated over the last five years. women still carry out a disproportionate share of household work and care. women’s and girls’ voices and participation are far from being on an equal footing to those of boys and men. women are 25% more likely to live in poverty. gender stereotypes still determine the paths of women and girls. gender-based violence is a recurrent issue. next to this, new issues are emerging like climate-change and digital technologies. we must turn these changes into opportunities. digitalisation can open doors for women and girls, but can also be misused to silence them. as the un secretary-general highlighted, gender-equality and empowerment of women and girls is crucial to an economically uncertain world with increasing polarisation, environmental threats and conflict. the unequal distribution of power, resources and opportunities perpetuates gender-inequalities. i welcome very much the input of the european parliament, including your forthcoming resolution on this topic, and the parliament’s presence during this csw. gender-equality is a priority for the european commission, both in our internal and external relations and actions. the commission will present a new gender-equality strategy in march, and still in 2020, launch the third action plan on gender-equality and women’s empowerment in external relations. a stronger, ambitious and holistic approach will address the issues identified globally and for the eu. our approach will be based on gender—mainstreaming in all policy areas. the task force on equality, with members drawn from all the commission’s services and the european external action service, will be fundamental for this. next to this, targeted actions on specific gender—equality issues will continue. we will continue to tackle the gender pay—gap and introduce pay transparency measures. we will continue to develop measures to end gender-based violence. we will continue to push for gender-balanced company boards. i am looking forward to hearing your views and discussing these ideas. thank you again for putting the csw on today’s agenda. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what this debate today shows very clearly is what we must do together as the european parliament, the commission and the council, with a strong and united voice, in the framework of the un, and that is to fight backlash, to fight the ridicule of the fight for equality, and to fight for international equality for women in all areas. the beijing declaration is the world's most comprehensive policy framework for achieving equality, and 25 years later, we as europeans have an obligation to stand out clearly as global pioneers of multilateralism and to act in unison. we in the european parliament are taking a clear stand with a resolution which we are going to adopt tomorrow, and i hope that the council and the council are also being asked to take a clear stand here and to commit themselves to the beijing platform for action and to position the eu as a leader in gender equality.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission on women's rights and equality discriminates against minority political groups and denies them the right to represent voters at the annual commission on the status of women conference in new york. you guys really feel good about this? and that's why conservative women who want to balance work and family life will not be heard at the conference. women who don't see marriage and motherhood as the proverbial ball of twine that gets in the way of a career. nor will there be a voice saying that life must be protected, that life is a miracle, and that it is the highest value. on the other hand, the left-liberal circles that seek to recognize abortion as a human right and a method of family planning, as well as those who seek to sexualize children and manipulate sexuality, will have a very strong voice. that's why i'm calling for a rethink. so please vote for a resolution that, without any unnecessary ideology, expresses concern for the future of women. this is a resolution of the ecr.
mr. chairman, please! the conclusion of the latest report prepared by the international humanitarian organization oxfam for the recent davos summit is unequivocal: the world economy is based largely on the exploitation of women. it turns out that investing in equality is paying off less and less, and that's because women and girls around the world do more than three-quarters of the unpaid care work, or 12.5 billion hours of unpaid work. that is why equal pay, the elimination of barriers for women with disabilities, violence, the professional empowerment of women over 50, the declining participation of women in the labour market, women's poverty, access to the labour market and the empowerment of women from rural and remote areas, the impact of climate change on poverty, women's physical and mental health are all topics that will certainly be addressed at the 64th session of the un, and i hope that we will be able to find effective solutions and also adopt forward-looking commitments in the political declaration.
the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. twenty-five years after beijing, on the occasion of the fourth world conference on women, women and girls around the world are still not getting the opportunities they deserve. gender equality is more than just fighting for parity on boards or breaking the glass ceiling. it presupposes international solidarity with all women, from the north, the east, the south and the west. the next meeting in new york will force us to pay particular attention to and take political action on behalf of women in vulnerable positions, and i really want to see vulnerability translated properly. it is about women in poverty, women who are victims of war, exploitation of domestic workers. we must take the lead as the european union and speak with a strong and unambiguous voice, preferably with a megaphone. i'd like to close with a quote from michelle obama: to echo michelle obama, when you have worked hard and walked through that doorway of opportunity, you reach back and give other women the same chances that helped you succeed.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your good cooperation on this matter. it is a technical matter, but it does call for some more political considerations. while we understand the legal reasons for the change in the legal basis, we regret that frontex is entrusted with the management of this database. we will of course be careful that this does not augur a strengthening of the mandate of the agency. fado is not a tool to combat migration, but an instrument to combat forged documents in general. the overall compromise is balanced, in particular by the introduction of safeguards so that third parties, the airlines of third countries, can access the database, but with limited access. although the database contains very little personal data, it was felt necessary to make it impossible to identify the person by means of the fado documents, which is now the case. finally, we will follow closely the publication of the various delegated acts.
mr president, we all know that the biggest fault of the anti—money laundering directive lies in the member states; in poor implementation, lacking european powers on european prudential supervision, poor cooperation between financial intelligence units, the limited scope of powers of the financial intelligence unit platform to set standards. we know that the system is not working, because it’s not made to be working. that is the reason, once again reminded, how ineffective we are. what i do hope is that the commission would consider seriously chasing the anti-money laundering directive to be a regulation and to increase substantially the transparency of the beneficial ownership registers, increase the european prudential supervision, and to really set the system on place to function.
mr president, commissioner dalli, welcome to this debate on anti-money laundering, which is not the first, it has a long history, because before luanda leaks there were lux leaks and there were panama leaks, and there was a study and inquiry committee, of which i was a member, which drew conclusions and mandated action for the commission. that is why we have moved from the fourth to the fifth anti-money laundering directive, which reinforces transparency and the identification of the beneficiaries of the accounts; because each of these cases i have just mentioned worsens the background of corruption and influence peddling. the luanda leaks case is paroxysmal because it affects the richest woman in africa - the daughter of angola's former president. but there is another mandate: to protect whistleblowers to whistleblowers, because it is intolerable that there are countries that have not transposed the directive on whistleblowers among them, portugal, and it turns out that rui pinto, the whistleblower, is the one who is in prison, when the one who should be in prison is not the whistleblower, but criminals and delinquents.
mr president, in recent years money laundering has been increasingly carried out through the major banks in europe, and it is time that the directors of those banks were given prison sentences instead of bonuses. i would like to add that, very briefly.
mr. chairman, what we are witnessing here is international criminal activity and at the same time our limited powers and ability to deal with this situation. this is a white collar crime that is very sophisticated, and i would like to thank, of course, the journalists who helped expose this activity, and also the whistleblowers. it shows how we have significant gaps in whistleblower protection in the international arena. at the same time, it is shocking to me how many european structures, namely banking or trust structures, have been involved in covering up the very essence of money laundering and illegal activities within angola. what about it? we have five directives, it seems that we need to overcome fragmentation, we need to implement better. it is certainly necessary to give the competent authorities more powers and, in my view, above all, to ensure profits. it is not possible to hedge profits at such a negligible percentage as shown, for example, in the above cases.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of the commission, i thank the european parliament for taking the time to debate this topical matter, and for its commitment to further strengthening all our tools to deal with situations such as the one at stake. we need to act upon all these findings, and i am confident that we have already identified the way to ensure that the union’s financial systems’ integrity is more effectively protected. we are determined to work with international partners on new threats from innovation and it is critical to already deploy all our efforts to ensure the current legislative framework is applied fully, and correctly. this also includes protection of whistleblowers and to give renewed impetus to the role of the union in ensuring more effective and coordinated action.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i have followed this debate with great attention, and i have also heard the input from the commission. i take this opportunity to reaffirm the importance which the presidency attaches to the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism, and i look forward to our continued work on these matters. the presidency will remain available for exchanges on the subject as needed.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the european commission has suggested that a more effective way for the eu to tackle money laundering and terrorist financing would be to significantly strengthen regulation at eu level and to bring supervisory functions to eu level. i am concerned about the transfer of supervisory functions to new eu-level institutions, as the current situation does not suggest that this would necessarily be the solution. instead, the aim is to strengthen national authorities and to increase cooperation between them. national authorities are able to meet the challenges; they are in close contact with banks, insurance companies, lawyers on a daily basis and have detailed and up-to-date knowledge of local conditions. the efficiency of a central supervisory body should not be equal to that of the member states' institutions. any further action should be based on an assessment of the current situation and take account of the practical functioning of the eu regulatory elements already adopted. moreover, we have no experience of how the newly introduced legislation works in practice. the further development of the eu's anti-money laundering system is of course key. however, consideration should be given to approaches that take into account the specificities of the member states and continue to provide the necessary flexibility for the member states.
the agenda includes the debate on the council and commission statements on the humanitarian situation of refugees at the eu's external borders (2020/2523 ((rsp)). i would remind you that it is possible to submit requests for assistance under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure and 'blue card' applications using both the 'standard registration' system and the electronic system, which i would urge you to try. the instructions are available at the entrance to our hemicycle.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is the second time under our presidency that we have the possibility to discuss in the plenary the humanitarian situation of refugees at our external borders. this shows the importance parliament attaches to this issue and we fully support it. our presidency is closely monitoring events on all migratory routes and will continue to do so throughout this semester. in 2019, the total number of illegal border crossings at the eu external borders was estimated at 139 000 which is a 6% decrease compared to 2018 and the lowest level in six years. however, while the central and western mediterranean routes saw a decrease of 40% and 50% respectively compared to 2018, arrivals on the eastern mediterranean route have increased by 50%. the situation on the greek islands is, in particular, a source of concern as we all noted during our last debate in the plenary on 29 january. the number of people present on the aegean islands reached a peak of over 40 000 migrants. it is the first time since the implementation of the eu-turkey statement that we have reached such a high number. the greek government is taking concrete measures to improve the situation. it has announced a new national strategy designed to protect minors who have arrived and who are resident in greece and it aims to increase the number of transfers to the mainland. in 2019, more than 35 000 migrants have been transferred and these transfers have continued at a fast pace since the beginning of 2020. arrivals from the eastern mediterranean route have direct impact on the flow of migrants in south east europe. in 2019, there were over 14 000 illegal border crossings on the western balkan route, which represents 140% increase compared to 2018. since the beginning of 2020, the pressure on this route has decreased, due also to winter conditions. nevertheless, this winter the pressure is higher when compared to the previous winter. our presidency will continue to devote much attention to the migratory situation and increasing migration management capacities in the entire western balkan region, with a particular focus on bosnia and herzegovina in order to ensure adequate protection of migrant population where, according to unhcr, more than 8 000 migrants and refugees are currently present, mainly in the north west. the situation in the country remains challenging, but in the last weeks, there have been some positive developments regarding the increase of adequate reception capacities. on 3 february, the croatian interior minister božinović, held a meeting with the new bosnian minister of security, mr radončić. the ministers agreed to strengthen the cooperation in several key areas: implementation of accelerated readmission procedures, more intense implementation of mixed border patrols and support of the republic of croatia in strengthening the bosnia-herzegovina security forces in border control. the ministers also agreed to strengthen the cooperation in combating smuggling networks, which was also a topic of a ministerial debate at the informal meeting of eu interior ministers in zagreb on 24 january 2020. minister radončić commented that bosnia-herzegovina lacks over one thousand border guard for better border control, as well as the 93% of eu funds approved to bosnia and herzegovina last year were intended for humanitarian treatment of migrants but only 7% to strengthen security forces. the eu will continue to support bosnia and herzegovina in its efforts to guarantee the dignity and safety of all migrants, especially the most vulnerable ones, while at the same time seeking a more permanent and comprehensive solution. we will also continue to support work with all partners in the western balkans. the overreaching goal of our efforts is to ensure that the migration flows at our borders are well managed and migrants’ fundamental rights are always respected. we expect the recent measures taken by the greek government to bring positive change. the new asylum legislation which has recently entered into force in greece should speed up the streamline of both asylum and return procedures. the return rate has been very low for far too long. returns are instrumental in managing the migratory flows. the plan of the greek government to return 10 000 migrants by the end of 2020 is ambitious but it can be achieved, also with necessary eu support. effective returns also require the good cooperation of turkey. to ensure that the situation is well managed, it is also important that our western balkan partners enhance their migration management capacities, also in the area of return and particularly assisted voluntary return, conclude readmission agreements with third countries and further align their visa policies. we are ready to assist them in these tasks by all means at our disposal. on the central mediterranean route, conditions for migrants in libya have deteriorated due to security issues arising from the internal conflict in the country. to alleviate the suffering of migrants and detained refugees in libya, the eu individual member states have funded unhcr and international organisation for migration (iom) programmes via eu trust fund for africa. iom is funded to carry out voluntary returns to countries of origin and to provide humanitarian emergency assistance and has done so at an impressive level. unhcr is funded to evacuate persons of concern to either niger or rwanda in view to a settlement in the eu or other receiving countries. these relevant actions require our further support, especially in view of ongoing conflicts in libya. to conclude, i would like to stress once again that the humanitarian situation at our external borders is a cause of great concern and we have to work closely together with our neighbouring countries and international organisations to improve it. let me also express here our appreciation for the work of all humanitarian partners. i will let the commission further elaborate on the comprehensive assistance the eu provides at our external borders to improve the situation.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you minister and honourable members for this important debate. the humanitarian situation of refugees at our external borders is of great importance and of concern to us all. the eu promotes the respect of the rights of refugees, asylum seekers and migrants, both in the eu and outside of our borders in our neighbourhood. any form of violence against refugees and migrants is, needless to say, unacceptable. respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law must be ensured without exception. member states must fully comply with these principles when implementing the eu acquis on border management, asylum and return. pushbacks are not acceptable. access to asylum procedures and respect for the principle of non-refoulement, in line with the eu charter, must always be guaranteed. member states must have in place the mechanisms needed to prevent pushbacks in the first place. equally, they need to ensure that they have appropriate mechanisms to guarantee a prompt reply and investigate any alleged pushbacks. but challenges at external borders are many, and the commission is in constant contact with member states and provides them with support, including financial support for training the national border guards to act in conformity with fundamental rights requirements. the commission is also closely monitoring the situation at external borders and is in contact with member states regarding allegations of non-compliance with eu law at the external borders. as guardian of the treaty, the commission will take the necessary action where necessary. moreover, we now have in place a new european border and coast guard agency with a significantly reinforced mandate and an increased focus on the imperious need to respect fundamental rights. it is for this reason that a specific fundamental rights strategy has been drawn up by the new european border and coast guard agency. a fundamental rights officer was appointed to contribute to the agency’s fundamental rights strategy and monitor compliance with fundamental rights. fundamental rights monitors will also constantly assess the fundamental rights compliance of frontex operational activities. they will be deployed as part of the joint operations and they will be the eyes and ears of the fundamental rights officer. the agency must recruit 40 monitors by 5 december of this year. the new agency has also set up a complaints mechanism. this mechanism allows any person who is directly affected by the actions of staff involved in the activities of the agency and who considers himself or herself to have been the subject of a breach of his or her fundamental rights due to those actions, or to any party representing such a person, to submit a complaint in writing to the agency. what happens at our external borders affects europe. this is why the eu has always supported and also always stood at the side of our partners at the external borders as well as at the side of refugees and migrants in those countries. the eu is globally a key actor in providing assistance to refugees worldwide, especially in neighbouring countries, and in supporting third countries in developing their asylum system and their capacities to fight against smuggling. for instance, the eu supports turkey in its efforts to host more than 4 million refugees. the eur 6 billion facility for refugees in turkey has been fully mobilised and clearly produces tangible effects. over 1.7 million vulnerable refugees benefit from the emergency social safety net, the largest eu humanitarian project ever. the eu is also supporting more than 500 000 refugees’ children to regularly attend school. our western balkan partners have proven to be reliable and strong partners of the eu in managing migration and countering security challenges. however, reception capacities, in particular in serbia and bosnia and herzegovina, are stretched to the maximum, and migrants are often living in extremely difficult conditions. further capacity assistance is needed to help these countries to pursue their efforts to manage migration, addressing the issue of secondary movements in the region and treating migrants in a humane manner. to support all these actions, the eu provides financial and technical support to the western balkans through the regional programmes funded under the instrument for pre-accession so that they increase their capacity to build their national migration management system. in addition, the eu has recently provided eur 135 million in additional assistance to serbia, north macedonia and bosnia and herzegovina through the instrument for pre-accession and eur 32.6 million through the eu humanitarian aid. in all these actions inside and outside the eu, the protection of the most vulnerable, especially of children and unaccompanied minors, remains a priority for the commission. the commission is doing all it can to help member states to address the situation at our external borders. the dignity and safety of all affected persons needs to be ensured and protected. a lot has been achieved, but more remains to be done. we need to find a common understanding on how we collectively shape and manage the realities of migration. we must unite around our common values and humanitarian responsibilities and seek to make our society more cohesive and integrated. i count on your continued support and that of the council as well.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the western balkans route is one of the main migration routes to europe, making it also the busiest. unfortunately, frontline member states such as croatia, greece and others always carry a disproportionate burden, as due to their geographical location they are always the member state of first entry. the evidence is what is happening on the border between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina, as well as on the greek islands, where the flow of migrants is not diminishing. paradoxically, while asylum seekers can apply for international protection at official border posts, their numbers are minimal. instead, they use unregulated border crossings, often even using smuggling networks, with the sole aim of reaching western europe. at the end of 2018, following increased migratory pressure, the european commission allocated eur 6,8 million to croatia to support the management of the european union's external borders. this has been done in full compliance with the european union rules ensuring that all measures applied at the external borders of the union are proportionate and fully comply with the fundamental rights and the legislation of the european union on asylum. since the beginning of 2018, eur 36 million has also been provided to bosnia and herzegovina to address the immediate needs of migrants and asylum seekers. the protection of the external borders can only be achieved in accordance with the law and international conventions, and with respect for the fundamental rights and dignity of migrants. the member states at the external border and the european institutions are guarding our borders in good faith and applying these rules.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the unprecedented peak in refugee arrivals in 2015 exposed the gaps in the eu’s policies at our borders, but it is now 2020 and the member states have had five years to find solutions. and yet, in many places, the situation of refugees at our external borders, instead of improving, continues to deteriorate. we still stand by and watch pregnant women and children losing their lives in the mediterranean sea. we still accept thousands of people, including unaccompanied minors, living in camps for years in inhumane conditions, waiting for their asylum procedure to advance. and we still consent to people being forced to return to unsafe countries. detention centres, illegal push-backs and floating sea fences are not the solutions we are calling for. i hope the croatian presidency will take note of this debate and our concerns on behalf of the european council. and let’s not forget that countries surrounding the eu are still taking in the vast majority of refugees. but also let’s not forget that countries who are our neighbours sometimes have their own citizens fleeing from the country, so we must address human rights with countries such as turkey and morocco. in this parliament we often talk about the european values. they include respect for human dignity and human rights. that also applies to refugees seeking protection.
president. - mr president, for the last few years we have been overwhelmed by unwanted migration. but this is just the beginning. africa's population will go from one to four billion this century. hundreds of millions will come to europe. that's why we have to guard the borders. not out of hatred for those outside our borders, but out of love for our own people. left-wing activists and rogue lawyers are abusing human rights to encourage and propagandize migration. they want to be able to enforce non-citizen rights in our home countries. they want to make migration a human right that can be enforced, with the cooperation of judges who are outsiders, and who, by the way, no one has ever voted for. the european convention on human rights, for example, was once intended to protect citizens of european countries from tyranny. today, however, it has evolved into a tool for forcing an open-border policy down the throats of our people. we need to solve the migration crisis at our borders. we do that by sending economic fortune seekers back without pardon. we need to take in genuine refugees in their region of origin, and above all, we need to adapt human rights treaties to the realities of 2020, so that they can no longer be exploited by the migration lobby.
madam president, no single country or organisation can stop this coronavirus outbreak alone. the eu should closely collaborate with member states, the who, the chinese government and other international partners, including taiwan. the international community should support all efforts to end this outbreak, but human rights should not be a casualty of the coronavirus. several international rights groups have signalled that the chinese government has been withholding information, suppressing freedom of expression and denying access to food and medicines. on the other hand, elsewhere in the world there is an increase in anti-chinese or anti-asian xenophobia and discrimination. international law is very clear that during a time of public health emergency, any restrictions on human rights should be based on legality, necessity, proportionality and grounded in evidence. i count on the eu to protect our health and to protect human rights, within the eu and elsewhere.
mr president, commissioner, you are well aware that the majority of this house are committed to the sustainable development goals and, of course, to our commitments to the paris summit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but i do not think that we can focus on two big programmes, the farm-to-table strategy or the green deal, which are big programmes and generate great expectations, on the fact that agriculture is causing difficulties and that big changes have to be made to it, without recognising what has already been done. i mean, we can't just focus on phytosanitary elimination. it is an important element, but we must give farmers the possibility of innovation, biological control and other elements. they must be given an alternative to this situation. without complicity and without commitment to agriculture it is impossible for this programme, this strategy to succeed. so with everyone's commitment, let's get it done. not with your back to the farmers.
mr president, commissioner, you are in a difficult position. believe me, farmers are watching this debate because they know that the strategy is about them and that the strategy must be for them. they expect us to support them. because they know that the impacts of climate change are primarily on them. they know that it's not the green deal, but it's the climate change. if there is no frost in the czech republic today, it means that diseases and pests are multiplying and a lower harvest can be expected. this is not the impact of the green deal, but it is the impact of climate change that we have to fight, but we have to support our farmers in doing so. they also bear the costs and risks of cheaper imports from third countries. then there's the challenge of these food chains, which my colleague here mentioned, because most people buy from the food chains, and they have far more power. so please, i have a question for you: how do you advocate for farmers to be better positioned in the food chain? that's a lot of worry. we need to support active farmers who live in rural areas, who care for the soil, forests and biodiversity. please support active farmers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the food chain is responsible for between 21% and 37% of total co2 emissions. a system designed in this way is no longer sustainable, even in the light of the challenge we face: producing more with less, and providing healthy, quality food for all. let us not underestimate the political moment we are living in. the citizens are on our side and they want transparency and security, but legislation alone is not enough. a radical change of the whole system and of our way of life is needed. the holistic approach is key. we need more synergy between the different policies, health and agriculture first and foremost, which must complement each other and not clash. finally, we are all witnessing a growing awareness on the part of consumers of the value of food, in terms of health and the processes that contribute to bringing it to our table. we must therefore devise a uniform front-of-pack labelling system which informs the consumer without influencing him and which is based on sound scientific justification.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by saying that i have great confidence in european agricultural production and that we can be proud of everything that is produced here. after all i heard this morning, it is important to be able to say it again and to say thank you to our farmer friends. the strategy of fork to fork, for me, is perhaps a reconciliation between consumers and farmers. three elements seem to me to be essential. first, that there should be an active participation of the agricultural world in this strategy, that it should be a party to this strategy, as well as consumers. secondly, there must be new guarantees of financing and investment to enable this transition. farmers do not have to be the adjustment variable in european budgets, nor the adjustment value in the green pact; they need to be supported in their investment and transition. and finally, thirdly, the essential element is protection: protection of consumers, protection of farmers, protection of the environment. it can only be achieved if controls are strengthened and if equivalence is established for products imported into our territory, to put an end to certain injustices and misunderstandings on the part of consumers. i wish you luck with that strategy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the eu, around 500 people die on our roads every week. that's two full planes going down. we would never accept so many deaths in aviation. why do we accept them in traffic? the cost of road accidents is estimated at 280 billion euros a year. add to this the human and social tragedies. i therefore welcome the european commission's pledges to reduce by half the number of road deaths in that period, in particular, as part of the next eu road safety policy. this medium-term goal will be the key to achieving the vision of zero deaths by 2050. technological progress and artificial intelligence could significantly improve road safety, as 94% of accidents involve human error. however, an automated road sector brings new risks and challenges that need to be addressed, such as new infrastructure for driverless vehicles, ethical issues related to liability and data protection, and environmental and health issues. while pedestrians and cyclists are by far the least likely to cause harm to other road users, they are the most at risk road users and account for almost one third of all deaths. to increase road safety and reduce road deaths, we need a new urban planning system that prioritises pedestrians, cyclists and public transport. we need an eu strategy for safe and sustainable mobility. as you said yourself, commissioner, and i am glad to hear it, you have a strategy. and with strategy comes action. i hope you will keep your word and make road safety a top priority for you in the years to come.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. improving the safety of road users, whether drivers, pedestrians or cyclists, is a major challenge for both the member states and the european commission. looking at the statistics, it is easy to see that the number of road deaths is closely linked to geography, with the least developed regions being the worst off. nearly 55 percent of all road deaths occur on rural roads. there is no better justification for continuing the ambitious cohesion policy that allows local authorities to invest in safe infrastructure and public transport. technology and advanced safety systems in vehicles also provide a great deal of support to drivers. the next step will certainly be fully autonomous vehicles, but that's the future. and today we need to encourage drivers, especially young ones, to drive responsibly. it is worthwhile to involve, for example, insurance companies that have the tools to effectively reward safe driving. i am convinced that the european commission can count on us in all its efforts to promote road safety and to implement the strategy to eliminate road fatalities by 2050.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for your statement. the strategy adopted last june aims to halve the number of deaths and serious injuries on our roads in europe. it is a wonderful human goal, and we all know the unfortunate cases of families who have been destroyed by the reality of road safety. to achieve this, i think we have to take a whole range of options. the european commission had envisaged, among other things, and i hope that it will, a review of the reality of driving licences; the commission is also proposing to review crossborder cooperation, particularly in the case of driving licences being withdrawn. the commission has also proposed a revision of the recommendations on limiting alcohol, drugs and even speed. these are at least three areas which i think are important and which i hope you will work on in order to take concrete measures, beyond a target, to improve the overall road safety situation in europe. if we look closely, we see that in recent years there has been a kind of stagnation in the road safety figures, and we can regret it. after many years of improvement, this stagnation cannot continue. it cannot continue, since there is a very strong objective to reduce the number of deaths and injuries. i would also ask you to go further, particularly in the correlations of good practice by member state. we need to be able to ask the right questions together. of course, infrastructure and vehicles are not the same in all member states, but we recognize that some measures must also be implemented in some member states to improve the reality of road safety and the figures. there are too many differences, and very significant differences, in road safety between the different member states. i very much hope, madam commissioner, that we can work more on these figures and that you too can, that we can make recommendations together, member state by member state, so that good practice is disseminated everywhere and the lot of road safety can be improved throughout europe.
madam president, i first want to start by expressing my empathy for the communities and the families affected by the virus, and also for the healthcare providers that have been helping them. indeed, we should not panic. this virus may not be as deadly as we think or as other viruses, but it will have indirect effects on health systems if we do not take the measures that are needed – and that is something that i want to explain in my intervention today. i think you have all seen the curves of how an epidemic usually takes place. well, we have to take all the measures possible to flatten that curve so that people do not infect other people. usually people infected with this virus infect two to three other people, as we have learned already from the epidemiology of the virus. we have to bring these numbers down so that, in total, people in the population do not get infected because, and let’s not forget this, there is no immunity in the population. so let’s not compare this with influenza. this has nothing to do with influenza where there is a high background immunity. this is a really different virus and the real danger is that the health systems, the healthcare systems are being overloaded. i think we’ve all read the newspapers. today we’ve seen what is happening in the northern part of italy. hospitals where people do not get beds, where intensive care beds are lacking because they can’t put the patients where they need to be. indeed, we really have to do everything possible to contain that virus. i want to reinforce the call of the commissioner that maybe we have to step up our measures to make sure that this virus is contained. i’m not going to talk about the social and economic consequences. we all know these, but if we don’t do what is necessary to contain the virus and to look at the health aspects – also the indirect effects of this epidemic – the social and economic consequences will be much worse than they would be otherwise. so this should be our first priority also in this house.
mr president, public health is a matter for the member states. crisis management is the same. i hope that all the member states will do their duty properly. article 168 gives the commission a mandate to promote coordination. this is a cross-border threat and much has already been done by the commission, for which i am grateful. but i ask for even more coordination between member states, particularly on prevention, results of various treatments, disinfection, how to deal with mass gatherings - that is a very different approach - how to deal with quarantine and so on. secondly, i note that we are dependent on third countries for disinfectants, medicines and so on. i urge that policies be developed to ensure that in the future our half a billion inhabitants will not be dependent on medicines and disinfectants from abroad.
madam president, commissioner, every crisis sometimes reveals the worst and the best. the best thing is to mobilize the health care workers, the health workers, the nurses, the doctors, etc. the worst is sometimes selfish national reflexes like france and germany, which ban the export of masks. every crisis also reveals our weaknesses, as françois-xavier pointed out, and i agree with him. of course, our reliance on medical care, particularly from china and india, shows european citizens that europe is not protecting its citizens at the heart of european health. the economic crisis and the health crisis should not be separated, since this health and economic crisis will have consequences for health. the economic crisis, too, we saw in 2008-2009: budgets that have seen significant cuts in a whole series of member states, people getting worse health care. we must mobilize to ensure that everyone in europe can get proper health care and meet this challenge also through this economic crisis. we must do everything we can to bring about these coherent policies, this necessary solidarity between the member states, to have a europe which protects, to have an industrial strategy, that is true, but also a sound energy strategy. this whole crisis, i hope we can draw the consequences and also the lessons. that's the most important thing. i would like to conclude by saying that i hope that one day we will be able to mobilize in such a significant way for road safety, since, if there have been 500 deaths from coronavirus in europe, at the same time, 2,500 people have died on our roads.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). we have fortunately promised that support and must show more than ever solidarity with the countries on europe's external borders. but make no mistake, guarding the borders is not going to solve the problem. we need to ensure that the emergency measures taken in 2016 and outsourced in part to turkey, which hosts 3.7 million migrants, have been of course temporary and partial. we must absolutely go for a common european policy on asylum and migration. the european parliament has taken its responsibility. but, commissioner, how long must we wait before we finally have a breakthrough with the other institutions?
in writing. the situation on the greek-turkish border is proof enough that erdogan understands neither dialogue nor international law. for years, some have tried to convince us that turkey is a reliable ally. but reality once again belies them. the european union's previous defensive stance has unfortunately had these results. we must finally go on the offensive and open the debate immediately on: freezing the customs union with turkey and the abolition of duty-free imports of turkish products into the eu. turkey is not going to comply otherwise. in conclusion, i would like to thank the men and women of the greek armed forces and the greek police, as well as the citizens of our borders, who are bearing all the burden at this moment, because the greek borders are the european borders. and we will defend them with all our might.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
with today's extraordinary sitting i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on tuesday 10 march 2020.
in view of the gravity of the situation and the significant increase in cases of covid-19 in the european union, the conference of presidents decided on thursday 19 march, on a proposal from the president, to further amend the calendar of parliament's activities in 2020 for reasons of force majeure and as a measure of safety and protection of public health. in view of the extraordinary part-session to be held today, thursday 26 march, the partsession previously scheduled for 1 and 2 april, 22 and 23 april and 3 and 4 june in brussels is cancelled. the meeting, originally scheduled for 11 to 14 may in strasbourg, will take place in brussels on 13 and 14 may. the next meeting, originally scheduled for 15 to 18 june in strasbourg, will take place in brussels on 17 and 18 june. the next meeting, originally scheduled for 6 to 9 july in strasbourg, will take place in brussels on 8 and 9 july. the situation will of course be reviewed by the conference of presidents in the light of the evolution of the covid-19 pandemic. the revised provisional calendar is available on the plenary's website.
the first item on the agenda is the vote on requests for the application of the urgency procedure made by the commission under rule 163 of the rules of procedure. we 're voting on three demands: allocation of slots at community airports: common rules; specific measures to mobilise investment in the health systems of the member states and in other sectors of their economies in response to the covid-19 outbreak (coronavirus response investment initiative); financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating accession to the european union that are severely affected by a serious public health emergency. before the vote, only the person who made the request, a counter-speaker and the chairman or rapporteur of the committee responsible may be heard. does anyone in the chamber wish to speak? (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the information on the voting was distributed to all members by e-mail on monday. two test votes have already been held on monday and yesterday to enable all members to become familiar with the procedure. the vote on the urgent procedure will take place from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. all votes today will be by roll call. meps will be able to verify their votes and the results of the vote itself in the document which will be published today on the plenary's website. i would remind the house of the instructions for the vote: meps will now receive the ballot paper for the urgent procedure under rule 163 from the e-mail box 'plenaryvote@europarl.europa.eu'. members are invited to: printing the ballot paper; write their name and indicate their vote (for, against or abstention) on the ballot (there will be three votes on the same ballot, one for each proposal put to the vote); sign the solemn declaration on the ballot paper; scan or photograph the card; send the scan or photograph of the signed form to the e-mail address plenaryvote@europarl.europa.eu. if members have not been able to obtain a printer, they are invited to ask their local assistant to print out the ballot paper and hand it to them so that members can sign and send it. only if this is not possible may members hand-copy the ballot paper in clear and legible form, including the solemn declaration at the bottom of the ballot paper, clearly indicate their name and sign it. only ballots sent from the official address of the member's parliament and bearing the member's name and the vote in legible form with his signature shall be considered as cast. only ballots received in the e-mail box before the close of voting (11 a.m.) will be taken into account. the members present in the chamber shall vote by distance, in the same way as the other members. the vote is open. i invite you to vote by the deadline of 11:00 a.m. the results of the votes on the requests for urgent procedure will be announced at 12.30 p.m. the explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, voting statements of up to 400 words will be accepted. (the sitting was suspended at 10.10 a.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, madam president, welcome to the chamber. i greet you at this very difficult and delicate moment for europe and our citizens. i wish you, your families and your loved ones all the best. we are facing an extraordinary and unexpected situation which has led us in recent weeks to take unprecedented decisions, often anticipating the rapidly changing circumstances, with the aim of protecting the health of our staff and members and, at the same time, ensuring the democratic life of our institution. we have had to slow down, of course, but no one has stopped, and i think that is the most important signal, because democracy cannot be suspended, especially in the midst of such a dramatic crisis. it is our duty, indeed, in these very difficult times, to be of service to our citizens who are suffering so much; to give them guidance and hope to face this dark time and the times to come. as legislators we have the means, the opportunity and the duty to be useful. we are here today, close and yet far apart, gathered in this extraordinary and unprecedented european parliament, all of us determined to make our contribution to the fight against this pandemic, ensuring our democratic function and the continuity of parliament's work, because only in this way can we render a service to the people, our communities, our countries, the health workers who are sacrificing themselves in the wards of our hospitals across europe. a few days ago this horrible virus struck us very close, taking a young life as well: a guy who worked right here with us at the european parliament. our deepest condolences to the family of dear giancarlo, as well as to the families of all those who have lost their lives due to covid-19. i would like to address a thought to all those who are fighting this virus with courage and determination every day, to the sick people, first of all, to the medical staff who are working tirelessly throughout europe, and a salute to all our citizens who, by their responsible and disciplined behaviour, will be decisive in eradicating this pandemic. we need all our strength, all our energy and cooperation and, of course, a little patience to ensure that this day of extraordinary plenary session of parliament, which is so special and atypical, can be spent in peace, because with our decisions we could give oxygen to those who are currently at the forefront of dealing with this emergency.
ladies and gentlemen, the agenda is for statements by the council and the commission on a coordinated european response to the covid-19 epidemic (2020/2610 (rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that the usual catch-the-eye or blue-card procedures are not foreseen for this debate. i should like to inform you that the presidency of the council, unable to take part in our discussions, has sent me a written statement which i will send to all members. i welcome the president of the european commission, mrs von der leyen, to whom i shall now turn.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all those who have made this extraordinary sitting possible under these equally extraordinary conditions. it's hard to realize how much and how the world has changed since we last met. in the blink of an eye, a virus that appears on the other side of the world becomes a deadly pandemic with tragic consequences here in europe as well. our lifestyles changed overnight. our streets are empty. our doors are closed. and we went from the daily routine to the fight of our lives. during that time, we have seen the fragility of life laid bare before our eyes. and we have seen a tragedy in the heart of europe, of a scale unimaginable just a few weeks ago. my heart goes out to all the victims and their loved ones and our thoughts, our best wishes go out to those who are fighting for their lives right now or who are sick at home. but if the virus strikes hard, european citizens are also powerful. i want to pay tribute to the men and women who are leading this fight. i think of the nurses, doctors and nursing assistants in italy, spain, all over europe, who ran into danger without asking any questions. these heroes who put everything on the line every day to save our parents, to save our grandparents, our friends and co-workers, our neighbors and strangers. europe owes you all a debt of gratitude. to the shelf-fillers and the garbage collectors, the funeral attendants and the education assistants, the truck drivers and the cleaners, the workers and the bakers, to all those who help our world to turn, europe owes you all a debt of gratitude. but what's unique about this fight is that every single one of us has a role to play. every single one of us can help pay that debt by keeping our distance, we can slow down the spread of the virus. the numbers in the last few days have shown that we can bend the trend, but only if we all do our share. yes, it is painful to stay away from our family, especially when we are worried about their physical and their mental health. and, yes, it is painful for those for whom home is not a happy or a safe place to be. it is painful for those who have plans put on hold, or things they worked so hard for, cast into doubt. but this is why i am convinced that while we may be sitting further apart than usual, we must work closer together than ever before. we must look out for each other. we must pull each other through this because if there is one thing that is more contagious than this virus, it is love and compassion. and, in the face of adversity, the people of europe are showing how strong that can be. small acts of kindness, compassion, solidarity are helping to spread hope across all of europe. from volunteering, to balcony singing; from sending postcards, to the lonely to shopping for the elderly; from hotels offering their beds for free, to restaurants donating their food; from luxury perfumes and vodka producers making sanitising gel; to car makers and fashion houses producing masks. this is the example that the european union must follow. by each doing our little bit, we can truly help each other a lot. and our role as europe's institutions, policymakers and leaders is to show that same trust, that same unity and that same leadership. we all share this responsibility. none of us can do it alone. and, certainly, no member state can handle this crisis on their own. because in this crisis, and in our union more generally, it is only by helping each other, that we can help ourselves. but the story from the last few weeks is partly a painful one to tell. when europe really needed to be there for each other, too many initially looked out for themselves. when europe really needed an all-for-one spirit, too many initially gave an only-for-me response. and when europe really needed to prove that this is not only a fair-weather union, too many initially refused to share their umbrella. but it wasn't long before some felt the consequences of their own uncoordinated action and this is why over the last few weeks, we took exceptional and extraordinary measures to coordinate and enable the action that is needed. since then, things are improving, and member states are starting to help each other to help themselves. europe is now really stepping up, but the people of europe are watching what happens next. and we all know what's at stake. what we do now matters for today, as well as for the future. the outbreak of the corona virus is first and foremost a public-health emergency and we will stop at nothing to save lives. to do that, we are lucky to have, and to be able to rely on, the best healthcare professionals in the world from milan to madrid and beyond. they are producing miracles every single day. but as we have seen, both there and elsewhere, the scale of the outbreak is stretching them to breaking point. they urgently need equipment, the right equipment, they need the right amount of it and they need it right now. but instead of that, what we saw was crucial equipment stuck in bottlenecks or at borders for days, and this is why we had to take matters into our own hands, as far as we could, to relieve these blockades. this is why we are creating the first ever european stockpile of medical equipment, such as ventilators, masks and lab supplies. the commission will finance 90% of this stockpile through resceu. this is why we launched several joint procurement with member states for testing kits, ventilators and protective equipment. twenty-five member states joined the latter and there: good news. since tuesday, we know that their demands for masks, gloves, goggles and face shields can be matched by the producers. the first deliveries should start in the coming weeks. and because knowledge saves lives in a pandemic, we set up a european team of scientists experts to help us come up with coordinated measures that we can all follow. i personally chair these discussions twice a week. doing so has only deepened my conviction that we will need to draw on all that makes us strong to get through this together and then to get back on our feet again. we have no stronger asset for this than our unique single market. a successful european response can only be coordinated if our internal market and our schengen area work the way they should. a crisis without borders cannot be resolved by putting barriers between us. and yet, this is exactly the first reflex that many european countries have. this simply makes no sense, because there is not one single member state that can meet its own needs when it comes to vital medical supplies and equipment. not one. the free movement of goods and services is therefore our strongest and, frankly, our only asset to ensure supplies can go where they are needed most. it makes no sense that some countries unilaterally decided to stop exports to others in the internal market. and this is why the commission intervened when a number of countries blocked exports of protective equipment to italy. it is why we issued guidelines for border measures to protect health and keep goods and essential services available. it is why we are calling for priority green lanes for transport of goods. these will ensure that crossing the border takes no more than 15 minutes, and they will help ensure that goods and supplies can go where they're needed, and we can all avoid shortages. it pains me that we had to do this, but our coordinated approach is now bearing fruit. the internal market is already functioning better, and we all welcome the news that hospitals in saxony and took patients from lombardy while others from the grand-est in france are now being treated in the grand duchy of luxembourg. this only goes to prove that it is only by helping each other that we can help ourselves. the whole set of measures that we have taken reflects the unprecedented situation we're all in. but as i said earlier, the people of europe are watching what happens next. and they, of course, want us to do everything we can to save as many lives as we can, but they're also thinking about the day after. they are thinking about what job will they have to go back to, what will happen to their business and to their employers? what will happen to their savings and their mortgage? they will worry about their parents, their neighbor, their local community. they'll know that their governments had to make tough decisions to save lives, yes. but they'll also remember who was there for them and who wasn't. and they will remember those who acted and those who didn't. and they'll remember the decisions that we make today, or the ones we don't. the point is that sometime soon there will be a day after. and our job is to make sure that on that day, and all the days that follow, the european union is there for those who need it. what we do now really matters and this is why we launched the corona virus response investment initiative to help direct eur 37 billion to mitigate the impact of the crisis, to save lives, jobs and businesses. this is why we adopted the most flexible ever temporary rules on state aid: to enable member states to give a lifeline to their businesses. the first cases were approved in record time within a matter of hours. this is why, for the first time in our history, we have activated the general escape clause in the stability and growth pact. that means that member states can use all the firepower they have to support those in work, or those out of work, to support businesses, small and large, and to support people through these tough times. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is europe, a europe which people should remember every day: a europe which is working at a rapid pace, but which feels as if the whole world had been brought to a standstill. a europe for its people and its member states is there when we need it most. the european union is a community of nations, and it is not a one-party state. the european union is not a europe that can stand on its own feet and be independent at the same time. that is the europe i want. it is precisely this europe, our founding father and mother, which has been reduced to ashes by the two world wars. when they create this union of men and nations, they stand painfully in the way of self-interest and exaggerated national thinking. it was about them, a bündnis zu schmieden, in which aus gegenseitigem vertrauen gemeinsame stärke wächst das war their great gedanke, from which within jahrzehnten eine einzige gemeinschaft in freiheit und frieden entstand: unsere europäische union. and today, in the face of an invisible enemy, these fundamental values of our union are being put to the test. we must all leave each other! we must help each other again through the harsh times. at the moment it is our first duty and priority to save the lives and livelihoods of europeans. but the day will come, and i hope, in not allzu ferner zukunft, when we shall have to look at each other and jointly shape the aufschwung. and then we will have to learn and decide what we want for the future of the european union. and if we do, then we should not be left to the false debate of whether we need more europe or less. we should concentrate on how we can take advantage of this storm to make sure we can better withstand the next one. the desire for a resilient and worthwhile home in europe is not the same for everyone, whether from the north or the south or the east or the west. and when we are aware: the decisions we take today will be remembered for a long time and will be the foundation of our european union tomorrow. we are in a position to: will this virus finally split us in arms and kingdoms, in the rich and the poor, or will we remain a stronger continent, a serious and unimportant actor in the world? can we perhaps come out of this situation even stronger and better? can we bring our communities closer together in the face of the crisis? can our democracy win? and if one looks at the many acts of kindness and humanity throughout europe, one sees that we all have reason to be optimistic about the future. our europe has everything in der hand, was nötig ist. and we are ready, everything to do, was necessary, um diese krise zu meistern! mr president, in the last few days many of you have used jean monnet's quote about the european steel industry in times of crisis, and that is still true today! but there is another quote from another founding father, which, in my opinion, also sums up where we stand today. konrad adenauer said: "history is also the sum of things that man could have avoided". friends and lovers, history is watching us. let us do the right thing together, with one big heart and not with twenty-seven little ones! the european union is not a long live the europe! the european union is a great power.
as i said, the presidency of the council was to speak, but it was not able to take part in our discussions. the presidency has sent me a written statement which i will send to all members. let me also, of course, greet our croatian friends who have been affected by the earthquake: we must show them our solidarity, our friendship and our closeness.
statement by nikolina brnjac, president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the council of the european union at the extraordinary plenary session of the european parliament(in writing) president, honourable members, first, i wish to thank the european parliament for this extraordinary session today so that important measures can be adopted. i regret that i cannot be with you in person on such an important occasion, and i would like to thank president sassoli for granting me this opportunity to address you in writing from zagreb during this extraordinary plenary. allow me to begin with a few words about the terrifying earthquake of 5.5 magnitude on the richter scale, which hit my capital zagreb and its surroundings this sunday. it was the strongest earthquake in this area in the last 140 years. our homes, hospitals and churches, even the cathedral, sustained extensive material damages. newborn babies and their mothers with masks were carried into the freezing hospital yards, people were physically injured and traumatized with fear and uncertainty, and most tragically, one young life was lost. since then, zagreb and its surroundings have been hit by more than 80 smaller earthquakes and aftershocks; we had strong winds and snow showers. zagreb could not stay at home even in the midst of the covid-19 epidemic. i would like to use this opportunity to praise our citizens who exhibited incredible feats of courage, solidarity and togetherness, our public services, our military and police, our firemen and engineers and our media who all worked tirelessly and patiently to assist and inform people in these terrible circumstances. i also wish to thank everybody for their messages of support, solidarity and friendship, as zagreb witnessed these two simultaneous emergencies. our fight against covid-19 pandemic continues, and strict measures introduced to contain its spread and slow down the epidemiological curve remain our priority in zagreb and the whole of croatia. moreover, we remain aware of our responsibilities as the presidency of the council of the european union in these difficult moments and we shall keep performing them to the best of our abilities. allow me therefore another comment outside the designated subject : i am proud that in these exceptional circumstances, we have managed to reach a true enlargement policy milestone, by deciding to open accession negotiations with the republic of albania and the republic of north macedonia. coming back to our main subject: the coronavirus is a global crisis. but right now, that crisis is hitting hardest in europe and the situation has been worsening by the hour. for the moment, we are the continent that has the biggest number of people that are infected and the highest number of fatalities. before i continue, i would like to pay tribute to the victims, in europe and elsewhere, and express my deepest sympathy with their relatives and loved ones. i also wish to acknowledge and praise the outstanding efforts and hard work by the healthcare services throughout europe and the world in these difficult times. they are on the front line, tirelessly fighting the spread of the virus. i also wish to express our solidarity with all those who are ill, in intensive care or in quarantine. and we should not forget those who are doing their utmost to ensure we continue to have the basic goods and services that we all need in our everyday life. we must help and support each other throughout this pandemic and i believe we will come out of it stronger. the coronavirus is not only an unprecedented health crisis, but it is also a serious threat to the eu economy and society, which build on free movement. in response, the members of the european council have identified five key priorities for the eu and its member states. these are: limiting the spread of the virus, measures to secure access to medical equipment, promoting research, tackling socio-economic consequences and helping eu citizens stranded abroad to return home. as regards public health, our focus has been and will continue to be on minimizing human suffering, people falling ill and dying. we need to reduce the number of active cases as much as possible so that our health care systems have a sufficient number of places for treatment, including intensive care. this is why the eu and its member states took very drastic measures to achieve social distancing. these have been difficult decisions aimed at reducing the infection rate, but although necessary and justified, they have immense impact on our citizens, their private, professional and social life. since those measures were introduced some 10 days ago, we hope soon to see the number of daily new cases diminish. the free movement of goods is in normal times the cornerstone of our prosperity and growth. in this time of crisis, swift and undisrupted access to essential goods must also be guaranteed. to this aim the internal market must function properly. it is time now to show solidarity with those who are at this point in time the most affected and in need of life-saving equipment. we therefore welcome the concrete measures that the european commission has taken in cooperation with member states to ensure the supply of medicines and medical equipment. we support the commission’s efforts to improve the situation as regards access to personal protective equipment, through joint public procurement initiatives, engagement with the industry and purchases via the civil protection framework. in order to be able to tackle cross-cutting issues, the croatian presidency is also making full use of the integrated political crisis response (ipcr), which provides for efficient information exchange between member states, including at ministerial level whenever needed. it is impossible to overstate the significant impacts that this health crisis will have throughout the globe on many sectors of our economy. given the interconnectedness of our economies, close coordination of fiscal and monetary policies will be key to tackling this crisis. we stand ready to act if the situation worsens, always keeping in mind the need to ensure proportionality and flexibility in our response. over the years, we have built robust yet flexible rules in domains such as fiscal policy, financial regulation and state aid. staying within the boundaries of such frameworks, while exploiting their flexibility to the full extent, will allow us to provide the adequate immediate relief, while at the same time ensuring credibility and sustainability in the long term. in concrete terms, with the support of member states, the commission will use the general escape clause of the stability and growth pact, allowing member states to undertake measures to deal adequately with the crisis, while departing from the budgetary requirements that would normally apply under the european fiscal framework. then, in order to minimise the damage on the productive fabric of our societies, also linked to the necessary containment measures taken in these weeks, massive liquidity support for firms have been announced by many member states, amounting to exposures of several percentage points of gdp. in parallel, our financial regulators have already expressed their willingness to provide the maximum flexibility to banks and credit institutions to channel and complement public support, while the commission has announced a temporary relaxation of state aid rules to ensure and expedite approval of public support schemes for enterprises facing difficulties, especially in sectors and regions most directly affected by the crisis. finally, all member states have announced important social measures to support the employment status and income of affected workers, in the form of reinforced automatic stabilisers and ad hoc measures to ensure the widest coverage of the measures taken. furthermore, beyond creating the framework of regulatory conditions to allow member states to implement these targeted support policies, eu institutions have also set up important europe-wide initiatives. i would mention the commission's corona response investment initiative; the eib's announcements on working capital lending for european firms and catalysing additional investments in smes and midcaps; and the ecb governing council's announcement of a €750bn pandemic emergency purchase programme (pepp). honorable members, as you know, the formal council meetings had to be postponed due to the rapid spread of the covid-19 pandemic. the croatian presidency, in an effort to ensure the necessary continuation of the council's work, initiated changes to the council's rules of procedure which enable the use of a written decision-making procedure within the council, as well as regulating the issue of holding and preparing video conferences, which entered into effect on march 23rd. a number of informal ministerial meetings were held via video conferences in the last weeks. on march 18th, the eu transport ministers debated the implications of covid-19 on transport and agreed cooperation to ensure a smooth flow of goods (food, medicines, medical equipment) with an emphasis on safeguarding freedom of movement across borders; as well as health and safety measures for transportation workers. on 19th march, an exchange of views of eu social and employment ministers took place on the impact of covid-19 on social policy and employment across 3 topics: i.) possible reallocation of eu funds to new "corona" initiatives; ii.) measures to mitigate the impact of covid-19 on smes and the self-employed; iii.) alternative childcare solutions (for working parents), and other vulnerable groups. on 20th march, an informal high-level videoconference of ministers responsible for internal market and eu competitiveness was held on the impact of covid-19 on the eu economy, with an exchange of views on: i.) ways to ensure a sufficient level of production capacity for medical equipment to meet the needs of all ms ; ii.) measures taken regarding the economic consequences of the pandemic; iii.) ways of enabling free movement of the functionality. on 23 march a teleconference of eu ministers of economy and finance was held, with a focus on: i.) the economic impact of the covid-19 crisis; ii.) the flexibility of the stability and growth pact; iii.) the impact of covid-19 on the european semester 2020. they took stock of the situation and proposed additional targeted measures as necessary. a teleconference of foreign ministers was held on march 23, discussing: i. repatriation of eu citizens; ii.) international cooperation; iii.) public diplomacy and misinformation issues; and iv.)geopolitical and economic implications of repatriation, especially for eu citizens who are not residents of third countries (students, tourists, etc.). the ministers also discussed the medical equipment issues and inaction among ms, which creates fertile ground for the intervention of third countries. covid crisis was also discussed at video conferences of ministers for european affairs on march 24th and ministers of agriculture on march 25th, and will be discussed at the upcoming meeting of ministers responsible for regional and cohesion policy on march 27th. the key message expressed by the council, is that above all we need to strengthen the solidarity between member states, cooperation and exchange of information. moreover, the council mandates for the proposals on corona investment initiative regulation and for a proposal to amend the european solidarity fund regulation, as well as for the proposal amending the slot regulation, were urgently discussed and adopted on march 18th and 20th, respectively. there is thus an impressive set of national and europe-wide initiatives with a significant amount of resources mobilised, in the context of an adjusted regulatory framework to ensure a smooth deployment of the instruments. to conclude, we are constantly monitoring the situation, to be able to react as swiftly as needed. we are now in the epicentre of the crisis, and it is only through solidarity, unity, and close cooperation among all of us that we can contribute to diminish the impacts of this global outbreak in the most efficient way. today, the members of the european council will follow-up, by video-conference, on the eu's response to the crisis. they will focus on the main strands of action, notably: limiting the spread of the virus; the provision of medical equipment; promoting research, and tackling the socio-economic consequences of the outbreak. in the face of this unprecedented challenge, we are determined to continue the joint work of the european institutions and the member states in a coordinated, swift, responsible and united manner to find effective solutions to address many serious problems that now arise. i would like to thank the european parliament for taking the steps that will allow our two institutions to act quickly on the commission proposals in the light of these exceptional circumstances, and for its good cooperation on these proposals, on which you will vote later today. i wish you a fruitful debate and i extend to you my heartfelt desire that you and your loved ones stay safe. i look forward to addressing you at the plenary as soon as the situation permits.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we welcome your resolution to get things done, like the joint procurement of personal protective equipment. those are positive steps. now we need to go further. in the short term we need a lot more resources in health-care industry to fight against the corona virus. we need to guarantee the free flow of goods and medicines across borders. we need to guarantee pensions and salaries. no one must be left behind. we need to secure the functioning of our critical services, both physical and digital. in the long term, we need a relaunch of the industrial production of medical equipment in europe. we need to invest more in medical research and in the fight against diseases, and we need to address the economic impact of the crisis. we want our economies to survive the crisis. our workers and our small and medium-sized enterprises, our fishermen, our farmers must survive this crisis. i will continue in my mother tongue. en italia, en españa, en francia muchos se están preguntando dónde está europa. en estos tiempos se considera desleal criticar a los gobiernos nacionales o regionales, pero sigue siendo aceptable criticar al gobierno europeo, como si la comisión no fuera también el gobierno de cada uno de nosotros. yo quiero aclarar, primero, que la comisión está haciendo todo lo que le permiten las competencias; y, segundo, que ningún gobierno nacional le ha pedido que haga nada más que lo que le permiten las competencias. frente a un único problema, los estados miembros europeos han dado veintisiete respuestas diferentes, más de cincuenta si se tienen presentes las regiones con competencias en sanidad, como si el virus se detuviera ante cada frontera. no están fallando las instituciones europeas, está fallando la solidaridad entre los gobiernos europeos. no falla la unión europea, falla el europeísmo de los líderes nacionales europeos. la organización mundial de la salud ha tratado el virus como lo que es, una pandemia, una enfermedad contagiosa de alcance planetario. pero los gobiernos europeos lo siguen tratando como si se tratara de veintisiete infecciones nacionales diferentes, incluso de infecciones regionales. hoy el virus se está cebando con italia, españa y francia, pero no sabemos cómo evolucionará mañana. no sabemos si se va a extender igual por otros países europeos y cuándo. no sabemos si volverá en otoño y por dónde. no sabemos si explotará en áfrica, oriente próximo o rusia, y qué consecuencias tendrá entonces para nosotros. la verdad es que no sabemos qué va a pasar. por eso es preciso tener presente que la solidaridad que hoy demos es la solidaridad que mañana recibiremos. de eso va ser europeos. hoy contemplamos dos europas diferentes, la del consejo —que se reúne esta tarde— y la que cada noche, a las ocho, sale a los balcones a aplaudir a los médicos y enfermeras de europa. este parlamento debe ser de la europa que, pese a estar confinada, habla el mismo idioma de balcón a balcón, y no de esa otra europa que, pese a tener traductores, es incapaz de entenderse. este parlamento no debe cerrar durante la crisis, porque el parlamento es la casa de la esperanza. en mi país, con menos de cincuenta millones de habitantes, llevamos más muertos que en china, que tiene más de mil millones de habitantes. estamos viviendo un infierno. en mi país, más de cinco mil médicos, enfermeras, auxiliares y personal de ambulancias se han contagiado. en mi país, muchos hospitales están desbordados. en mi país, los pacientes de coronavirus mueren solos, sin un familiar que les cierre los ojos. y se les entierra solos. esto no es una guerra. esto es una epidemia. los médicos no nos piden medallas al valor ni arcos de triunfo, nos piden presupuesto en sanidad. no nos piden discursos de sangre, sudor y lágrimas, nos piden cosas más sencillas, como piedad y mascarillas, como dignidad y respiradores, como consuelo y test del virus. ¿de verdad no podemos compartir eso entre los europeos? ¿de verdad no vamos a ayudarnos unos a otros cuando pase la enfermedad? la generación que más está sufriendo el virus es la de los padres de europa. el virus está atacando a la generación que nació en la posguerra; está atacando a la generación que construyó la economía europea; está atacando a la generación que generalizó la sanidad pública y la educación pública; está atacando a la generación que devolvió la democracia a españa, portugal y grecia; está atacando a la generación que derribó el muro de berlín; está atacando a la generación que renunció al franco y al marco en favor del euro. el virus está atacado a la generación de los padres de europa, y lo mínimo que se merecen es que nosotros les demostremos que europa está ahí cuando ellos la necesitan. y que sea verdad. me uno a la presidenta ursula von der leyen y termino diciendo: ¡viva europa!
the s&d group has been represented. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, today is a somewhat strange session: this house is almost empty, but our house of european democracy, as you have rightly said, mr president, continues and will continue to operate in the service of all european citizens. today we must all adopt the measures proposed and continue our work. i would like to address my first words on behalf of the whole s&d group, its president, and especially the spanish delegation, to all the people who have lost loved ones. we are very sorry. we also wish for a speedy recovery for those affected by the disease. i also want to say that from this chamber, as we do every afternoon from our balconies, we applaud the healthcare staff and thank them for their tireless fight against the global pandemic. we also applaud all those citizens who are working to ensure that life continues as far as possible, making it easier for others. together with the exemplary behavior of the citizenship, they are the best weapon to win the war against this pandemic. only united and coordinated at european level will we defeat the virus and return to normal life. it also means the growth of our economies. we need a joint strategy to deal with the escalating evolution of the epidemic. the decisions we take today are a first step towards a positive and hopeful future for our societies and the union. we must act in the short, medium and long term, thinking exclusively of the welfare and future of the citizenry. citizens expect a coordinated community response that strengthens our health system and addresses urgent material needs, that guarantees the distribution of food and essential goods and, above all, that comes to the rescue to mitigate the negative effects of the extraordinary measures that are being taken by governments to contain the virus and that already negatively affect our economies and especially workers, who are very concerned about their employment. today we are voting on a package of urgent measures to ensure that the structural funds and the instruments available in the 2020 budget are used so that member states can help with the necessary flexibility to the most affected regions. we also need to temporarily suspend the rules on the allocation of slots and end the so-called 'ghost flights', which have a high economic and environmental cost. these first measures are in addition to those announced by the european central bank, the european commission and the eib to ensure a certain relaxation of budgetary stability standards and for the most important thing at the moment - and the president said so - the joint purchase of urgent medical equipment to fight the pandemic and save lives. but we need more ambitious measures, particularly in the area of fiscal policy, to support national efforts and guarantee financial solidarity. that is why, in line with the initiative launched by president pedro sánchez, we european socialists have asked the european leaders and the commission to approve a plan with 25 urgent measures to combat the social and economic crisis generated by covid-19. a roadmap that leaves no one behind and includes the most vulnerable. we therefore call for a new common european investment marshall plan, financed by a common debt instrument which includes the issuing of eurobonds and the activation of the european stability mechanism, with a specific line of credit without additional macroeconomic conditions. we also call for the introduction of european unemployment insurance, combined with a temporary european minimum income scheme, to protect all types of workers, especially in the agricultural and fisheries sectors. finally, and among other measures, we call for better coordination and exchange of information between member states on border closures and restrictions. we must get out of this economic and productive hibernation without losing any companies or human capital along the way.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, let me first express, on behalf of the renew group, our solidarity with all europeans affected by the epidemic and our support for the healthcare workers who are carrying out their duties in often difficult conditions. i would first like to speak as a doctor and as a member of the european parliament to stress that if europe is economic and monetary solidarity, how much more so is health solidarity. national egoism, disorder, even discord, are not only reprehensible but worse, counterproductive. the pandemic is not like nationalism, it ignores borders and feeds on our discord. as a member of the committee on transport and as rapporteur for slots, i would ask you to support the commission's proposal as amended and modified by the council, as a matter of urgency and without amendments. the suspension of the 80/20 rule will make it possible to avoid empty flights for as long as necessary, in order to avoid any environmental and economic damage in a mode of transport dramatically affected by this epidemic and whose very future is at stake. let me add that all the supply chains, the logistics, necessary to support, by any means of transport, and to ensure the supply of the population, to the health world the capacity to fight the epidemic, to the security forces the means to ensure social stability, that all these chains must be consolidated, facilitated, and that they represent not only a means of stabilizing europe, but of course of fighting the disease. in conclusion, just a word to say that i hope that the old aphorism will apply to us, to europe and to each of its citizens, and to all its representatives here: whatever does not kill us will make us stronger.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, to govern is to plan, said french mep emile de girardin. in this case, the covid-19 outbreak has allowed the european institutions to demonstrate themselves even more dramatically than usual through a succession of errors, shortcomings and failures. many here, and even more so in the european commission, see the european union not just as a supermarket, but as a superstate. of course, they claim that it would be a more effective ladder than the nations to respond to the great challenges and the great stakes. well, we have a big challenge here and you're not here. first, they are unable to analyse the information available. since december, brussels has been consistently downplaying the risks of the virus. you yourself, mrs von der leyen, have admitted that you have - and i quote - underestimated this crisis. you were a great euphemist. the second is that you are unable to anticipate such a crisis, which is a major risk in an economy which you have wanted to be open and global. the european union has never built up the stocks of masks, tests and products needed to deal with the emergency. the european union, too, was unable to devise a vision of power and to establish an industrial strategy, and so it allowed our know-how to be offshored. 80% of the active ingredients in our medicines today come from china. finally, unable to overcome its dogmas, the european union has refused to the end to control our borders, to the end to challenge the sacred freedom of movement, to suspend flights from china, for example, or other regions at risk. it is only resolved once the decision has been taken by the nations. a virus has no passport, they said like sheep, macron in the lead. but infected people, with or without passports, can enter and move freely in our countries. mrs von der leyen, on 13 march and again a few minutes ago you lashed out at those who are doing border checks, which is an absolutely obvious and common sense measure. your shortcomings and your ideological blindness are the direct cause of the present situation. by refusing to apply basic precautionary principles, you have put europeans at risk. with this crisis, the so-called european solidarity has emerged for what it is: a mantra that you chant to convince yourself of its existence. the european union has not even been able to strengthen or coordinate the action of its member states. the reality is that only governments, often with many failures and many delays, have finally acted. you do not even have the excuse of having been too concentrated, for example, in responding to the migration invasion launched by turkey. here too, the european union has been absent, leaving greece alone. it has been supported humanely, materially by other nations, but without the help of brussels. similarly, russia or switzerland, and even -- this is almost humiliating -- china is helping italy and france and spain in this health crisis more than the european union is. the real europe, a common civilization made up of immortal nations, was animated while brussels remained sound and sclerotic, just good enough to open accession negotiations in secret with a mafia and islamized state like albania. people will judge you by your sense of priorities. the covid-19 epidemic is another nail, perhaps the last, in the coffin of a supranational and impotent bureaucracy. for the time of reckoning has come and with it the time for decision-makers to give account. to govern is to plan, said emile de girardin, adding: to plan nothing is to run to ruin.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, in these dire times, my sympathy and that of all my group – and i’m sure all this house – goes to the victims of covid-19 and to their families. our thanks and gratitude go to all the workers on the front lines for tackling this crisis and for ensuring the basic functioning of our society, even in times of a lockdown. thanks and gratitude are, however, not enough. this crisis makes clear how much we all depend on the tremendous work of often underpaid and overworked people, be it in hospitals, shops or care facilities. we must reflect our gratitude by ensuring the improvement of their pay and of their working conditions. in times of crisis, we need solidarity among neighbours, among citizens and also among eu member states and it took a long time before solidarity started to appear. first, there were acts that were the opposite – export bans for medical equipment, and border closures that left people desperately trying to get home, stranded at borders for hours and days in very unsafe sanitary conditions. luckily, this has finally changed. now countries are starting to learn from each other – sending medical supplies and treating patients from different countries. this is what european solidarity looks like, and we urge all member states with available capacities to support such actions and relieve those hardest hit. what is more, european solidarity must not stop at eu borders. in particular, support, including financial, technical and medical, should be extended to the countries that are working to join the eu in the future. in these dark times, the eu must stand in solidarity with the western balkans. while many of the measures necessary right now fall under national competence, there’s quite a lot of things that the eu can and should do at this moment, including coordinating the response actions of member states, as well as pooling best practices in supporting those groups most impacted by the corona crisis. the single market must reinforce the efforts to tackle the crisis. intense cooperation must exist between the eu institutions and member states to ensure that medical supplies, food and other essential goods can move freely across borders to meet needs across the eu. the economic consequences will be very serious. the eu and the member states have to think outside of their self-imposed limits and be courageous and be creative in finding and delivering the medical, social and economic means to overcome covid-19. this includes using every financial instrument at our disposal to support the millions of people who lost their job or lost their income because of this crisis. to help the hardest-hit countries, we need common bonds like the corona bonds, so that italy, but also other countries, can get back on their feet and further economic turmoil in the eurozone can be prevented. extraordinary times need extraordinary measures and, to fight the spread of the virus, restrictions have been put into place. however, restrictions on fundamental rights to fight this outbreak must be as limited as possible. they must be effective, necessary and proportionate. we must not allow this crisis to be used as a pretext for undermining democratic checks and balances. governments need to remain accountable to democratically elected parliaments and to the people that they serve, especially in times of crisis. solidarity means that we have a responsibility not to forget the most vulnerable groups in our societies, such as women and children who are not safe at home, homeless people, people living in extreme poverty, but also refugees, who often live in overcrowded facilities. it is especially worrying to see the situation in many greek islands, where refugees live in unbearable conditions without any or much access to sanitary facilities or to medical support. those islands need to be evacuated immediately before a big humanitarian catastrophe happens as a result of covid-19 spreading to camps, where sanitation and isolation is impossible. many towns and many communities all over europe are very ready to accommodate refugees. member states should finally allow them to help. together, with solidarity, we will overcome this crisis one day, but when the immediate threat is lowered, there will still be things to do. we will have to help the economy to recover from the severe shock with an investment plan that is also geared towards a social and ecological transition. we will have to draw the lessons from the crisis. while today is not the day for us to see all the consequences and all the lessons that we should draw from this, there are some lessons that are very obvious already, for example, that people who do work that is of absolute importance to all of us – like health workers, cleaners, supermarket workers, etc. – need to be valued according to their importance, not just by applauding them, but also by paying them fairly, i.e. much, much better. our health system should not be subject to austerity and should not have to aim to gain profits. hospitals, doctors and nurses are what we ultimately all depend on, and they need to be able to perform their tasks and have capacities and reserves. as i myself come from a medical family, both the daily struggles of the health system as well as the risks doctors and nurses are taking in these extraordinary times, strike close to home. the deep appreciation of medical care these days needs to continue post-crisis and to enable a better resourced medical system. this crisis is testing us all – as citizens, as member states, as europe – and while we have to physically stand apart, we can see a growing common spirit among people in europe. all of europe is mourning the victims of the virus. all of europe is applauding the front—line workers. this crisis has brought europeans together in their hearts. now let’s also make sure we are uniting europe in our answers to this crisis, and we will prevail.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, on behalf of the ecr group, i want to express my sympathy with all citizens and companies affected by this pandemic. firstly, i would like to welcome the emergency package of nearly eur 40 billion from current funds in the eu budget. let us, ladies and gentlemen, put pragmatism first. the commission should radically restructure the multiannual financial framework still under negotiation. money assigned to climate policy has to be mobilised to address the corona pandemic. we need more money for corona and less for the climate law which mr timmermans presented here some time ago. to those pushing for the creation of eurobonds – now called ‘corona bonds’ – through the european stability mechanism, i would like to say it is not an effective way to revitalise the european economy. setting up mutualised bonds for monetary financing of national debt would require significant hurdles to overcome, not least in germany, where these transfers would require the consent of the german parliament. again, pragmatism first: companies and people urgently need cash. the best way to proceed is to urge national central banks to provide credit at a zero interest rate. bonds go to banks, but we need credit going straight to citizens and companies. ms von der leyen, perhaps i can ask you a question: because you invoked konrad adenauer, a chancellor i very much respect, about what could we have done better – what went wrong? and perhaps we have to ask the question and come to the conclusion that the eu was too late to take this crisis seriously. the united states took action. you criticised the united states for cutting the aviation connections with europe. later on the eu did the same. so were we too much focused on climate change and too little on the corona crisis and therefore we were too late to take action? these are lessons we have to study, we have to discuss also in this parliament, because this is the question that konrad adenauer would have asked right now.
mr president, this unprecedented situation basically puts us all before the same choice: do we contribute, do we care, do we look out for each other, or do we stand on the sidelines and try to make up, do we go purely for our own self-interest? now, dear colleagues, is not the time for political grandstanding or for point-scoring. now is the time to fight this together. and now is not even the time to have a debate about national versus european competences. no matter how frustrating we find it that those who always fight strong competences for the european union, those who always resisted a strong europe, are now screaming the loudest: where is the european commission? no matter how frustrating we find that, now is not the time for that debate. now is the time to fight together. [...] and the pebble that we are contributing here today is very, very small. we are making money available from the european budget, we are putting the slots legislation out of action, but esteban gonzález pons has already said on behalf of the epp group what more needs to be done. first of all, to keep our small and mediumsized enterprises, the backbone of this european union, in shape. more medical supplies, by any means necessary. so, as far as i am concerned, we have another urgent procedure next month, for example to take the medical devices regulation out of the way. now is not the time to unleash new legislation that potentially prevents new mouthguards and so on from coming onto the market. so as far as i am concerned, those colleagues are coming together again to make sure that that material is available wherever possible. the real contribution is made by the cleaners, by the baker who reopens his shop every morning, and by all the medical staff. i come from a family of three daughters, of which i have the absolute least important job right now. my sisters both work in the medical field. one is a nurse and head of a department. she's had to transform her hospital in three ways in the last week to deal with this crisis. the other is an operations assistant who volunteered to be deployed to combat this outbreak. they are the heroes of this crisis, not us. we're contributing a very small amount. the big debate is coming up soon, and we must make our contribution again, and that is on the longer term. do we want to be as dependent on other parts of the world as we are on basic medicines? if india turns the switch, we'll run out of paracetamol. and if the swiss pharmaceutical giant roche, which cannot provide tests itself, refuses to make available the formula of its test fluid, then in this crisis i ask myself: who is the boss here, the pharmaceutical industry or the people who work here to make society better? and just as hospitals have protocols in place to deal with new situations over the long term, so the european union will need protocols and a crisis unit to manage future outbreaks. i'm closing up. the older generation says to me: the current conditions remind us of the second world war. you can't go and stand where you want and there's shortages in stores. unnecessary shortages, by the way, but they're in some stores. the younger generation -- my son is nine -- will remember this time as a time we thought would never come. the debris will not be as big as it was after the second world war, but we will have to clear up debris after this crisis. and then the big question is: do you want to be with those who connect, who care for each other and who care for each other, or with the equals who call from the sidelines? i have made my choice and i thank the president of the european commission for wanting to be part of the connectors and the builders. she has our support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president von de leyen, we are facing perhaps the most serious crisis since the second world war: the covid-19 epidemic has spread with frightening speed and claimed thousands of lives in europe and worldwide. first of all, i express my sympathy, also on behalf of the democratic party delegation in the european parliament, to the sick, to the families and to all those who have lost loved ones, and i thank the doctors, nurses and health workers who are fighting on the front lines. only a few weeks ago, in this house, we italian members of the european parliament warned of the seriousness of what was happening in italy, the first european country to be affected. to deal with the situation, the government has had to introduce increasingly stringent measures, asking the population to collaborate in eradicating the virus and lowering the infection curve. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. these measures have, however, come at a very high cost to our economies and to the lives of thousands of people, who have seen their income and freedom reduced in recent weeks. i am thinking of those who have been asked to stay at home, particularly those in the world of trade, tourism and entrepreneurship, with enormous economic losses and risks to jobs. i am thinking of those who have to go to work, in addition to the medical and health personnel mentioned, of all those who are keeping the country and europe together in these difficult weeks: the trucks, the workers, the grocery store workers, the law enforcement. i have therefore signed and strongly support the call by the european trade unions for every decision taken today, at european and national level, to be taken with the world of work at its centre. the european commission has put in place good measures to provide immediate liquidity to the countries of the union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ecb also introduced a very significant purchasing programme of 750 billion which is in addition to previous programmes. the stability pact has been suspended, we know that. but now we need an extraordinary plan for reconstruction, and therefore even greater cost-sharing at european level. as a democratic party we are fighting to demand that this european response be up to the challenge, as citizens and organisations are demanding with so many demands and petitions in these hours. for example, science for democracy and humans; the call of the academics led by roberto castaldi and daniel innenarity, who are collecting, together with many high-level calls and requests from citizens, a lot of signatures. president von der leyen has said it well: this is a european crisis, not a national crisis, and it must be dealt with as such. its cost, therefore, must be shared. together with the socialist and democratic group we have launched an action plan based on 25 proposals in the short and long term: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. on the health front, vaccine research and the purchase of medical supplies must be centralised at community level. but now we also need to reform the health authorities and the tax rules, which have proved to be unsuited to the emergency, and to extend the system of own resources, to overcome the exhausting negotiations of the member states and to increase the funds to meet the challenges we face. italian president conte, together with president macron, president sanchez, president costa and five other heads of state and government, sent a letter to their european counterparts, addressing many of these issues. today, all these leaders will be meeting together and the european parliament must send them a clear message: i would like to ask the commissioner to take this matter seriously and to show the determination that we europeans need to fight for a common cause, as president mario draghi has just written. fail and you will bear the brunt of your failure and the failure of our entire history, represented by this house, that miracle which liliana segre reminded us of just a few weeks ago, the miracle of a united europe. let us therefore fight this crisis together, as europeans engaged in a common struggle. if we fail, this crisis and this emergency will not give us another chance.
mr president, commissioner, what an emotion it is for us to speak this morning in this house, so similar and yet so different from the familiar one we know. our first thoughts this morning are of course with the victims and their families and our infinite thanks to the carers and all the others who are on the front lines, who are on the front lines, often at the risk of their own lives. thank you, thank you very much, and thank you on behalf of all my colleagues who, due to lockdown, were unable to be with us this morning. the commission has therefore taken strong measures to deal with an unprecedented health crisis and economic and social tsunami - i will not go back on the measures announced by president von der leyen. that's good, that's essential, but it won't be enough. we need a european marshall plan, with the very likely abolition of the taboos that this will entail. we all know - and we have said it many times - the narrow powers of the union in the field of health. but the whole world is reinventing itself today. in the face of the pandemic, the european union and the member states have been slow and have moved in a dispersed order. i heard the president tell us that since tuesday, the demand for masks, gel and respirators has been met. but this tragic cacophony faced by all the health workers, in all the hospitals, in all the nursing homes, by all those who are on the front line and are still on the front line, can never happen again. i'm coming to the point i wanted to talk to you about this morning: medication. four molecules are currently being tested by researchers from seven member states, under the european banner: validation of the results is expected in six weeks. what are we gonna do while we're waiting? the us and india are moving forward and making massive takeovers of hydroxychloroquine. this is one of four pathways being studied: already used in china and france by professor raoult, an old molecule effective against malaria that is now being validated against covid-19. in the meantime, with her, we're saving lives. there are ethical issues, but i'm telling you, we're saving lives. i think the commission should talk to the pharmaceutical companies and make sure that stocks are available if and when the treatment is approved. whether it's this one or one of the other three. it's a precautionary principle, plain and simple. except to dissolve, then, because it is also, and we haven't said it yet, an existential crisis that we are going through here. make no mistake, this is a battle we must win because the great danger we face is that the day after tomorrow we will be back to business as usual. that's a no way. i am confident that europe will emerge reinvented and stronger from this crisis.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the european institutions, as usual, have been sleeping through this crisis and have been slow to react. national states have also had to take measures to protect the lives and health of their citizens. if national action had not been taken, the disease would probably have spread much more and the problems would have been much greater. but now is not the time for this conversation, now is not the time for politics. we'll run it after the crisis is over, and we'll fight you after the crisis is over. now, ladies and gentlemen, we are expected to do one thing - adequate, meaningful, timely measures to protect economies. if this union is to continue to exist, the single market must be re-established. if you want this union to continue to work, you have to keep manufacturing, trade and transportation going. i'm going to focus here on just two aspects of what we need to do in the coming months, and make the quick decisions that our constituents expect us to make. i understand the temptation to be a medical expert, a virologist, but our constituents sent us here to take meaningful economic action. first of all, transport. you forget about the mobility package, you tear it up and throw it in the trash. if this package had been put into effect, if the eastern drivers, bulgarian, polish, czech, etc., had been fired and expelled, now the shops in belgium would be empty and we would all be picking grass and chasing squirrels in the park - something which, as you saw from china, is not a good idea. the 'mobility' package is deleted. we need to take urgent action to compensate the carriers. whether it's on a truck, whether it's at a workplace, whether it's in some other way, these measures have to be taken, because without transport there's no economy, there's nothing in the shops across the european union. secondly, the green deal. cut it and put it in the "mobility" package. we live in the green deal now, folks. airplanes don't fly, manufacturing doesn't work, the air is clean, the birds chirp, and people don't have jobs. there should be an immediate moratorium on carbon emissions. this speculative tax, he steals from the economies and gives it to the banks. for bulgaria alone, this is 350 million euros per year. i want this money to stay in the economy, both the bulgarian and each of you, your economies. these are the measures which the european commission must take immediately, without any delay, without any delay, without any delay and without any red tape. thank you for your attention. be healthy, be calm, maintain personal hygiene and instill confidence. that's what we're supposed to be doing at this point, being in the workplace.
thank you, mr president, and thank you to the european commission. you just thanked the nursing staff. i think it's important, but i think you should have apologized, too. you should have apologized because austerity was clearly a mistake. you could have taken it. you could have said yes, that's right, these cuts, these savings in public health, today they're killing. i saw a slogan on a french hospital that said: "you count the money, we count the dead!" because today, there are people in europe who are dying because there are not enough beds, not enough respirators, not enough masks. and that's not because of a lack of markets, it's because of austerity. and this policy must not be suspended, it must be brought to a definitive end. i hear people still say that the european union will do everything to save the euro. i think that time is something that people can save. i think we should say: "whatever it takes for our public health system, whatever it takes for the health of people". want people are more important than winsten. lies must be kept in check. please step away from the savings dogma.
for the greens/efa group mr president, my fellow citizens, i am speaking to you from the brussels chamber of the european parliament, where, in normal times, the heart of european democracy beats, a heart that today beats slowly, a sign that we are all affected by the pandemic. these are serious days. our thoughts naturally go first to the tens of thousands of victims of the virus and their loved ones, facing an unexpected death and mourning made more difficult by the very circumstances of the lockdown. we also want to express our deep gratitude to all those who care for the sick and the victims, day after day and at the risk of their own health. we also care about all those who, in the face of the pandemic, are on duty to ensure that our societies can simply continue to live. europe is facing its worst crisis since 1945. the shock of the coronavirus has exposed the flaws in our societies, exposing what too many policy makers have so far refused to see or hear. today, some people seem to discover that austerity is killing, while years of underfunding our health care and elderly care services are sending thousands of people to their deaths. they seem to be discovering how globalisation driven by profit alone has made our societies vulnerable. they are aware of the damage caused by social inequalities: millions of europeans have been plunged into poverty and forced unemployment in less than a month. many of them can't even afford to feed themselves, while food banks are seeing their demand skyrocket or worse, have to close, due to insufficient support from our governments. with the crisis, they realise that those who were considered 'at risk of poverty' by the statistics yesterday have now fallen into poverty. whether it is educational inequalities, the digital divide, access to decent housing, quality employment or adequate social protection, the situation reveals and further accentuates all the dimensions of the precariousness experienced here in europe. today, the invisibles cannot be forgotten. that is why, beyond the immediate impact of the pandemic, i am deeply concerned about the consequences it may have on our societies. the first risk is that once again the most vulnerable are the ones paying for a crisis for which they bear no responsibility. i am thinking of those who are confined to cramped accommodation or are left to their own devices without a fixed home; the number of women in employment is increasing. the european union is also committed to the protection of the rights of asylum seekers in the event of their return to the eu. to the people of the south, already weakened by war, dictatorship, conflict, resource depletion and climate change, who will take the pandemic to the full. if our collective response to the pandemic is like what we did after the financial crisis a decade ago, inequalities within and between our societies will explode, threatening their very existence. the second risk is that our democracies will be permanently weakened, battered, as in poland, or even suspended sine die, as in hungary, in the name of the health emergency. that the powers be seized by governments at the expense of parliaments, the judiciary and an independent press. and may we see our societies move inexorably, in the name of their security, towards a state of permanent and widespread surveillance. third, the pandemic could provide the perfect alibi for all those who have built their fortunes on the unlimited exploitation of our planet to put a stop to even the most belated, even the least ambitious attempts to bring our societies back into harmony with the nature of which we are a part and on which we depend. climate change, the collapse of biodiversity, the depletion of resources have not been stopped by the coronavirus. a rebooting of the global economic machine without discernment could give a fatal boost to these dynamics that are even more lethal to our societies than the pandemic. fourthly, the crisis could deal a fatal blow to the idea of transnational democracy that is the european project. when the pandemic hit our shores, the restrictions imposed by several member states on the export of health and medical supplies to the most affected countries sent a deadly message: it is every man for himself. and today, some persist in their refusal to adopt and lead a collective strategy not only to respond to the pandemic but especially to rebuild and then redeploy our economies. in this respect, we are convinced that the european union has the means, collectively, to rebuild its economy, provided, of course, that we mobilize them collectively. and if we're going to get into debt, we have to borrow together to pay it back together. leaving each member state alone to face this challenge is to condemn monetary union and, eventually, the european union. in this connection, i would like to address myself directly to wopke hoekstra, the dutch minister of finance, and to his boss, prime minister mark rutte, and to all those who are hiding behind them. i would first like to say to them that their country, like germany, finland, austria and all those states which are considered 'sober', have been the first and main economic beneficiaries of the construction of europe. i say to them loud and clear: economic solidarity is the price to be paid for this single market and this single currency which they hold so dear. and it is truly scandalous to hear dutch politicians lecturing on budgetary discipline when their country has been working for decades to deprive other member states of tax revenues that are their rightful own. my fellow citizens, at this point, the picture i have painted for you may seem rather bleak. but you know me, you know the greens, the european regionalists, the pirates, we are not the ones who give up when the storm is raging. the worst is never certain unless it is faced. this crisis, which we did not want, could also open up new horizons for our societies, with victims who are as unexpected as they are opportune. the first could be the hierarchy of professions, depending on their income, which places the bosses of multinational companies, traders - these professional speculators - the rentiers - of whom so few deserve the name of investors - or football stars at the pinnacle of our societies. today we are rediscovering how essential the work of those who care for us is, those who cultivate the land and produce our food, those who enable us to move or those who collect our waste, those who, yesterday and tomorrow, will allow us to learn or who, through their art, make us think, vibrate and broaden our horizons. a second victim of the pandemic is the idea that the market is the best guarantor of general well-being. the global financial crisis ten years ago had already disproved this ideological a priori, but for some it is a hard life. the reality is that the defence of the general interest, and first and foremost that of life, is the responsibility of democratic institutions and the public services they organise for the benefit of all. more fundamentally, the coronavirus could deal a fatal blow to the myth that makes humans the undisputed masters of nature. it reminds us that we are part of this nature and that we depend on it for our lives. to be good gardeners, we must know the rules and follow them. another victim of the virus could be this obsession with "more, faster, bigger, further" that leads us to squeeze the lemon out of the planet and all life in all its forms, including ourselves. because we are finding that the global scale is not always the most appropriate and above all that the excessive maximisation of efficiency - measured by the mere ounce of profit - is always at the expense of our resilience, that is to say our ability to take and respond to shocks. in the process, homo economicus could finally succumb, this dehumanizing perversion that reduces human beings to an ego mobilized by the mere maximization of their short-term material interest. because we're rediscovering that life requires, yes, a degree of material comfort, but also time, space, ideas that allow us to relate to each other and to the world. my fellow citizens, the pandemic has brought a sudden and global halt to humanity. it is up to us to seize it and to choose together the path our societies must take. for us, it is unthinkable and totally irresponsible to simply want to "restart the machine" on the course that was his before the coronavirus. but let us beware of embracing simplistic solutions. for example, while the pandemic has exposed the extreme vulnerability of our societies to the international division of labour produced by neoliberal globalisation, self-sufficiency and withdrawal from society do not offer better guarantees of resilience. between local and global, between efficiency and resilience, we will have to create new balances by relying on the diverse wealth of our territories. what we are called to do is to rethink the way our societies work, with life as the compass, a life of dignity for all, rather than profit. this requires collective intelligence and creativity. beyond the immediate fight against the pandemic, it is up to us to prepare this mobilization, with all those who, already today, invite new ways of living, producing, moving, exchanging, being in relationship. we're ready for it. in conclusion, i want to make this clear to the european institutions and in particular to the heads of state or government, represented here by the president of the council, who will meet again next week: in the face of the pandemic and its consequences, the very raison d'être of the european union is at stake. if we are not able to act in full solidarity in the face of a challenge of such magnitude, which affects us all, what is the point of the european union? for us it is clear that national egos will lead us to shipwreck; only together can we find the way to our future.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this opportunity and i hope that we can return to work quickly in the chamber of the relevant bodies. i too want to begin with an italian thought, in this context, to the many tens of thousands of victims who are unfortunately, every day, coming more and more to our attention and to the situation, so dramatic, which is the one we are experiencing, and i also want to emphasize the excellent, commendable work of the health workers, the doctors, of all those who, from volunteers to the police, are making it possible to deal with this dramatic pandemic. but i think it is essential at this moment not only to represent what we hope will happen, but also to reflect clearly on what has happened, and we must say, with utmost clarity, that europe has arrived totally unprepared. it has come unprepared for the coordinating role it should have played, but what is more serious is that some states have shown and manifested a very serious selfish attitude, at a time when the word solidarity, which i have often heard this morning, should have taken over and represented concrete attention to those countries which were imagined to be the only or the only victims of this pandemic. but i think this is a subject on which we must reflect calmly, also because of what will happen in the coming days and months, and i want to do so because after the health tragedy, i think it is essential to have strong and above all rapid reflections on what europe will have to do from an economic point of view to prevent this tragedy from becoming an economic tragedy and leading in a devastating way to an irreversible crisis of europe and the member states. i am therefore obliged to make some essential assumptions here too. the first is that of a bad feeling, that of continuing to reason as we did a few months ago, before this pandemic, both because of the times that are characterizing the discussions, negotiations and postponements, but also and above all because of certain attitudes that also emerge in the resolution that we are voting on today and that our group strongly condemns. finding time and space for political exploitation and for urging the activation of article 7 as a procedure against the polish and hungarian governments seems to us out of place in the light of the situation we are living in and the dramatic emergencies we are facing. and in this context i think it is very important, however, that we also concentrate our efforts on economic solutions. the economic solutions will have to emerge very clearly from the point of view of their concreteness and effectiveness in order to provide answers to the citizens, the workers and our companies, to provide answers to the sectors most affected, i am thinking of tourism, transport, agriculture and manufacturing, all sectors which are in a dramatic situation and which need clear measures, which they have certainly seen in the european responses - i am thinking of the activation of the instruments with the eib, i am thinking of the sure programme - the first important initiatives, which however need to overcome many bureaucratic hurdles and which certainly need to be included in a broader reflection on the european budget. i have heard the defence of certain points which have been firmly established in the discussions of the past few months. if the budget is not changed substantially, it is unthinkable that we can discuss the programmes that have been indicated in the past. the green deal in this context should be an opportunity to review the choices that need to be made in this direction. i believe that at the same time we must try to give clear and effective answers with innovative instruments which can express a europe of genuine solidarity. i think that is what the european citizens really expect and that is the contribution of clarity that the conservative group will bring to this debate and this discussion.
mr president, the last time i spoke in this room, i talked about the real heroes of this crisis, like my sister, who is an orthopaedic operation assistant and she would normally fix your knee or your hip, but she volunteered to assist in a corona ward in a hospital in maastricht. and she has seen with her own eyes what this horrible virus does – people who die alone, relatives who don’t have access to their loved ones, and nurses and doctors trained to heal, losing their patients – sometimes all of them – on their watch. with all due respect to the council – who has actually left this debate now – what she needs now is no theoretical, bureaucratic debate about the single market. don’t get me wrong: the single market needs to be at the core of our economic relaunch after this crisis, as do huge investments, the sure initiative of the european commission, the use of our budget as a true instrument of solidarity. don’t get me wrong. but what she needs right now are face masks, what she needs is protective equipment, and she needs a europe with a heart that shows her that they can deliver and that we will never, ever, become as dependent as we are now on other parts of the world when it comes to the production of our core medicines and our protective equipment. what she needs is solidarity in action, and i’m thinking about the icu patients who have been taken from the netherlands to germany, for example. she doesn’t need to see the images of the russia huggers of this continent pretending that italy gets more support from russia than they get from the eu. that is not true and we need to speak out about that. and, lastly, what she needs is a europe that learns from its mistakes. there were mistakes made in the introduction of the measures against the coronavirus. one member state doing one thing, a neighbouring country doing another thing. and the council is going to repeat the same mistake. the commission wanted to propose unity in an exit strategy and member states tried to stop her. i say to the commission: good for you that these guidelines are there. stay strong and show my sister and all these others that europe can learn from its mistakes. be better and deliver.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the measures taken so far to combat the coronavirus, but we must raise the level of ambition and deliver tangible benefits for all citizens, especially the most vulnerable in this crisis: the poor, women, the elderly, the disabled. in these hours i have been working on the urgent changes to the eafrd, the fund for the most deprived, which will play a vital role in the coming months and which will require more resources in the next budget. the international monetary fund estimates a fall in the euro area gdp of seven and a half points. the extraordinary plan of the european investment bank and the european integration fund provided for by the sure instrument are therefore very important measures to support incomes and protect employment. the priority, however, remains the development of a comprehensive economic recovery plan. a debate has been opened on the use of the esm's 410 billion capital, following the proposal to create a new credit line within it, without conditionality. each country will consider whether to use it, but in any case we are convinced that it is not at all sufficient. i am therefore proud that parliament is today presenting a resolution which puts recovery bonds on the table as a means of financing reconstruction through the issuance of common bonds at community level. this is a request which cannot be ignored at the european council on 23 april. it is not a question of generic solidarity with a few countries, but of preserving for future generations the whole political and social model of the european union as a whole. let's not waste any more time. president von der leyen quoted altiero spinelli and ventotene today, but we must live up to that story, not just quote it, and i say this not only to president von der leyen but also to all the leaders of our union. let's not waste time, like i said, we don't have any more. the vast majority of europeans are asking us to rise to the challenge at last. and i think they're right, let's not let them down.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i have not heard anyone in this room condemn communist china. for their silence, for their secrecy, for the fact that, like their predecessors, the communists in the soviet union, who were silent about chernobyl, these people suppressed the truth, which has cost thousands of lives, including those of our fellow citizens in the european union. well, everyone in this room is a democrat, and no one has said a word about the responsibility of communist china. secondly, mr commissioner, the european commission has been late, and its delay is the reason why the national states have had to take measures and close their borders. thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, i asked the honourable mr michel, dear charles, whether he was not ashamed that the council he presided over was taking a decision today to adopt the 'mobility' package. if you don't know, dear colleagues, at the moment hundreds of thousands of eastern drivers, including bulgarian, polish, romanian, czech, are saving lives in belgium, france, germany, the netherlands. now they are welcome, now you don't chase them, now there is no "mobility" package, now they work 12 hours, sleep in the cabins, you don't take them back to bulgaria, but you want, after they do the job, saving human lives, to leave 200,000 people without a job. that, ladies and gentlemen, is hypocrisy and it's pretty crazy. your honor, i read the declaration, and i can safely say on behalf of the european conservatives that we will not join. in times when you are asked to take economically sensible, meaningful measures, there is talk of poland, of hungary, of refugees, of whatever. that's not wise. i saw you, mr. chairman, don't knock, i'll finish now. ladies and gentlemen, if we do not take meaningful action, you risk turning this virus into a chernobyl for the european union.
mr president, thank you to the european commission, thank you to mr michel for the council. as usual, we hear that the solution is more market. but today we are faced with a colossal market failure. and i'm not just talking about shortages, shortages of masks or respirators. i'm also talking about vaccines and medications. many of the 130,000 deaths could probably have been avoided, because this is not the first deadly corona epidemic. we had sars-1, we had mers. scientists were very close to developing a medicine, a treatment. but what happened? the money's gone. what's the matter? because the multinationals preferred to invest in something else, which was more profitable, like a skin cream. and then the cynicism is total. now that everybody wants a treatment, everybody wants a vaccine, big pharma is ready to grab it, to grab it through patents, through exclusivity to sell it to people because they know there's money to be made. to me it's very clear, there will be no profit on this pandemic, we can't let that happen. that is why we must adapt european legislation on medicines. the protection of patent rights, the protection of big pharma and the protection of human health, can no longer be guaranteed. that is why i would like to ask you today for a european train ticket. binding licenses allow us to break patents and provide cheaper drugs, generic drugs. nelson mandela used them in south africa when the multinationals refused to lower the price of hiv drugs. well, nelson mandela broke the monopoly of these big multinationals. let us do the same today. because the question today is this: do we want to be on the side of nelson mandela or the side of big pharma, the side of life or the side of profit?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i made my last speech in italian in this house, i had no idea that i would soon have another powerful reason to do so again. speaking italian today is a way to express solidarity and closeness to the european union country that is the hardest hit by this damned pandemic, but which represents the symbol of all the countries of the european union. like italy, catalonia is also hard hit by the coronavirus. today would be a day to express our solidarity in every language of the european union, because this health crisis, as well as the economic and social crisis, threatens all our countries. today more than ever the union must see itself as one society. and today is a day to express, of course, our solidarity my own and that of my compañeros and meps, carles puigdemont and clara ponsatí with the whole of spanish society, and our solidarity and our sorrow for the trail of deaths that this pandemic is leaving in it, with special intensity in madrid and la rioja. we need new and powerful instruments to combat the two main dimensions of this crisis: health and the economy. on the economic front, i fully support the proposal to create a fund financed by reconstruction bonds, issued as joint european debt, and backed by the community budget. in the health field, the ambition is to promote health research strategies which, among other things, will allow us to drastically reduce the time currently required to find an effective vaccine to eliminate this or future pandemics. we will only achieve this with more robust public or para-public research and greater international scientific cooperation.
mr president, the experience of the past two months has shown that no nation alone can win against this virus. our response, the european response, has already made a difference on the ground. we have proven that solidarity can win over selfishness and we can help european people in need. three weeks ago we stood in this chamber and we granted eur 37 billion to the fight against corona. and then, in this chamber, i asked the president of the european commission to do more. i said that more is needed and i asked her to allocate every single euro of the eur 4 billion in reserve – unused in the budget of the union for 2020 – to the fight against the coronavirus. and now the commission is proposing exactly that. it proposes allocating more than eur 3 billion to people in need and i think we should approve this. and we should approve it quickly. it will become law and it will reach those in need – patients, doctors, hospitals. but i say more is needed. this is just the beginning and we should plan for the future. europe should help where there is the biggest need and this is in hospitals. we see countries, we see regions, we see cities not capable of saving the lives of their citizens. people are looking at us. they are looking for solutions and i say i have a plan, i have a proposal. let us create a european healthcare solidarity fund to invest in hospitals in need in every corner of europe. i propose the creation of a eur 50 billion fund which should improve the situation in hospitals in every corner of europe and make sure that wherever people live in the european union, they receive good healthcare. the question is, do we have the money? and my answer is of course we do. we should put the money where it is most needed – saving the lives of the citizens of europe. my group proposes this as an amendment today to the resolution and i am asking all groups to unite behind this objective. let’s make this project a project of the european parliament. let us have the european parliament of 2020 be remembered for creating a european healthcare fund which brings hope to the people of europe and which saves lives.
mr president, in the face of this crisis of highs, the union cannot give a response of lows. there is no longer any need for timid political action, there is no longer any need for economic dogma. in the face of this historic challenge, europe must act with political courage, innovation and solidarity to break out of social and economic hibernation without leaving anyone behind. otherwise, our project, our common destiny, is in jeopardy. the eurogroup agreement is certainly a first step in the right direction, but it is not enough. europe needs an ambitious, comprehensive reconstruction plan in the medium and long term, based on the idea of a new marshall plan for common european investment, as proposed by president sanchez. the european union has a duty to help the poorest countries in the world. today, from this house, we must send a strong signal to all our citizens, with the adoption of a first road map, the joint resolution which my whole delegation will support and a series of budgetary and regulatory measures which respond to the health, economic and social needs of our citizens, especially those of the most vulnerable. we must always think of the general and common interest, making immediate use of all the financial instruments and provisions contained in the treaties. and we will do so by defending democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. recovery should be centred on the european green deal, the digital transformation and other priority sectors such as tourism, fisheries and agriculture and the cultural industry. and finally, this is important, mr president, this house must participate fully in the preparation of the reconstruction plan and lead the preparation... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, covid-19 is a sign of the worst but also of the best that human nature can be. the best part of human nature is, of course, the boundless commitment of our white coats, to whom we can never thank enough. the best part of human nature is also all the solidarity that is flourishing all over europe. it is these entrepreneurs who are changing their production chains, it is these small hands, everywhere, who are improvising their sewing skills to make protective masks out of fabric and it is often these same exemplary citizens who call us in and ask us where europe is, what europe is doing, is europe doing enough? so, in economic terms, this has already been said, yes, no doubt, but the future will tell us: stability pact, state aid, unprecedented bazooka, the taboos have literally been blown to bits. parliament this morning is asking for more and above all for europe to launch a new loan, a solidarity bond, the corona bonds, intended exclusively to limit the ravages of this crisis. on the other hand, there are many questions on health and we are not going to hide behind the limits of the treaty forever. today, it is completely inaudible. what exactly did the cdc do, in terms of forecasting, in terms of anticipation? we don't know. why, given the scale of this crisis, has the commission not activated humanitarian aid in the heart of our territory to help the overcrowded hospitals in bergamo, madrid and mulhouse? what has happened to the european medical corps in terms of humanitarian aid and civil protection? we have the means. what we lack here, so far, is boldness. and i wanted to say something, and i would like you to let me finish because it's essential this morning, i wanted to talk about our seniors, our seniors who are paying the heaviest toll of covid-19: one in three deaths in france, one in two deaths in my country, belgium. this is a tragedy. i wanted to tell you, i wanted to tell mrs von der leyen, but she is no longer here, that condemning our seniors to more long months of confinement is not the right message. whether the visitors are tested, whether they are masked, i don't have the solution here, but what i do know is that our elders die as much from sadness and loneliness as from illness. and if i may conclude something off the top of the head, i think they are the great forgotten ones of our european policies. it is urgent to reach out to them.
president, the european union is failing. when it becomes clear in january that a dangerous virus is raging in china, the eu does not take any action. neither the commission nor the council takes decisive decisions on air traffic from china. they do not provide sufficient supplies of tests and protective equipment. they leave the schengen borders open wide open until 18 march. they do not provide for other trade relations with china, or the preservation of our strategic sectors. they failed even to exert enough pressure to shut down those scandalous animal markets or to demand an explanation about the questionable virus lab in wuhan. of course, ladies and gentlemen, the eu is doing something. year after year, hundreds of thousands of so-called asylum seekers are allowed to enter. illegal immigrants who have little or no sanitary requirements. so there's no cordon sanitaire in that area. the eu must not allow the slightest epidemic to be detected in the farthest corners of the planet, or the eu will be financially in jeopardy. the european union is the world's largest exporter of arms and military equipment. the benefactors in brussels have been throwing hundreds of millions of euros at it for decades. last week we saw the commission in overdrive: no less than eur 15 billion billion euro will be used to help underdeveloped countries to combat covid-19, mainly in the bottomless wells of africa. the commission does not seem to know that countries like italy, spain and france are facing serious problems with the corona virus. anyway, some crumbs were handed out. for example, flanders received eur 6 million 6 million. this shows what the eurocracy really stands for. this unsubstantiated elite plays the planet around humanitarian benefactor, but fails when europeans are threatened by a pandemic that originated on the other side of the world. i told you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we will not emerge from this crisis with crocodile tears, loud proclamations and lists of good intentions on phase two, but with the ability to adapt priorities and respond immediately, which was lacking in the first phase of the crisis, when it was thought that covid-19 was only an italian problem. flexibility has now been granted in public accounts, state aid and structural funds. the ecb, after shamelessly sabotaging the italian stock exchange, is doing its job. better late than never. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. we've met him and we don't trust him. let's liquidate it and return the shares to the states to deal with the crisis. green deal: we will say no to new ideological burdens and prohibitions on our businesses, which have already been tested by the crisis, and yes only to virtuous investments. finally, we call for the protection of the frontiers, because while we are keeping europeans at home, it is not acceptable for the ngos to continue to dominate the mediterranean.
mr president, today europe is facing the greatest crisis since the second world war. every day, thousands of people die in our hospitals, residential care centers, or just at home from the coronavirus. people do not understand that some member states have not shown more solidarity and that the eu has not been able to act more forcefully. this parliament has the opportunity today and tomorrow to make it clear to the europeans that we can tackle this crisis together in a decisive way. that is why it is so important that the joint resolution be adopted by the largest possible majority. we fully support the lines of force and the content of this resolution. we must indeed tackle this crisis together more than ever and take further action in the health sector. we must indeed guide our companies, smes, employees, the selfemployed and our farmers through this difficult period. we must indeed resolutely go for european recovery bonds, guaranteed by the european budget, because no one is to blame for this crisis. and finally, we must continue to develop the green deal, but also a new industrial policy, a circular economy and an ecologically and economically sustainable agriculture. i hope that after this debate and the discussion of the amendments, we will not only adopt this resolution, but that we will also implement it as parliament, as the european commission and as the council, in the interests of all europeans and the european union.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, just as in chernobyl, a communist regime first tried to hide the truth about the coronavirus, then to deny its responsibility and finally to evade responsibility. and it also shows how dependent we've become on china. european countries had to beg for the necessary protection. thirty years of globalization have already made china the second largest economy in the world. there it has been hit by unfair competition, dumping, market manipulation and, above all, the naivety of western politicians. the trade deficit with the european union is already eur 164 billion. in addition to dependence, we are in danger of being economically colonized and eventually politically dominated by a communist dictatorship. that's why we need to re-examine our relationship with china. we need to protect strategic sectors and infrastructure from hostile chinese takeovers and infiltrations. we must say goodbye to the naiveté of china and re-industrialize europe. the european union must not allow the ordinary people to pay the price, especially after the immigration crisis and the financial crisis. so protect our jobs and our businesses from the corona taxes on chinese imports.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone that the crisis with the chinese virus will have to restructure the mff, but it is my view and that of my group that this restructuring should not be at the expense of the taxpayer. i see a lot of crazy ideas - tax increases, new taxes, new taxes, new bureaucracy. no, the answer must be the opposite, mr commissioner, and that answer must be the reduction of bureaucracy at both the european and the national level. we see a lot of unreasonable proposals, continuing calls for green deals, for a mobility package, all initiatives that will destroy hundreds of thousands of jobs in central and eastern europe. in fact, the green deal is directly working for chinese interests, de-industrializing europe and moving manufacturing to china, and that should be the exact opposite of the process that we should be pursuing right now. the maximum should be to relieve the citizens and to work for the support of small and medium-sized businesses, not for unreasonable and crazy ideas like the green deal. in conclusion, i don't see why you're embarrassed to hold china accountable and to hold it responsible for the spread of this pandemic.
mr president, there will be money, there will be investment, there will be arrangements. but at the end of the ride, someone's gonna have to pay. we need to pay a little more attention to that. but i have good news. i found money in europe and we won't even have to ask the german worker to pay for the italian billionaire, who then goes to hide his money in the tax haven netherlands. no, i went to look at the forbes list of super-rich. bernard arnault of louis vuitton is worth 70 billion euros. he doesn't know what to do with it anymore. amancio ortega of the zara stores is worth 50 billion euros. i don't know. what could we do with it? or heinz hermann thiele, the billionaire and shareholder of lufthansa who wants to put countless people on the streets in belgium today, who is worth 10 billion euros. fellas, the money is here. let's make those people pay with a crown tax on the wealth of the super-rich. the billionaires will not feel it and for the workers in europe it will make a big difference. what are we waiting for?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament must play a leading role in the process of socioeconomic recovery and in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, which we want to be sound, in a context of major economic crisis. the union's multiannual budget must be ambitious, credible and based on solidarity. to do this, it must understand our new own resources and have a strong capacity for joint investment. the recovery plan must be financed with fresh money, in particular through recovery bonds guaranteed by the eu budget. it must reflect a fair balance between loans and grants. ladies and gentlemen, this crisis requires us to chart a new economic path towards a sustainable economy, guaranteeing european independence and safeguarding our strategic interests. we need to focus on future spending, linked to the climate challenge and strategic reindustrialisation. more than ever, it is crucial for the union to create the conditions for a sustainable, resilient and united europe.
president, the european commission predicts that almost one in ten europeans will be unemployed this year because of the coronavirus crisis. behind these statistics are people who see their dreams and desires dashed and who are uncertain about the future. i think now is the time to invest in people, to keep them working or get them back to work. the social pillar is not free. creating sustainable jobs is not free. poverty reduction is not free, and a little hand clapping from the balconies and just saying our appreciation is not going to get us there. we need to increase the use of social funds in the mff, such as the european globalisation adjustment fund and the youth employment initiative. if we choose to invest in people now, we can avoid a worse crisis and reap the rewards later.
mr president, i thank president von der leyen and president michel for reaffirming, among other things, the importance of the european green deal in the recovery plan. however, the recovery plan must also aim at convergence towards a strategy of european sovereignty in strategic areas such as health - this has been mentioned by several people - but also in other areas. in food, to support producers and farmers, who have this strategy of autonomy and independence, which is extremely important to me. in energy too: we need a recovery plan that takes this aspect into account in order to be as independent as possible in energy matters. it is about european sovereignty and the confidence of europeans. certainly also in the digital sector, which must be revived thanks to this plan to revive the economy and bring this independence to the level of europe. and finally, in defence and security. for all this, we must also have our own means at european level. i am of course in favour of europe finally having its own tax revenues, in particular through a tax on kerosene and a tax on gafa, so that there is this coordination at european level and that the commission has its own resources for the recovery plan, for the future and for european sovereignty.
in writing. the coronavirus has brought us all back to a europe we thought we had forgotten: the europe of borders. the immediate restoration of freedom of movement must be a priority, and we cannot afford to waste any of the tools at our disposal to achieve this. mobile apps to map covid-19 contagion are some of these tools. with the right regulation, and respecting the anonymity and privacy of our data, this technology allows our phones to exchange an encrypted code with the people we come across and, if we have been in contact with an outbreak, to test us and isolate us quickly. however, the existence of different software models for the development of these applications has cast doubt on their interoperability between european countries, with the consequent risk to freedom of movement and, with it, to key economic sectors, such as tourism in spain. we call on the commission and the national governments, whatever the technical model they choose to develop these applications, to ensure their interoperability throughout europe.
the results of the first round of voting today are as follows: amendment no 29 was adopted. amendment no 30: the text is approved. amendment no 31: the text is approved. amendment no 32: the text is approved. amendment no 33 has been adopted. amendment no 34d: rejected amendment 10d: rejected amendment no 11d: rejected amendment no 12: rejected amendment no 13: the text is approved. amendment no 14d: rejected amendment no 15: rejected amendment no 16: rejected amendment no 45: rejected amendment no 18: rejected the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. the commission has also received comments from the complainant on the alleged breach of the principle of proportionality. the commission has not received any comments from the member states on the draft amending budget. amendment no 3d was rejected. the commission has not received any comments from the complainant. discharge 2018: european council and council - amendment 1 rejected; amendment 2 rejected; amendments nos 8 and 9d approved; amendment no 3 was adopted. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the requirements of the directive. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. amendment 3d was rejected; amendment 1 is approved. amendment no 4 is approved. discharge 2018: european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions - amendment 1 rejected; amendment 2d rejected; amendment no 3d was rejected. discharge 2018: the commission shall adopt the following acts: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. the commission has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. amendment no 2, second part, rejected the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. amendment no 1d is rejected. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the requirements of the directive. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of sampled union producers in the union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of fraud in the union. amendment no 3 adopted; amendment no 4 rejected; amendment no 5 rejected; amendment no 6 rejected and amendment no 7 rejected. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of cases of non-compliance with the requirements of the regulation. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the draft amending budget for the financial year 2018 which is due to expire on 31 december 2018. discharge 2018: performance, financial management and control of the european union agencies - amendment 2 approved these are the results of the vote.
we now move on to the second round of voting today. we shall now vote as follows: (i) final vote on the motions for resolutions on discharge; • voting on amendments to the report on the estimated state of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2021 section i european parliament; (ii) the adoption of a resolution on the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community; the voting procedure is the same: the vote will take place using the same procedure as we used this morning. the second round of voting will be open from 1.30 to 2.45 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 5.15 p.m. i would remind you that at 2.30 p.m. the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on vaccines and therapies in the context of covid-19 will begin. (the sitting was suspended at 1.23 p.m.)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, on behalf of the croatian presidency of the council, it is my honour to contribute to parliament’s discussion today on vaccines and therapeutics in the context of the covid—19 pandemic. this pandemic constitutes an unprecedented challenge for europe and the world. it has brought huge human losses and suffering, as well as social and economic damage to millions of people. it has put our healthcare systems under exceptional pressure. it has wide-ranging implications for all of us in every part of the european union. as we gradually start lifting confinement measures, we will have to learn to live with the coronavirus under strict conditions and constant monitoring. only the development, production and deployment of effective and safe vaccines and treatments will hopefully provide us with a lasting solution to this global health crisis. vaccines and treatments will be crucial for europe, but they will be even more critical for our most vulnerable partners with fragile health systems such as africa. our ultimate and common goal, therefore, is to accelerate the development, manufacture and delivery of vaccines and treatments for everyone, everywhere at an affordable price in the shortest possible time. the eu and its member states have embarked on a worldwide race to find a safe and effective vaccine and treatments to counter the spread of the coronavirus. regarding activities at eu level, already on 10 march at their first meeting after the covid—19 pandemic reached europe, eu leaders committed to supporting research as part of our common response to the outbreak. the european parliament has also raised issues relating to the development of vaccines and treatments in its resolution on eu coordinated action to combat the covid—19 pandemic adopted on 17 april. on april 7, the croatian presidency organised an informal videoconference where ministers responsible for research and innovation showed their determination to coordinate their actions and welcomed ten actions for immediate response to the crisis. on 7 may, in an informal videoconference organised by the commission, many member states supported the idea of preparing a covid—19 vaccination immunisation plan. to accelerate the coronavirus vaccine, the commission has launched a dedicated covid—19 data portal that enables researchers to upload, access and analyse research data. currently, there are more than 90 vaccines in development around the globe, but only eight are so far subject to clinical trials. three candidates for vaccines are receiving support from eu funding through the research programme horizon 2020. member states are also investing in several candidates. moving to treatments, it is encouraging to note that there are so far more than 40 developers of potential treatments for covid—19 who have contacted the european medicines agency and the member states for scientific advice. most of the treatments proposed are medicines currently authorised for other diseases. clinical trials are currently ongoing to determine their efficiency for the treatment of covid—19 patients. the eu has allocated resources via horizon 2020 to discovery, an eu—wide clinical trial to test treatments involving more than 3 000 european patients. the eu has already committed over eur 500 million to different research and innovation initiatives, including approximately eur 48 million to 18 projects on vaccines and treatments via horizon 2020 research programmes, and eur 72 million in public funds for a therapeutics and diagnostics innovative medicine initiative with an additional eur 45 million in expected contributions from the industry. additionally, the eu has redirected eur 150 million from smes and start—ups for innovative solutions to tackle the outbreak via the european innovation council (eic) accelerator programme and up to eur 80 million to curevac, a european vaccine developer, by a common commission aid initiative. in order to respond to the urgency, the european medicines agency will speed up its regulatory procedures so that marketing authorisation of safe, effective and high-quality covid—19 related medicines and vaccines can be guaranteed without unnecessary delay. turning now to activities at international level, on 24 april, the who launched global cooperation for the accelerated development, production and equitable access to diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines. in response to this call, on 4 may, the european union, several member states and other g20 countries co—hosted the international coronavirus global response pledging conference. the initiative has raised eur 7.4 billion, including eur 4 billion from the eu and its member states. this is a very promising and important first step. there are a number of key challenges. once new therapies are identified, the challenge will be to scale up production and distribution to make them available to patients throughout the world at an affordable price. as regards vaccines, the first challenge is the patient’s safety and to produce a vaccine in extremely high quantities, since demand is global. at the european level, already in december 2018 the council adopted a recommendation on strengthened cooperation against vaccine—preventable diseases, which has the double aim of reducing inequalities between member states and increasing security of vaccine supply. eu instruments such as joint procurement could be used in that spirit to help ensure fair distribution and solidarity among all member states. in order to tackle other important issues, such as securing sufficient and autonomous production capacity in the european union, fair licensing and fair intellectual property rights conditions, it is necessary to involve all concerned actors, including industry and the public sector. in this context, i find it very encouraging to see that several manufacturers have agreed to pool their resources. public authorities, pharmaceutical companies and multilateral organisations must work together to reach the common goal of making vaccines and treatments available to as many as possible. we will defeat the covid—19 crisis and we will do it with a shared spirit of european and global solidarity and responsibility.
member of the commission. – madam president, from the very first day of this crisis for us in the commission, one consideration was evident: no country in the european union or worldwide can battle this pandemic alone. we need to take bold steps and we need to take them together. containment measures have proved efficient so far and have allowed us to diminish the spread of the virus. but they will not eradicate it. for this, we need further action on three areas: first, early diagnosis; second, targeted treatments for the ill; and, third, a vaccine that will ensure immunisation. we will also need all three to be widely accessible and affordable because, as long as the virus exists in the world, no one can be safe. this is why the european union is taking the lead in organising a coronavirus global response pledging initiative, which took place on 4 may. the aim was precisely to lead the world effort to develop diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics against the virus as soon as possible, not only to make it possible to get to these objectives, but also to ensure that they are accessible on a fair and equitable basis once they are discovered. i am delighted to have this opportunity, on behalf of the commission, to discuss these issues with you in a bit more detail this afternoon. first, vaccines. on vaccines, there is no doubt that this is the best way to truly exit the pandemic and avoid a resurgence of the disease. however, developing a vaccine is a complicated process that depends on close coordination, financial support and unity. each of these considerations was evident during the pledging event of 4 may that the european union led at global level. first, we managed to attain our overall objective with an ambitious level of funding raised. we mobilised eur 7.4 billion (usd 8 billion) in pledges, of which eur 5 billion came from team europe. the second – and equally important – aspect of this pledging conference was that we sent, as the european union, a resounding message of unity and solidarity across the world, and we also proved that, in today’s turbulent times, the european union remains a force for good for the planet. this was only the beginning. the pledging marathon remains open until 23 may, so i take this opportunity to encourage all of you to engage in helping to find new donors, public or private, and to join forces in this unique worldwide effort. here comes the big question: where are we on the vaccines? as the croatian presidency has just indicated, the who has identified 8 vaccine candidates in clinical evaluation and 94 candidates in pre—clinical evaluation. three candidates are receiving support from the commission through our horizon 2020 programme, and member states are also investing in several candidates. we need to focus efforts on finding the most promising solutions. that’s why the commission has proposed that an eu—wide network for clinical trials be set up. such a network will ensure a critical mass of data from patients, help to identify the most promising vaccine candidates or therapeutics, and swiftly move them into the most appropriate clinical trials. once developed, of course, a vaccine would need to pass a rigorous approval process, and we in the commission will work very closely with the european medicines agency to ensure that this process moves as swiftly and as quickly as possible without, however, compromising on safety and efficacy. producing the vaccine is only half of the battle ahead of us. we should also ensure fair, widespread and equitable access to the vaccine as early as possible, not only to all europeans, but also to the rest of the world. there are many tools that we could use to achieve this – from public—private partnerships to increased manufacturing capacity, to advance purchase agreements to ensure production. the commission is currently in intensive discussions with both our member states and vaccine producers to identify clearly how we can best support member states in the purchase and deployment of vaccines. all options are on the table and we are not excluding any of them. last week, health ministers discussed the possibility of a uniform covid-19 immunisation strategy throughout the european union. this would also help us to maximise access to the vaccine when it becomes available and i look forward to hearing your thoughts on these approaches this afternoon. let me now turn to therapeutics. the commission has reacted efficiently to support member states in this regard. i don’t want to beautify the situation. we all know that the early stage of the crisis was not an example of optimal coordination. many measures were taken rapidly under pressure at national level without the necessary coordination. but, once this first stage went through and our member states saw the added value of cooperation and the interdependence that binds them together as the european union, with the help of the commission, we reacted efficiently to support them. let me recall some of these actions. since day one, we have coordinated closely with all important actors – the european medicines agency, the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), the national agencies, industry – to avoid or tackle bottlenecks, to better anticipate future shortages and to assist in the adaptation of production. in parallel, we have issued concrete guidance on the rational supply of medicines, regulatory flexibility and clinical trials to avoid unavailability of treatments. we have activated the resceu stockpile of medical equipment, including therapeutics and vaccines, and we have established a covid clearing house mechanism that facilitates the matching of the needs for medical equipment with available supplies. thankfully, the situation is now beginning to stabilise in the eu, but we must also continue working on the supply side. with this in mind, we are supporting a dedicated industry cooperation project to increase the supply of critical intensive care unit medicines. parallel to that, the european medicines agency and the commission have put in place a mechanism to support the rapid development and authorisation of new covid-19 medicines and vaccines and, as we speak, we are currently preparing a joint procurement for such intensive care unit (icu) medicines. let me conclude by saying that today we are, of course, discussing the short term, which is saving lives and winning the battle with the virus on the medical side, but i would like to finish with a few words about the medium and long term. the pandemic has revealed and amplified important issues with our supply chain for medicinal products. i’m very aware of how dependent we are on important pharmaceutical products or ingredients. so we need to come together quickly and identify solutions to the three emerging weaknesses from the crisis: how to strengthen our coordination mechanisms and supply chains, how to boost our preparedness, and how to improve our society’s overall strategic resilience. the commission is preparing a new pharmaceutical strategy that will take account of the lessons learned during the pandemic and make the eu’s pharmaceutical system future proof and crisis resistant. yesterday, president von der leyen had the opportunity to give you a bit more detail about our very intensive work on the recovery initiative, which is to be expected in the next few days. i would say that part of building this resilience for cohesive and resistant european societies passed from a very rigorous health programme that would bridge this asymmetry between what europeans expect from europe in the area of public health and what europe has in terms of legal competence to face up to this challenge. commissioner kyriakides and i will look forward to working very closely with this house on this endeavour. but first, i am keen to hear your thoughts on the challenges and solutions and i am very willing to take them on board and report back to you at my earliest convenience. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all long for normalcy. it's not just the economy that's suffering from the lockdown, but a lot of people personally. but the coronavirus is still among us, and it's still very dangerous. so we have to be careful, to be careful that there is not a second wave. and we also need to use digital solutions. i was a little annoyed and disappointed that commissioner reynders only listed the concerns this morning. we need to be on the offensive. and we have to look at italy, spain, france and belgium, the countries that have suffered the most from the crisis. strangely, there's hardly any complaints about the lockdown. in my country, germany, it seems that there is much to complain about, even though we have fared much better. i call on my fellow citizens: 'stop mourning me and show solidarity with those who have been hit much harder!' of course, the only final solution is a drug or a vaccine. here, personally, after many conversations with experts, i'm optimistic that we'll have a drug and/or a vaccine much faster than under normal circumstances. the conference held by the european commission last monday was a clear sign of cooperation and dialogue. but unfortunately we also need a plan b. because the united states did not participate in the conference at governmental level, and therefore we should continue to rely on dialogue, but also be prepared, for example, to issue compulsory licences in a coordinated manner in europe or to use trade policy instruments. when donald trump threatened tariffs on european cars, jean-claude juncker drove to the white house and issued a counter-threat. and the health of our citizens must be at least as important to us as the automobile industry. ursula von der leyen says: "we must speak the language of power". that is also true of this subject.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the epp is talking about compulsory licences, but there is a big problem to be solved. around the world, there is a very intense search for a vaccine to treat and control this pandemic. commissioner šefčovič spoke this morning about solidarity. he said that a country's wealth should not determine whether its people can live without this virus. he's right about that. and yet today we read in the media that the ceo of a french healthcare company says, "if we develop a vaccine, it will go to the americans first". i wonder if the money we europeans spend on research and development is seen as a gift, as something to which a company is entitled. this is not solidarity, this is capitalism with people's lives. we cannot accept that. that is why we need, quite clearly, equal access to a vaccine in the european union and worldwide. i am glad that my group has drawn up a plan for a european health union, which shows that we europeans have recognised that we are too dependent on non-european countries for health care and that the next crisis will come. we're not talking about antimicrobial resistance at this point. we have a lot more to do in this respect, and i look forward to working with you on this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i first want to congratulate the commission on the successful pledging conference of last week. a lot of public money indeed has been pledged now to secure funding for the development of vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics. this money, however, should not come as a blank cheque to the pharmaceutical industry. policymakers should take the necessary measures to make sure that vaccines and therapeutics will be accessible to all. first, i believe that the eu should support the w8 in setting up a transparent and inclusive governance structure that will decide on the development, production and equitable distribution of future vaccines and therapeutics globally. all relevant stakeholders, including civil society and the global south, should be represented in this governance structure. second, the health of our citizens should not only depend on the goodwill, as we understood it, of the pharmaceutical sector – we cannot rely on voluntary measures only. if needed, eu member states should be able to make use of compulsory licensing. while we greens have always been supporting this, i was happy to hear that colleagues of other political groups like mr liese just now are also aboard for this idea. but to facilitate the use of compulsory licensing, it’s also crucial that the eu urgently makes its legislation on data and market exclusivity more flexible. i invite us all to collaborate on this. colleagues, let us use this health crisis to fundamentally improve our pharmaceutical system in safeguarding public health over profit maximisation. if not now, then when?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i’ve got a question that i don’t want you to answer. that question is, how much are you willing to pay to save your life? and yet, unfortunately, that question is still very much used by many pharmaceutical companies to decide on the price of a treatment or a vaccine. that is what explains why a belgian family had to pay eur 1.9 million euros for a life-saving treatment to novartis. that also explains why the ceo of sanofi dares to threaten to give the vaccine first to the united states. and that explains why today, belgian health authorities fear that the vaccine will not be available to all. so that is why it is so, so important for us to make sure that no pharmaceutical company gets an exclusive right on the coming treatment or vaccine. and granted, the european union has, by and large, talked the talk, and that is important. we’ve spoken about a common public good that will not belong to anybody. however, when we talk the talk, you should also walk the walk, because otherwise it’s just hypocrisy. and that is why i was so surprised and, indeed, disappointed to read on the website of the commission that you were not going to touch the intellectual property rights. now for me, it’s very, very clear. we raised 7.4 billion. that 7.4 billion should not serve the private profits of pharmaceutical companies. let me be clear: in a pandemic, patents have no place. we have a right to a cure and we have a right to a people’s vaccine.
madam president, governments, companies, scientific committees, everyone is racing to develop a vaccine against covid-19 as quickly as possible. but the important thing is not only to do everything now to speed up this development, but also to ask whether there are some things that could have allowed us to shorten the research time considerably. for example, previous research for vaccines against sars and mers was stopped during the first phase. if phase 2 and 3 had been completed, some of the work to discover the covid-19 vaccine would have been done today and we would have saved a lot of time. is there any useful research on future health threats that is not being done today for lack of commercial interest, because in that case the duty of public institutions is to provide the means and resources so that this research can be carried out successfully. let us learn from this health crisis, anticipate it, and do everything we can to protect the health of the citizens we represent.
mr president, every decision taken in the european union must be based on solidarity. we know that when we stand together, shoulder to shoulder, we are stronger to overcome this challenge. we have already worked and agreed that in these times of crisis there will be joint procurement of ventilators and other needs. a clear example of solidarity in practice. this was only the first step. the joint procurement should also be made for when the covid-19 vaccine is on the market. let us show our political commitment to do so now. and so we need to seal the deal in the european union now to buy the vaccine together. to control the spread of the virus and save lives, there should be no competition. only when it is available to everyone, in every member state, can we begin to talk seriously about how we will return to normalcy in a timely, tangible and efficient way. i know that the maltese minister for health is also working towards this in the council. this is a position we are also working towards and should be agreed by all. in conclusion, people expect the european institutions to give direction; they offer a sense of direction that gives them peace of mind. together we can provide it and give it by our decisions and actions.
madam president, commissioner, yesterday we thanked the heroes – the doctors and nurses, the truck drivers and the parents – but colleagues, i just want to ask us all: to what extent do we protect the healthcare workers in the european union? is the level of health care enough? this is an issue i want to raise with the member states as well. we have to raise this issue, and i urge the commission to come up with a directive where we deal with the level of the healthcare workers as well. and i want to say, i prefer to bite the bullet of social distancing on the beach rather than see people suffering from this crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the whole world is waiting for the vaccine. but think about what happened to aids, the time it took to try to get it, and we still haven't got it. and so we have to learn from our mistakes, we have to learn from what happened. europe found itself totally unprepared to deal with this pandemic. as it moved into china, europe discovered that it didn't have factories that made masks, because the work around those masks wasn't remunerative and it was cheap to make them in china, and then it discovered that it didn't have gloves, which are only made in taiwan or malaysia. and he also discovered that alcohol production was contingent. a series of mistakes that made us find ourselves totally uncovered. this virus has been terrible, it has completely torn our lives apart. you see, for a christian and a catholic like me, it's a terrible experience not to be able to say goodbye to a loved one in person, but to have to say it in videoconference. and so we realize that this virus must be fought, and it must be fought with the solidarity that europe must find again and above all understanding that there can be neither north nor south, but europe must be united and solidary.
i have to say, madam president, i thank you for that and also for this discussion and the presentation by the commission of the measures taken at this stage. i think we've already learned a lot from the coronavirus crisis. first of all, it's incredibly important that we work together to learn more about this disease, and also work together to figure out how to cure it, how to vaccinate it. we've learned a lot about that, and that's really good. but i also think it is important that the next step be taken in such a way that we learn from it that we must not be dependent on the world outside the eu. we simply need to ensure that we, too, at european level, produce protective agents, produce important medicines and, of course, produce the vaccine when it is ready. we must do this by working together, by co-financing it and coordinating it much better across the member states than we have done up to the corona crisis. so the signal is that we can only solve this together if we work together, but also protect ourselves in europe together.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this very useful debate. i identified two families of issues from your statements. one – let’s call it the quest for resilience – and the other one is what happens once we have the vaccine? how do we make sure that we avoid the problems that we saw in the early stage about access to the distribution of personal protective equipment? let me start on the quest for resilience. there is no doubt whatsoever that europe has to draw the lessons of this pandemic. it’s evident, it’s written on the wall. this is something that society will impose on all policy-making at all levels. as far as the quest for resilience at the eu level is concerned, let me repeat what i said earlier. we have to bridge this asymmetry of expectations between what europeans want from europe in areas where europe has nothing in terms of legal competence. this is a major issue. this contaminates public opinion and projects europe in a negative light. i really hope that this will be, together with my colleagues, one of our main lines of action in the months and years to come. also on the quest for resilience, we have to make sure that the recovery initiative sheds light and reinforces a self-standing health problem that is able to perform not only under regular, normal circumstances, but is also designed to face up to major sanitary crises and pandemics. this is also a major challenge in front of us. finally, many of you also raised the issues of production, back to the eu, pricing, strategical autonomy, the place of europe in the world and geopolitics. when it comes to pharmaceuticals and all these questions, i want to assure that they will be addressed in our pharmaceutical strategy communication, which i will be presenting to you, together with commissioner kyriakides, later this year. let me now come to – and finish –the other cluster of issues of concern to you, which is what happens once we have the vaccine, how we make sure that access is fair, equitable and widespread distribution is available to all europeans and the rest of the world. i think there are three options for us, a three—point strategy that will allow us to act effectively in this respect. first, we need to ensure immediate access to vaccine supplies. for this, we do have instruments to be deployed, namely we can create an eu stockpile of vaccines, serving as an immediate response through the european union civil protection mechanism, we can organise an eu joint procurement scheme, which will be secure purchase commitments in a stable framework, and the commission could also procure directly, on behalf of member states, vaccines making use of the emergency support instrument. this was about immediate actions. second, regarding secure production, we are already in close contact with industry and we are exploring together with them concrete measures such as public-private partnerships to increase manufacturing capacity or to advance purchase agreements to ensure production. thirdly, delivery. in the beginning we might need some prioritisation. this is precisely the objective of the european immunisation strategy that i was referring to in my opening statement. such an immunisation strategy could set priority strands for certain segments of the population, but we will also need to ensure access worldwide because, as long as the virus exists, no one is safe. this is again precisely the purpose of our global leadership in the framework of the pledging conference that should not end on 23 may, when we have this critical mass of financing to speed up the production of vaccines. but we will also have a role, after 23 may, to make sure that the rest of the world and especially those parts of the world that have more vulnerable health systems, like africa or latin america, will not be left out of this development.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, i wish to thank you for this important debate. we have one common goal around the world and that is to defeat the virus. as the commissioner said, no country is able to defeat the covid-19 pandemic alone. there is only one way to defeat it, namely with a combination of prevention through vaccination and treatment of people who have fallen ill. unfortunately, we still have to wait for treatments and vaccines to be found. the european union has mobilised important resources and it is fully involved in a coordinated global effort to develop, produce and employ vaccines and treatments for all. a positive dynamic has developed with the launching of the coronavirus global response pledging effort. the european union is fully committed to support member states’ efforts within and outside the union. we know that we can now count on the cooperation of all eu institutions in this endeavour. in particular, we hope we can coordinate with the european parliament. until an efficient, accessible, affordable vaccine is developed, it is important that we continue respecting the epidemiological measures to protect all our loved ones.
in writing. – covid-19 has proven one more time that vaccination represents one of the most powerful and cost-effective public health measure. the entire world is currently waiting for the development and deployment of a vaccine anti covid-19, in order to return to the daily routine before the pandemic. we have at the moment more than 100 covid19 vaccine development projects worldwide, 8 of them are already in clinical trial phase, of which 3 are supported by horizon 2020. once developed, it is important to ensure swift authorisation by our trusted partner, the european medicine agency and work in close collaboration with european pharma sector to provide the necessary production capacity. with great concern, i want to remind you that eu is the region of the world with the lowest confidence in the safety and effectiveness of vaccines. one of the strongest drivers for vaccine hesitancy are misunderstandings about the benefits and risks of vaccines, the severity of vaccine preventable infectious diseases and the fear of potential side effects derived from misleading information. consequently, i stress the ongoing need to reinforce our actions, together with the commission, member states, ema and ecdc to tackle vaccine hesitancy, improve vaccination coverage, promote sustainable vaccination policies, and contribute eventually to european and global health.
in writing. it is not the first time that we are facing shortages of goods at the international level: today it is medicines, tomorrow it will be vaccines. we know that a fair distribution of these will not only ensure health, it can also avoid dramatic friction between countries. unfortunately, this has already happened within the eu, calling the institution into question. it is time to join forces, to reach agreements between countries. we call on the commission to assume its role of coordinating the member states, giving priority to the essential and forgetting ideological proclamations which only materialize resentments and accentuate division. we need to anticipate health problems, we need fair distribution based on patient needs, on actual demand, not on storage forecasts. in the face of scarcity, give priority to those most in need. when the vaccine arrives, clarity on this will be essential. we ask the ecdc to share information on the situation in each country: test results, treatment protocols, conclusions... the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. despite the fact that more and more member states are fortunately able to implement a gradual relaxation of the corona measures, it is also becoming increasingly clear that a treatment or a vaccine against the virus remains indispensable. the european union rightly plays a leading role in international cooperation in the search for this vaccine. the successful donor conference on 4 may, which raised eur 7.4 billion worldwide, is a good example. further cooperation across borders will be needed. however, when a vaccine or a treatment is found, it will also be essential to ensure equal access for all citizens. we cannot allow the big private companies to profit through patents on a vaccine that the whole world is craving and for which billions of euros have been spent in public research funds. research that has been publicly funded should also remain available in the public domain. the vaccine must be safe, affordable and universally available. i think it's clear that this is our social duty. every citizen, in the eu and beyond, has the right to equal access. this can only be done through international cooperation, with countries, companies, ngos, universities and other research institutions.
president, all lives matter. what was a normal expression until recently has become taboo. the elite of journalists, politicians and professors are trying to project an american problem of police violence onto europe and exploit it for their own left-wing political agenda. but it's not working at all. we have no problem with police violence against black people, quite the contrary! officers are being attacked by foreigners in excess. we have no problem of structural racism, on the contrary! there's no place in the world where people have so many opportunities. we are not privileged because of our white skin color, quite the opposite. our society is the result of the hard work and genius of our ancestors. that 's the society they want to destroy . the left acts out of self-hatred and wants to erase our history and our culture. we're never going to apologize for who we are. we will never allow people to kneel because of the colour of their skin, because this is pure anti-white racism. we are part of a unique civilization and we have every right to be proud of that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. other mr president, after several months, the negotiations between the united kingdom and the european union are still going on without significant progress on the most sensitive issues, bringing the scenario of a no-deal scenario to the fore. in these circumstances, it is neither acceptable nor responsible for the united kingdom to refuse any extension of the transition period and at the same time not to take a constructive attitude in the negotiations and insist on not even fulfilling the commitments it has made in the political declaration and the withdrawal agreement, in particular with regard to the establishment of border controls in northern ireland. so if boris johnson's government really wants a deal, its negotiating attitude has to change. the european parliament fully supports michel barnier's team in their search for a good agreement and also makes clear what it does not want: a bad agreement that does not safeguard the single market or our environmental, social and labour standards. the threat of a bad deal and the threat of no deal are dangerous games that have everything going wrong.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. mr president, time is running out, but the question is whether there is really an affectio societatis - the will to negotiate sustainably and to reach a result - present. both european companies and workers expect an agreement. especially now that an economic hurricane like covid-19 is sweeping through europe and the business community. failure is not an option! for my country alone, 42 000 jobs are at stake, and for the eu, 1.2 million in the event of a hard brexit. the draft report before us today can and must facilitate an agreement. this text sets out the principles for a new partnership. first of all, i would like to stress that the withdrawal agreement must first be implemented clearly and in its entirety. the smes must be given security. secondly, i would like to stress that any new partnership agreement must respect the rules of the european single market. thirdly, the agreement must be respected on a permanent basis. colleagues, we have only a few months left. but i very much hope that the necessary agreement between the eu and the uk will be concluded with a great affectio societatis.
it is time to think seriously about the european union as it stands. the lisbon treaty entered into force 10 years ago, and the schuman declaration celebrated its 70th anniversary this year. the question of the future of europe has only become more relevant because of the corona crisis. corona has clearly exposed certain pain points in the construction of our union. despite the strong catch-up movement that followed, the eu was unable to control the divergent measures taken by the member states at the beginning of the crisis. we must not be blind to this and dare to learn from it. the social and economic consequences, the worst since the second world war, also require a high degree of resilience and a strong union able to act decisively. i am calling today for a thorough debate on the role of the european union in cross-border health crises, so that we are better prepared for the future. the european union's toolbox in this area has proved too limited for the major works expected of the union. we must seize this moment to reflect on how to make the eu more efficient and, above all, more effective.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this commission has promised to be a geopolitical commission. yet, so far, i have not seen proof of this. instead, i’ve seen the external action service bend over backwards to appease beijing. at next week’s eu-china summit, it’s clear that the chinese are unwilling to make progress on any major issues. so, i ask the commission, i’m asking you why are you giving beijing a free photo op while they use all their energy to wage a global campaign against democracy? the people of hong kong were promised their own system of governance. china is reneging on its promises with the national security law. if you are to truly defend democracy at home and abroad, we cannot just issue statements of support for hong kong democratic forces. we must back up our words with actions. the eu is trying to chart its own strain of strategy. i do not subscribe to some of the cold war rhetoric that we have seen from washington. but, as margaret thatcher once said: ‘the trouble with walking down the middle of the road is you get hit by traffic in both directions.’ where do you want to stand?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the spread of disinformation and fake news is a direct threat to our societies. it undermines our democracies, it harms our values and it affects our interests. but during a pandemic, as the minister said, disinformation puts lives at risk. but not even deadly consequences have stopped foreign actors from spreading fake news. the amount of influence, operations and misleading campaigns, mainly from china and russia, has been massive. interference and hybrid warfare should never be a strategy, but especially not during a global health crisis. the commission’s communication is another important step towards a solid, comprehensive and effective strategy against foreign interference. we need tougher regulations. the eu has been targeted with unprecedented actions. they require a firm and unprecedented response. the s&d group is at the forefront of this fight. at our initiative, today we will vote on the establishment of a special committee against foreign interference and disinformation. urgent action is the only way to protect our democracies, and the european parliament is ready to play that role.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the days when there was more malicious disinformation coincided with the time when the european institutions or parliament had not yet reacted effectively and forcefully, or not with the maximum effectiveness and forcefulness, to the pandemic. that vulnerability was exploited. why would you do that? because there is a strategy to weaken the democratic rule of law, our democratic systems, and the elements of vulnerability are those by which these strategies are introduced. it seeks to have people addicted to lies, fanatical against those who think differently, acting as new soldiers on the new battlefield on the internet. and these fanatical groups polarize public space, they weaken ideological pluralism and therefore weaken our democracies. that's the whole point. so they shout more and they scare more and we have to defend freedom of speech and a fair play space and fight against the pandemic of fanaticism that can undermine democracies. the soldiers who make disinformation don't know it, but the geo-strategists who want to end our democratic systems do. and we're gonna defend ourselves and, of course, we're gonna win this.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, we are on a dangerous path. more and more governments are threatening a foundation of our western democracy, free speech. the european commissioners are also taking action: there was an action plan against disinformation, a strategic communication task force, a rapid alert system and even the private sector was warned to act against disinformation. fact-checkers have to pinpoint our information, and again, of course, the old adage applies: "whose bread one eats, his word one speaks" and whoever does not believe that can always outsource the appointment of fact-checkers to me. now all this, because of course the population is less and less at the mercy of the traditional parties and the classical media, and so the regime loses its grip on the minds. so i say out loud: stop with the bloody censorship! long live the diversity of opinion!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution, which seeks to regulate the free movement and protection of workers, whatever their status, poses a problem. once again, the committee is trying to establish the almost divine character of the free movement of workers, and therefore of the seconded work. the recitals to the resolution state the need to implement the principle of equal treatment and non-discrimination, which is in conflict with the principle of national priority which is so dear to us. to classify the same category of workers as frontier workers and seasonal workers is to force our hand on a text which contradicts two fundamental principles in the interests of our compatriots: to abolish the employment of posted workers and to establish a national priority.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this pandemic highlights precarious working conditions for 17 million mobile workers in the eu, of whom hundreds of thousands are cross-border, frontier and seasonal workers. better social protection was already needed before this crisis, but the lack of safety measures on asparagus or strawberry farms, or in slaughterhouses in the netherlands or germany, opened many eyes. health and safety measures against covid-19 are not always respected at the workplace, and that is why written instructions like display notices must be used. crossing borders must also be easy for them, and a better coordination of social security systems has become a matter of high urgency. these workers are in the front line: in hospitals and nursing homes in austria for example, where many female health workers from romania and bulgaria work overtime. they provide a vital workforce. we must provide them with vital social, and health and safety, protection. this is a matter of social justice.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a resolution on the rights of seasonal and posted crossborder workers and i am particularly pleased to be able to co-introduce it not only with the left but also with the right and even the liberals. i think this is great, because for some of you, this may be the first time you've admitted that the absolute priority to the market is detrimental to workers' rights. i am sure you are not yet ready to talk about social dumping. if you change your mind, we have tabled an amendment, you can vote on it. now you say that the coronavirus crisis has opened your eyes to the suffering and exploitation of mobile workers in europe. i don't think that's very likely. i think what moved you was the pressure you felt, the pressure and the rage of these exploited workers, piled on top of each other in little vans or even entire flights, from romania to germany for example. but, hey, whatever made you move. what is important to me is to see how we can continue, because here again we are faced with a non-binding resolution. so you vote this, very well, now let's take the next step and adapt the european rules so that, indeed, workers' rights are given priority over economic and market freedoms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the covid-19 crisis has presented special challenges for professional commuters, and i have noticed this especially since i live in a region where there are very specific regulations for these professional commuters. i come from the burgenland region, a part of austria that has been on the border for a long time, where you appreciate the cooperation of all states, the living neighbourhood and the mobility of employees. this is of central importance, particularly where it has been felt most strongly in my region: in the health and nursing sector. it is important that the european parliament sends a clear signal to these mobile workers, to the seasonal workers, and that we send a common signal here, namely that we must also show appreciation. i think -- and this is particularly important -- that many people were afraid at the moment when the borders were closed: where am i going to stay for the next weeks and maybe months? at work or with my family? we are grateful that the european parliament has given a clear signal today and that the situation has been remedied very quickly in many areas.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of a joint resolution by the european parliament is an important step towards ensuring better conditions for seasonal workers and is in fact a clear message that we will not tolerate any form of modern slavery. the messages sent by us, the social democrats, about the existence of serious problems and violations of european legislation on labour and social rights are confirmed. in the case of romania, the government itself has endangered the health of hundreds of seasonal workers by taking decisions that have not allowed the application of european legislation. the resolution takes up the solutions included in our repeated messages to the european and national institutions and these solutions are supported by over 50 000 people who have signed our petition to the european institutions. but the problem is not solved. the romanian workers who took to the streets, those who appealed to the courts, those who were crowded into planes and buses have high expectations from us. the european union must protect all workers and intervene when social rights have been violated, as it did in the case of romanian workers.
mr president, the covid crisis has shown how important seasonal workers are in meeting the food needs of all european citizens. these workers deserve our respect and recognition, and in that sense we thank the rapporteur and the contribution. it goes in the right direction of protecting them and somewhere of safeguarding them, which is part of the whole agricultural system, in quotes. in relation to frontier workers: almost one in two frontier workers in my region is a frontier worker. i think it is important to be able to make their lives easier in a crisis. there have been many difficulties, especially at the borders. it would be a good idea to produce, perhaps at european level, a kind of work passport for frontier workers to facilitate checks on them, and also to make life easier for companies which have had to multiply administrative procedures, and thus to organise this, perhaps at different levels. we could give a five-star passport, if i may say so, to health workers who cross the border to meet health needs on both sides of the border. let's work on this proposal. i think she could make a difference in everyone's life.
madam president, every day, brazil under jair bolsonaro is moving further away from climate goals: record deforestation in 2020, weakening of environmental protection services and indigenous rights, a bill that endangers protected areas and indigenous people. the situation is so serious that the european parliament is beginning to formally oppose the agreement, that the main british distribution chains are considering boycotting brazilian products, that ngos are approaching the european ombudsman because the commission denied the impacts of the mercosur agreement before concluding this agreement. but the trade dg, the trade dg, is trying to minimise these impacts, even though the commission and you, mr commissioner, keep saying that climate objectives are still central. i see no sign of the green diplomacy you are pursuing in your own capacity within the framework of present trade policy. to implement its own objectives, those of the green deal, the council and the commission must denounce and demand the withdrawal of the brazilian bill, adopt binding legislation on corporate social responsibility, make trade policy contribute to climate and sustainable development objectives and, finally, recognize that the mercosur agreement does not meet its social and environmental objectives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus has put the survival of the european union in question, perhaps even in jeopardy. the european central bank is doing well, the european investment bank is doing well, and the esm credit line is doing well to protect our health. i believe that italy should use that 36-37 billion euros to improve health facilities, even in the face of a possible new second wave of coronavirus. but now we cannot go backwards, there can be no compromise downwards at the european council on 17 and 18 july. we must absolutely defend the original proposal of the european commission. the northern countries who think they can cut back on growth-support measures are wrong: we must continue to have investment, we must have loans to enable industry and small and mediumsized enterprises and agriculture to recover from this crisis. it would be a mistake not to do so, it would be dangerous for the very survival of the european union.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. responsibility, above all, to make sure that we use this money wisely. the only thing that makes sense is that as we stand together now to help rebuild post-corona, we are simultaneously investing in the future of our youth and in the future of a green economy. ladies and gentlemen, i am very sorry that i have little confidence in the european semester here, and it is also significant that mr michel is no longer here to discuss this with us. the financial negotiations will certainly be different, and i hope they will be different. this european semester is almost as extensible as you like: in the end, taxpayers will pay for governments that have been sleeping on their reforms for many years. we therefore call for greater commitment to innovation. we are calling for a financial quota for future topics, erasmus, the energy transition, the circular economy and digitisation. we are demanding control and veto rights for the european parliament. the european added value and the european semester must not be contradictory in the face of the crisis. we can only guarantee this with a stronger involvement of the european parliament.
president, in times of coronavirus restrictions and economic hardship, people want solutions and not north-south conflict. the big buyers of the european recovery fund are the multinationals. they benefit from direct economic support and from investment in our economy and the internal market. yet they hardly contribute to taxes. let them therefore contribute to our recovery, let them pay for a subscription to the single market, let them pay for pollution. but above all, do not put the bill to the ordinary taxpayer, in the north or in the south. and yes, there are conditions to the spending. - i'm sure you do. for countries and for companies. european money must make us prosperous and sustainable and must never cause harm, never be accompanied by harm to people, the environment or the rule of law. so, prime minister rutte, stop the fighting. we must not keep the multinationals in the lurch and choose the dutch interest. choose a repair paid for by those who benefit and do not contribute now. choose a sustainable and prosperous europe and the netherlands.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to make it very clear that the european semester is not the right time to do this, since we are faced with a huge package of financial aid. we are currently seeing in the rule of law how member states are in some cases dealing with commission recommendations. we need concrete ways of identifying and also of checking, also as the european parliament, the respective flows of payments, the type of projects, those who receive the money - whether it is the special committees from a technical point of view or whether we are in the committee on budgetary control from a financial point of view. we must get out of a kind of post-carriage era in the field of the transmission of data concerning the financial and budgetary spheres. we need a digital information system that provides all the necessary data in real time and, in particular, that makes the economic stakeholders public or visible, so that we no longer have to wait for months for information, as is the case today, and to start out-of-the-box research operations to obtain adequate information on projects and their financing.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the meeting of the heads of state or government is a litmus test for the five objectives, commitments and needs that mrs merkel has outlined today. this parliament supports the principles, the basic approach of the german presidency of the council. we cannot say that about all the remarks made by other heads of government. i therefore call on them to follow the example of mrs merkel's speech and the vision of europe. we must not put our future and the five merkel goals on the back burner: values, cohesion, climate neutrality, a digital, confident and innovative europe in the world. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. if we do not recognise that an exceptionally courageous act of solidarity is needed, we are not aware of our shared responsibility for the future of europe and the consequences for our own country. in conclusion, anyone who delays, water down or even blocks this debate is guilty of the next generation in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i believe that the next european council is a historic meeting and a historic council. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. the history of the european union itself is at stake, and if this european union is willing and able to go forward and secure the future of europe and of future generations, then it is inconceivable to me, and i fully agree with the previous positions of my colleagues, that there should be any division between north and south. if the south goes bankrupt, the north will automatically go bankrupt, and the european union itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would agree with the president of the european council that the european union respects the rule of law, the principles and values which are fundamental, and that not a single euro should be given to countries which violate them. the first and foremost violation of these principles and values is by turkey, which attacks european union member states but also offends our religious feelings by wanting to turn a universal symbol of christianity and civilization, the hagia sophia, into a mosque. these countries have no place in the european union funds, which is why i propose excluding turkey from the next multiannual financial framework. thank you, sir.
madam president, a recovery plan cannot be envisaged without the confidence, the confidence of the europeans regained. in fact, saving rates are extremely high in a number of countries. this confidence is particularly necessary if europe regains its sovereignty in such strategic areas as digital technology, food, defence, security and, of course, as we have seen, health and the health sector. so this recovery plan should be geared towards this sector to give europe more strength. it will also have to be supplemented by increased own resources, some of which could come from carbon taxation at our borders, for example, or the taxation of gafa. it will give europe, the european union and the commission more power and more resources, and i would even dare to say more autonomy and more sovereignty. and this will avoid the blackmail of certain member states who are playing with the future of all europeans. this regained autonomy, this sovereignty, is also worthy of the trust of the europeans. i believe that this is the way in which we can give a new lease of life to the european union as a whole.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would first like to thank the european commission for this ambitious action plan on combating money laundering and terrorist financing, which incorporates many of the recommendations of the green group. so the problem is not so much the absence of european rules as their effective application by our member states. and so it is indeed time for directives to be partly transposed into regulations, for the whole european legislative arsenal to be transposed into our member states and for the european commission to conduct infringement procedures against states that do not respect the rules, because the fight against money laundering is a priority for citizens. we know that the crisis has opened up new opportunities for criminals and financial criminals, taking advantage of the vulnerability and fears of citizens, and that 98.9% of criminal activity, of criminal money, is not recovered today. and so the priority is also to transpose the directive on the freezing and recovery of assets so that this money is returned first to the victims of crime and also used for investments in our public services.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it’s actually very sad that we needed a worldwide health crisis to put health at the top of the european agenda, but let’s look forward now. let’s learn from this crisis and let’s ensure that, from now on, health remains at the top of our agenda. beyond enhancing crisis preparedness, we should also work towards a real ‘health in all policies’ approach and take action in three other fundamental domains as well. one: let’s focus on prevention, as this benefits citizens and national health budgets. two: let’s revise our pharmaceutical system to ensure access to affordable medicines for all. and three: let’s reinforce the ‘one health’ approach. any efforts to work on a healthier europe are doomed to fail unless we address the interdependencies between human health and the health of our planet. it’s now up to us. will we remember covid-19 merely as the world’s worst health crisis in recent history, or will we also remember it as the start of a better european public health policy?
in writing. any european health strategy should encourage the rebuilding of our public health systems. this means giving up the bad habit of encouraging member states to cut public health care. this is the real meaning of integrating health issues into all policies: a break with budget cuts and the commodification of health. the public sector not only offers more accessible care, but also has a huge advantage in terms of frontline care and therefore screening. let's support, restore, develop the public hospital. let's invest in prevention and screening. and finally, let's avoid the privatization of the future covid-19 treatment or vaccine. public money finances research and development. the final product should be public too. take the example of american inventor jonas salk, who discovered the polio vaccine. when asked who patented his vaccine, salk replied, "the people". there is no patent. could you patent the sun? other the polio vaccine thus entered the international market without patents. the disease has now been eradicated in many parts of the world.
in writing. – the european union is in dire need of health reform. we need increased eu cooperation to create a union-wide, future-proof health care system, set common european minimum health standards, and to use the lessons learnt from covid-19 to propose reforms. first, we must formalise the working methods established during the pandemic and ensure the creation of a health-crisis unit. we also need a european health union and health care index to track the progress of healthcare systems. second, we need to futureproof our medicinal product purchasing system. all member states should be able to fairly negotiate medicinal prices with industry and avoid unfair competition for medicinal prices, accessibility and distribution. we must also upgrade our pharmaceutical patenting rules which currently stifle innovation and need a monitoring system that ensures that national stockpiling initiatives are proportionate to countries’ needs. we should also lower our dependency on third countries via an updated eu strategy to address obstacles in the pharmaceutical supply chain and to attract back manufacturing sectors for raw materials that previously moved out of the eu. finally, we must invest more heavily in research and innovation to ensure that our health care systems are always at their strongest.
in writing. this pandemic should be a game-changer for our vision of healthcare in the eu and for our determination to put the eu in the cockpit of such a crisis. we have to seize this momentum. first of all, cooperation must be the starting point. we must exploit the european economies of scale by pooling expertise and resources. the vaccination strategy is a good test case in this respect. but let us go on with this in the context of the cancer plan, the new pharmaceutical strategy, etc. and a strong health care system is a guarantee of solidarity. affordable health care is a fundamental right, interwoven with our european pillar of social rights. the location of your crib should no longer be the determinant of how long you can live in good health. thirdly, the protection of the people on the front line must be paramount. not just the many health care workers, but also workers who may be exposed to the virus on a daily basis. prevention through a healthy working environment is also an essential part of this. our respect for those who care in care must be more than a token applause. let's learn lessons, not just for the next crisis, but also structurally. an economy of well-being puts people at the centre and health in all policies assumes public health as a criterion in policy decisions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, gas drilling in cyprus, belligerence in the eastern mediterranean, annihilating christian communities, buying a russian—made s—400 missile system, threatening french ships, transferring jihadi fighters from syria to libya, blackmailing europe with migrants if we do not support their actions in syria. colleagues, i have to ask, with friends like these who needs enemies? the past few months have shown that turkey under erdoğan cannot be a close and trusted ally of europe. this is the behaviour of an autocrat and we cannot continue to entertain autocrats on tuesday and then on wednesday claim we are a continent based on democratic values. the time has come to admit that the current framework for our talks with turkey, the membership framework, is completely out of touch with reality. it’s time for a fundamental strategic rethink of eu—turkey relations. we can have a relationship that is built on trade, but we should not be naive to the fact that both our values and interests are not converging, they are diverging. friends do not behave in the way that turkey has been behaving. so, if we cannot be friends, let’s take the turkish approach and have more transactional relationships. maybe we cannot be friends, but turkey needs to be a better neighbour and you can do that.
madam president, president von der leyen, president michel, yes, the agreement is historic. of course, we acknowledge that. but as a doctor, i must say i am disappointed, because of the cuts in the health programme. we are in the middle of the crisis. we are at the beginning of the second wave. we all see the figures rising again in europe. i cannot understand – i cannot explain to my colleagues – why the member states did not understand this as an absolute priority. and we cannot compare the figures in the proposal now with previous figures because we did not have a covid crisis then. i’m also a researcher and a professor. i cannot explain to my students why erasmus has received cuts. i cannot explain to my fellow researchers why horizon europe is not what it should be because we need that also for innovation, for start-ups, for smes, for our power, our leadership role in the world. we’ve believed the ambition of the commission in respect of the green deal and the digital transition, and these are the priorities that are aimed to the future, that we are missing in this proposal. so please, if we negotiate the mff, listen to us and top up these essential programmes. (applause)
madam president, i welcome the agreement of the council. european citizens need the recovery fund to get back on their feet and face the future with hope, but to boost back our economies, we need more than hard work and money. we need to boost all our creative potential and that means good government, rule of law, science and technology. that’s why it’s so disturbing that the council has used science as the cash cow for the negotiations. covid-19 makes the value of research more evident than ever, but 27 prime ministers failed to realise that, so i call on this parliament to stand up for the science budget. council overruled the rule of law and science, but i am glad they agreed on a control mechanism so that recovery funds are used productively. spain will be a major recipient and this money needs to be put to good use – and yes, this requires external control because spain is the member state where the royal house is the centre of a massive corruption scheme but the government and parliament refuse to investigate. spain is the country that spends billions on submarines but cannot feed its dogs, or airports where planes never fly. spain is the champion of high-speed trains, while commuter transit remains dangerously underinvested. spain is the country that bails out the banks, not the people, and never ask banks for any money back. so i’m glad someone will be looking closely at how these funds are spent.
madam president, president von der leyen, president michel, the european councils usually generate a lot of expectation and most of them a lot of disappointment and frustration. but this has not been the case and i want to congratulate you on that. you've done a fantastic job and you've gotten a historic deal. they finally had the courage to do what had to be done. the qualitative leap we are making in the construction of europe is, at last, in keeping with monnet's words that europe is built in crises. the amount of the plan is less than we asked for, but it's still important, and i just hope it's enough. what is not enough is the financial framework and that is where they have been wrong. we cannot go back to approving budgets for the third time that are lower than those of the previous seven years, because the needs are still growing. and i'm not talking about the needs generated by the coronavirus crisis, because that's what we have the recovery plan for. but before this virus, we had many needs and they also needed to be funded. i am talking about continuing to do research against cancer or against alzheimer's, continuing to support innovative industrial projects and more efficient modes of transport, helping our unemployed with training, helping our young people to enter the labour market, fighting child poverty. that's still there and it needs strong budgets too. and it is a pity that the european spirit which permeated the summit did not succeed in making the eyes of those cold accountants look up. but let's sit down, see how we can make it better. in revenue and in expenditure, because both are important. because i'm sure we can find a deal and it will be a just perfect deal.
(start of speech off mike) ... i have to tell you that we were with a few lone rangers that, since the outbreak of the financial crisis, started to say that eurobonds and new own resources were needed, and everybody said, ‘impossible, unrealistic, a dream that will never happen. this is europe.’ well, it is happening, and so i’m pleased with the outcome of this summit, and i think it’s historic. yes, it’s historic. the first leap forward was the internal market; the second leap forward was the euro; the third leap forward is the fact that europe will issue bonds for the first time and will increase its fiscal capacity in a dramatic way. so, i’m pleased and this is historic. but there are also weaknesses in this plan, let’s be honest. and the most important weakness is due to what? yes, the rule of unanimity. and that’s the reason why the pan—european projects have been gutted and that the direct transfers to the member states and the rebates for the frugals are still there. i think that – i will be very blunt here, in this house, and i think that i’m speaking for the whole house –this house will not give its green light for this package and for the mff if this is not rectified, if we again do not have these pan-european projects as the priority in the mff – and it’s easy to do! the easy way to do it is to start with its own resources earlier than foreseen in the plan. in the plan, it’s foreseen for 2023. my proposal is to start in 2021. and finally, my last point, madam president, before you use your weapon again against me – like every time. there needs to be a co-decision by parliament. we’re going to spend and collect eur 750 billion. that is only possible with democratic control. we are in europe. we are not in china or in russia. (applause)
it was a good job, mr verhofstadt, that i didn’t cut you off! the holidays are coming...
i have to say, madam president, we live in special times. i think we all know that. of course, special times call for special measures. there's a lot at stake in this financial package. because it's a one with 12 digits behind it. it's about a lot, it's about a lot, a lot. these packages and these decisions will affect generations after us, fiscal policy will affect generations after us. strangely enough, everyone at this summit seems to have come home a winner. merkel, in short, macron, came home and announced profitable negotiations, got something out of it for their states. however, if you have ever negotiated, common sense tells you that this is simply not possible. not everyone can come out of negotiations a winner. recently there have even been voices saying that germany and france will be the beneficiaries of this aid at the end of the day because the criteria have been changed, because the focus has been on size. and it's amazing that everyone leaves these negotiations a winner. i just don't have the faith. apart from these pickpocketing tricks - admittedly, there are very, very large pockets - comes what we did not want: the debt union. the compatibility of this debt union with the eu treaties has yet to be assessed; some of my colleagues have already mentioned it. because the rule of law can't just apply to others, it has to apply to us. what was clear at this summit, however, is that we are seeing a blockage. we are witnessing a north-south and an east-west block. for a supposed union of solidarity - which this union is supposed to be - this can only be detrimental. solidarity can never be a one-way street.
madam president, i would like to thank you. let me begin by stating that this package of measures is in direct violation of articles 310 and 311. it says it plainly: the eu cannot borrow money for its budget. it is also a matter for us members of the house. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. then there is much nagging at the poor countries. we have a situation in sweden where people are dying in the medical queues and in the operating queues. meanwhile, we have a prime minister who's agreed to send only more money abroad. they say we've been getting discounts. in fact, we've got an increased expenditure of six billion more in membership fees. how you can stand there and call it a discount, it's beyond my comprehension. now you are giving the eu tax rights too, and they get their own funds. but stefan löfven, i want to say to you: i hope the voters' verdict in 2022 will be harsh on you and your party, because you sold out sweden. you sold out the swedes.
for the first time, mr president, the european union is going to borrow common money to put it in a pot and then make it available by transfer to countries in need. that's a step in the right direction, let's just say. especially to the mark ruttes of this world, who even in this pandemic, have not shown a shred of solidarity. to all those people who, when they see that the retirement age is lower elsewhere, don't think: perhaps our workers can retire earlier, but they can impose antisocial dictates on other countries. but i will also warn you because you have encapsulated this avatar of european solidarity in the european semester. the european semester allows the commission to advise the member states 63 times on health care. so, if today you're going to use this plan to impose social reforms, that won't pass. if you allow yourself to make workers pay for this crisis, you'll find us on your way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the exhausting marathon of the european council has produced a historic agreement, which far surpasses the hurdle of tomorrow, but the horizon of the future is still uncertain and far away. it was imperative to decide and it was decided. we have saved the amount of nextgeneu, 750 billion to overcome the mistakes of austerity, and as an italian i thank prime minister conte from the bottom of my heart for fighting tenaciously and courageously against the downward bargaining of the "frugal". but as a european, i say to you that if it had been our parliament that had decided, and not an anachronistic intergovernmental body held hostage to electoral blackmail, we would today have much more than 750 billion. the programmes for the europe of tomorrow - horizon europe, eu4health, erasmus+ - would not have been mutilated; we would have web, carbon and tobin taxes as early as 2021, and the leaders of the richest 10% of european citizens would never have been able to prevaricate on the other 90% by reaping the odious privilege of rebates. we are ready to fight as a parliament, you can bet on it! that is why the conference on the future of europe must lead to a revision of the treaties: the council's unanimous vote may win a little bit of everything, but it will never really win europe.
there's a lot of talk in this house about the rule of law by people who have no idea what it means. for me, the rule of law means freedom, national independence and democracy. the rule of law means rule by law instead of rule by man. my generation has fought for 30 years to make this not just an inherited privilege for those living in the western half of europe. we fought for it, but i'll also tell you what the rule of law is not, which is what many people here would like to use it for. it does not mean asking for unfixed, unwritten rules. it doesn't mean double standards. the one where you punish someone for the same thing that someone else is praised for. it's not about sanctioning or silencing political ideologies that some people don't like. and that's what some people here use the rule of law password for. they're being emptied and used for party politics. the rule of law is not a matter of bending the rules of the vote to get the result you want, as was done recently in the vote on the sargentini report. a man of the rule of law should not be afraid of dissent, but give the accused the floor to defend himself. in the recent debate on hungary, you refused to allow the hungarian minister to express his position. one of the oldest principles of the rule of law comes from roman law: nullum crimen sine lege, no punishment without law. in this house, however, solutions are being pushed that do not determine the violation of the rule of law on the basis of normative, legal criteria, but that impose severe financial penalties even in the case of suspicion and do not guarantee equal treatment. this is the communist model. it's an orwellian model of thought policing that wants to punish intent. it's the soviet way, the extortion of the law, to blackmail and exorcise political dissent. we've seen this before. we've been victims of similar pursuits before. we've defeated them, and we're not gonna let them come back through the back door. europe deserves a better, a much better rule of law. and madam president, if you would allow me a point of order: in this house some members like to lecture certain countries to certain politicians about observing rules in the name of the rule of law. however, this parliament is in breach itself in this moment, of its own rules of procedure rules 182 and 187 which clearly say that voting can start only after the debate on the floor is finished. we are debating still, but the voting has already started. this is a violation of our own values. so, let's sweep in front of our own house first before we condemn others.
just for the record, mr szájer, the final vote takes place after the debate. i move now to the next speaker, mr fernández, for one and a half minutes.
madam president, first of all we must recognize that the agreement reached by the european council in recent days is a historic and important step in the process of european integration. this agreement is a continuation of the request made by this parliament in our resolution of may, in which we called for the creation of a financing instrument through community debt to be repaid with more own resources to help the european economy in the face of this crisis. an important, key, fundamental agreement in which some government, such as the spanish government, led by pedro sánchez, has played an essential role. but there are also some issues in this agreement that we have to question. and the first of these is the regular budget, because some items are not growing as they should. and i will make special reference to the just transition fund, because those regions - like my own, asturias - which are also facing a major challenge, namely to modernise their economy, need stronger european support. and on the other hand, for the recovery and resilience mechanism - an instrument to help countries in investment and reforms - there is a governance in the european council agreement that this parliament cannot approve. we need governance with clear democratic legitimacy; we need governance in which the citizens see their interests represented. and this parliament will have its say and we will meet the council in the tripartite negotiations before the end of the year.
president, thirteen billion euros: this is the amount that belgium has to contribute net to the european union's coronavirus recovery fund. in addition, our contribution to the european budget is increasing by more than one billion euros a year. however, belgium is already facing a 50 billion euro budget deficit and 120% of public debt due to this corona crisis. who's going to explain this to their constituents? who is going to explain to my citizens that there is no money for decent pensions, that there is no money for health care, that there is no money for tens of thousands of families on the brink of ruin, but that billions are available for the european union's st. nicholas policy? i can't explain that. or maybe it is. the more money the eurocrats get their hands on, the more power they gain over states and, therefore, the more control they gain over citizens. creating dependence, without people ever having chosen to do so. because for 15 years these euro-fanatics have lost every referendum. years of sabotage and blackmail over brexit did not work. to prevent even more countries from playing their democracy and choosing their freedom, they now want to introduce european debts and european taxes. in this way they want to build a financial and fiscal prison from which there is no escape. this european union is becoming something we never chose.
mr. chairman, please! the european council has reached a difficult compromise on a new budget - a budget that is very important for the recovery of the eu economy after the crisis that has hit us. for this, the participants - all the participants - are to be thanked. i think the role that prime minister mateusz morawiecki played in reaching this agreement deserves special recognition. the criticisms of the conclusions of the summit are not only exaggerated, but sometimes they are hypocritical. what my fellow meps, and unfortunately also those from poland, call the rule of law mechanism is an attempt to create a non-treaty tool to influence the member states, a mechanism which is not based on facts and data but on sympathy and antipathy towards national governments. the fact is that all new laws that are adopted in poland are in line with existing law and the european treaties. so poland is a country of law. there's no doubt about it, but there are some in this room who would like to use the rule of law to put pressure on unpopular prime ministers or unpopular governments. poland shall make exemplary use of european funds in accordance with the treaties and polish law. that should be the only criterion that should be used in this type of discussion. the council took its decision on the basis of precisely these types of considerations. i hope that parliament will not spoil the outcome of these difficult negotiations by making unrealistic demands. more than ever, europeans need cooperation, not idle bickering.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. with the political commitment of the heads of state and government for a european recovery fund and a multiannual budget, we can reinvest in our european future and in our european economy. the size of such a european recovery fund is unprecedented. the so-called 'next generation eu' plan consists of €390 billion in funds and €360 billion in loans. on the one hand, funds prevent the debt of the southern member states from going off the rails again, and on the other hand, loans ensure that each country pays a fair share of its own recovery. the 5 billion euro brexit fund is also necessary and good for our country belgium and the eu. but the work is not done. the multi-year budget as it stands now cuts research and development very heavily, just as we're looking for a vaccine for corona and as we're making cancer a priority. investments in research and development and the horizon europe programme are essential if the eu is to shape the future. i also strongly disagree with the large savings in health programmes, erasmus+ and defence. the eu cannot achieve strategic autonomy without full defence cooperation. the negotiations between the council and the european parliament are now beginning, as a second wave of the corona virus is coming and a hard brexit is becoming more and more likely. so time is short, but we cannot help but agree that the budget agreement can and must be improved.
in writing. the agreement reached by the european council is very hot and cold. the hot issue is the recovery plan: how it will be financed, the strong and welcome solidarity it contains, the support to the member states that need it most. the cold is the draft multiannual financial framework which gives us more than the impression that the council has compensated for the generosity and strength of the recovery plan by incomprehensible cuts in the draft european budget in key strategic sectors such as agriculture or health, for which the funds allocated are totally sufficient. it is up to us in the european parliament, in the coming weeks, to give this draft financial framework a boost and to give it as much strength and ambition as the recovery plan.
mr president, it took a crisis like this for the european union to start taking decisions that had been awaited for too long - 32 years since the last modification of the own resources system. with a 20th century income model, it is impossible to meet the challenges of the 21st century. we need more and better resources of our own for many reasons. in advance, to return the money from the recovery instrument. the alternative would be to increase national contributions, further complicating the debate on net donors and net recipients, or to reduce the union budget, i.e. less europe: unacceptable. we urgently need more own resources to give the union greater financial autonomy vis-à-vis the member states, but also to fight climate change, to promote harmonization and fiscal justice and to promote financial stability. the july council proposal is not enough. it is not enough to tax plastic waste; it is not enough to talk about the carbon border tax, the digital tax or the emission rights as a possibility: they are an imperative necessity. and, as this parliament proposes, we also need the financial transaction tax. we need, finally - and i conclude - to start building a genuine european tax system.
mr. chairman, please! it should be noted that our debate today is really about two issues that are related, but two issues. the first concerns the council's decision to launch the procedure to create the opportunity to build a new next generation eu fund. secondly, what this entails is the future of building new own income. this is important to remember, because this second debate obviously requires a different type of decision and agreement between parliament and the council, and the first debate does indeed require time. it also takes time because when we were working and discussing the budget for 2021-2027, when we had not even talked about this fund, we were planning specific expenditures. then the budget was frozen or cut, and we were told that it would be compensated by the fund. it now appears that if ratification does not proceed as planned, the fund could be seriously jeopardized. i would like to stress very clearly in this connection that if both the minister and the commissioner say that we are talking about one package, which we agree with, then in this package everything must be interrelated and everything is interdependent, which means that parliament's agreement to the multiannual budget must be linked to the creation of an opportunity for a new fund. without this fund, the budget is too small and not enough for certain actions that we have envisaged. if it's a package, then let's treat it as a package and we're ready to have this kind of conversation and start working very, very intensively.
mr president, the remedy for unpredictability lies in the ability to make and keep promises, as hannah arendt so rightly said. in july you, the commission and the council made a promise: to finance the recovery plan with new resources by making the polluters, the digital giants and the financial giants pay. now, let's do what we said. you want to make europe fair and popular, so keep that promise quickly. the alternative is to increase national contributions, to ask more of taxpayers or to cut the eu budgets even further. if you want to make the union more unpopular, this would be the way to go. but no, this is not an alternative. the effectiveness and credibility of the plan depend on it. a binding timetable for the introduction of new own resources is needed before the end of the year. finally, let us respect the treaties: the own resources are anchored there, the current ones are very outdated, so it is high time to set up new ones.
president, the corona crisis is being used to introduce a new european tax. that's what i'm worried about. it starts with a european tax on plastic waste and then there are many other forms of taxation that are in the pipeline: i would like to see a european digital tax, a european financial transaction tax, a european carbon cap tax and so on. these european taxes are actually a growth hormone for the formation of a european state - which some speakers also object to - where all power goes with money and so on. of course, it will require the approval of the various member states and also of my own: the approval of the second chamber and the first chamber. i am very curious to see the position of the cda and the vvd, because in the netherlands they say they are opposed to the european debt community, but in brussels they are happy to cooperate with it. so i ask them, where are they? and if they don't have an answer, their masks fall off.
mr president, the question you are asking us today is this: do you want a european tax, a new european tax, yes or no? personally, i say there is no quick answer to this question which is much more complex than that. the question is, in fact, who will pay for this european tax? and now, what i'm going to say is not necessarily going to please the right but the question is, is it time today to take the financial transaction tax out of the drawers? a real financial transaction tax and not a canada dry version, a coca light version, no! a real tax, which, for once, makes the big speculators pay instead of always the workers, instead of always those who make our society run. a tax that targets the financial markets and allows us to mobilise public funds and put them at the disposal of jobs, the real economy and the people. for once, instead of lying in front of the financial markets, let's tax them!
mr. president, when politicians say: i am very careful, however, because this reasoning is often used as an excuse to implement policies without considering the consequences. it's the same now. i think we can all agree on the possible introduction of new european taxes. corporations must pay their fair share of taxes, just like all citizens. but a large number of my colleagues here in parliament are convinced that new taxes, such as a financial transaction tax or a european company tax, will protect the citizens of the european union. and i can predict to you that new taxes, left or right, will eventually fall on the hard-working people, so let's just not do that. exceptional circumstances call for careful, thoughtful measures at this time.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in the debate on the union's own resources, i would like to recall that the compromise reached in this respect at the council meeting in july was based on a number of principles which we in parliament should respect. first, new sources of revenue for the union budget should not be directly charged to member states' budgets but should be linked to the benefits of the common market, and thus should primarily be a digital tax or a financial transaction tax. the non-recycled plastic charge adopted by the council only achieved consensus because it was proposed at a relatively low level and a mechanism was introduced to limit its regressivity. the commission also noted that the commission had not provided any evidence that the union industry would be able to benefit from the exemption. only if parliament supports these arrangements will they have a chance of being adopted by the parliaments of the 27 member states. unfortunately, the parliament's report departs from them in many places.
mr president, by agreeing to a eur 750 billion package, eu leaders have crossed the rubicon. yet, just as caesar’s success was far from guaranteed, this package alone might not bring us the recovery that we wish and the sustainability that we need. we may run out of steam before we reach our destination, and without proper own resources we will run out of steam. to avoid cutting back on future eu spending, the eu should have income to repay its debts, and this income should derive from areas where european action is of added value. to make polluters pay a fair price, to make digital companies and large corporates pay a fair share, we need european action including a common consolidated corporate tax base, and by asking for this now, the european parliament is paving the way for a real success.
mr president, an unprecedented crisis calls for unprecedented measures. that is why we are negotiating a budget with an ambitious recovery package. through low interest rates and the high creditworthiness of the european commission, we will borrow cheaply to invest in our european economy. but the reimbursement of the recovery plan must be timely and correct. we therefore call for fair own resources and a binding timetable. importers of cheap steel, for example, that do not respect our environmental standards will be contributing to the recovery through a carbon levy. digital multinationals, which pay little tax here and make a profit in the european single market, will also have to contribute to our recovery. this european recovery plan is a historic opportunity which we must seize. if the european union succeeds in reviving the economy, we can win the confidence of the citizens. but if we fail to repay, each country will be left to fend for itself, and we must prevent this at all costs.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i invite you to support this text to the end because it is essential that all sectors of the economy including the maritime sector contribute and participate today in the common effort to complete the transition to achieve the goal of climate neutrality in the european union by 2050. i would remind you that shipping is currently the only sector not specifically targeted by a co2 reduction target or specific mitigation measures. if nothing changes, global emissions from the shipping sector are expected to increase by 50% to 250% by 2050. i therefore urge you to vote: for the inclusion of the maritime sector in the co2 emission trading scheme (cets); for the introduction of eu-level energy efficiency standards for ships; the commission is also proposing to regulate the access of the most polluting ships to eu ports and to make it possible to force moored ships to use electricity from the dock. i also say that an ocean fund should be created from the revenue generated. thank you .
mr president, turkey is an important strategic partner for the eu, both economically and geopolitically, but that does not negate its many misdemeanours: backsliding democracy and human rights; devastating actions in syria and libya; disregard of international law with regard to greece and cyprus; lack of respect for christian communities. and this is not the first, second, third or even fourth time we’ve had this exact same debate in this parliament. turkey has not presented itself as a worthy candidate country for years. we need a fundamental strategic rethink of our relationship. it’s time the eu accepts that at best we can only have a business relationship with turkey. accession negotiations should be stopped and the budget allocation also for this process should be put to better use. we need the money for other things. trying to turn erdoğan into a reliable and cooperative partner is like trying to flog a dead horse. i don’t want to do that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about erdogan's actions, we are sadly accustomed to using harsh terms. however, what is happening in the eastern mediterranean is far beyond any limits, with ankara now directly threatening athens after months and months of illegal drilling and agreements contrary to international law, such as the memorandum of understanding with libya on the delimitation of maritime jurisdictions. let erdogan be clear about one thing: when he threatens greece or cyprus, he is not simply threatening his neighbours, with brussels as a mediator. it is threatening the whole european union. and we as europe must react unitedly, by keeping a channel of dialogue open, by working for de-escalation, of course, but the extraordinary european council next week must send a strong signal, with a package of sanctions, but also with an embargo on the sale of arms to a country which, in addition to openly violating international law and jeopardising relations within nato itself, continues to regress in respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy. it is time for europe to pursue its own policy in the mediterranean without being crushed by blackmail from autocrats like president erdogan.
mr president, we should not need to remind ourselves that greek and cypriot borders are european borders – european union borders. when russia invaded georgia, the donbass in ukraine, and crimea, all the european union reacted because russia was not respecting international law or international borders. now that we have this constant bullying at our own european borders, are we going to be silent? are we going to be inactive? aren’t we going to do something? turkey is not a third country. it has a customs union. it is a candidate country and a member of nato, and so it has obligations that other countries don’t have. we therefore have to be firm and clear. it’s european borders that are at stake. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, we have a huge responsibility which comes from the awareness that it is not at all true that turkey cannot be stopped. the problem is that europe is not stopping it: in both syria and libya, russia has taken on the de facto task of carrying out this task. so what's our emergency? we must return to the defence of the mediterranean as europeans, and today the threat is from turkey. how can we achieve this? a proposal could be the establishment of a special envoy of the european union for the eastern mediterranean, precisely with the aim, on the one hand, of settling legal disputes on the law of the sea and, on the other, of guaranteeing a peaceful europe, because turkey's peace towards us, and therefore towards greece and cyprus in particular, is not a provocation: the european parliament has been the victim of a series of attacks on the european parliament, and it is an attack on what we call the neo-ottoman strategy, whose victim is the greek, latin and christian history of europe.
mr president, there is another episode of a chronic crisis in the eastern mediterranean, which has only been aggravated by erdoğan's hegemonic ambitions to fill the void left by the absence of america and the short-circuited nato, at least until the european union has matured in its foreign policy, finally assuming a leading role in the wider mediterranean region and perhaps, mr president, entrusting a european special representative for the eastern mediterranean with the task of consulting turkey at all levels in favour of a peaceful coexistence with the european union. let me emphasize the obvious here: respect for international law and the sovereign rights of greece and cyprus are non-negotiable and are not on anyone's table. europe must therefore cut off erdoğan's neo-ottoman geopolitical appetites for conquest 'because greece and cyprus are europe', stop using double standards, depending on the economic and military interests of some member states, and finally acquire a strong and long-term strategy, from libya to syria, on our wider borders.
president. - at the beginning of march, tens of thousands of migrants, mainly young men of military age, laid siege to the greek border. sultan erdogan used mass migration as a blackmail tool to extract more money for his regime. there was hardly any reaction. erdogan has since learned how weak and indecisive the european union is. today, his regime is violating the territorial waters and airspace of greece. once again, there is hesitation to take action. appeasement doesn't work with this kind of leader. we must bring the erdogan regime to its knees or we will remain at the mercy of turkish blackmail and aggression. so stop the billions for turkey. abolish the customs union and announce economic sanctions. and most of all: the european union must finally stop its accession talks, because turkey is not and will never be part of europe geographically, religiously, culturally and historically.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, before the pandemic crisis we saw in lebanon many demonstrations by young people, young people who were fighting against corruption, who were fighting against the economic crisis that has affected them, against poverty, against unemployment. but in reality, the pandemic crisis has also been accompanied by a huge explosion, and these young people are in need of our support now. not only the young lebanese, but also so many refugees who were able to settle there following the enormous generosity of the lebanese people. in this sense, i believe that the european union cannot escape this call, this call to support the lebanese population, whether through the instruments it already has, the neighbourhood trust fund, or unrwa, but to respond to the population and the refugees, more than a million syrian refugees, about half a million palestinian refugees. this is also the time to avoid temptation, to have no political leverage, to have no meddling, to have no geopolitical games. european solidarity must be the answer to lebanese generosity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express my solidarity and closeness to our lebanese friends: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. i wish the new prime minister, mustapha adib, good luck in forming the new government and i take this opportunity to send a warning to all the leaders participating in the negotiations: in the face of extraordinary circumstances, it takes a sense of responsibility and extraordinary courage. put aside political differences and personal interests: we need a determined government that will face a humanitarian emergency and fight, without a neighborhood, corruption and cronyism. the reforms are necessary and urgent but they must be shared and supported from below, involving in particular those young people who have been in the squares for months, loudly demanding a new, modern, transparent and above all free lebanon. without peace and social justice in lebanon, there will never be peace and social justice in the entire middle east.
mr president, the explosion in beirut's port, which caused hundreds of deaths, thousands of injuries, more than 300,000 homeless people and the complete destruction of the city's districts, is adding to the chaos that led millions of lebanese, already in october 2019, to express their anger against an inefficient and corrupt political system. the lebanese people are demanding change: a religiously neutral country, effective and progressive institutions... above all, they want to turn the page on corruption. as we know, lebanon has been the terrain of influence for the regional powers and their allies since its independence. our duty as europeans is to stand by the lebanese. we are facing a humanitarian emergency and we must ensure that europe's resources go directly to the people. we see the urgency of political and economic reconstruction: helping civil society to embrace the reforms demanded by the imf today will give this country the opportunity to return to the economic and political scene and to be able to release €11 billion in aid. this civil society knows what it wants, we have to work with it.
mr president, lebanon is a resilient country that has endured many challenges; but after the tragic explosion in beirut’s harbour, lebanon is on the brink of disaster. the lebanese people are sick and tired of having to be resilient, and i understand them. in this dire situation, the first priority must be to form an impartial government that is able to tackle the immediate crisis. i call upon europe to support, in any way possible, the formation of such a government. decades of corruption must come to an end. the lebanese people deserve leaders who solve problems, not cause them. they deserve leaders who inspire hope, not despair. these leaders exist. i have met them. they are young, capable and visionary. they fight for social justice, human rights and sustainability. many of them are women who struggle in the face of patriarchal elites. we have to support them. europe needs to support them.
mr president, mr high representative, the lebanese people are a friendly people, they are our brothers. in the present situation we must support them, of course, through our declarations, but even more so by accompanying them in the various reforms that are so necessary: political reform, on the one hand, but also disarmament, particularly of the militias, in accordance with un security council resolution 1599, or, of course, the provision of the budgetary support necessary to rebuild the country. the lebanese are wounded, but they are standing. i ask that we can send a european parliament delegation quickly - i have already written to that effect - to be accompanied by the high representative to create, further establish and further build these important links between europe and the lebanese people and to accompany these necessary reforms in support of the lebanese people.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, many eu citizens craved holidays this summer and some did go on holidays, to spain for instance. after their holidays, belgian tourists returning from spain faced 14 days of quarantine. dutch tourists only faced 10 days, and french (tourists) zero. for us belgians, spain is a red zone in its entirety, but not so for the french authorities. we cannot explain these diverging practices to our citizens. it creates an idea of arbitrariness amongst our citizens, while it is very important that everyone keeps following the guidelines. it does not make sense from a health perspective. all eu citizens are equal, also in the eyes of the virus. a dutch person who visits a spanish village faces the same risk of infection as a greek, swedish or slovakian person who went to the same village. it also does not make sense from an internal market perspective. it creates uncertainties for businesses and cross-border workers if member states apply different quarantine lengths or definitions of essential travel. luckily, the commission indeed proposed earlier this month that member states would use common criteria and thresholds to base their travel restrictions on. as a parliament we should support this. member states should follow the ecdc’s recommendations and agree on common rules for returning travellers, identical colour coding and common criteria. i hope that all member states can agree on a common viewpoint on this matter in the interest of all eu citizens. (applause)
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, we have rightly stressed that public health is a member state competence, and in our case even a state competence. and i want to keep it that way. the policy, the choices, the funding must remain there. the eu does not have harmonisation powers, as is stated in the treaty. where can the eu add value? well, first by coordinating the color codes: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the products. we have seen that the same zone is coloured red in france and orange in belgium. those codes also mean the same thing. secondly, to ensure the maximum possible freedom of movement for persons and goods. the european union is a great example of this. thirdly, it is also good that the commission is taking the lead in the purchase of vaccine programmes. i want reliable information on that: about the test, the results, the progress. but i also ask the commission to be transparent about the purchase contracts with the farm giants, to be transparent about the negotiating teams. i have asked the commissioner for information on this in the context of transparency of administration. i'm waiting for the answer to that. the commission asks for transparency, often shows transparency. well, show that you have nothing to hide: practice what you preach.
mr president, covid— 19 is still omnipresent in our daily lives, but also in the political debates. in the eu, we tend to focus a lot on economic recovery, but we must not forget that the health of every european citizen is even more important. european citizens worry about the future, about their health, about their jobs, about the climate, and about their future. this is the moment when we as europe have to show that we are ready to help them, and that we’re on their side, step by step. how will we reassure people that there will be an affordable vaccine for all of us who need it? how will we convince people that we will coordinate member states’ policies better during the next health crisis? the only way to show people we mean it is to maintain budgets that we set aside for eu for health and horizon europe. these flagship programmes are crucial for the next generation of europe and we will fight for them. but the most important call that i want to strengthen is of course to redirect investments towards a green economy. innovative companies are showing the way forward to a more circular economy and sustainable product design, as well as a socially just transition. let’s keep our targets sufficiently high. let’s listen to what the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) decided last week. we need at least 60% or 65% to be ambitious. the more we reduce now, the more relaxed we will be towards 2050.
president, even with the pandemic, we need to focus more than ever on sustainable prosperity, on job creation, and i heard good things in your speech: the commission is therefore proposing to give greater attention to industrial policy, artificial intelligence and digitalisation, but please do much more to deepen the internal market, create a capital market for our small and mediumsized enterprises. you are also right to portray the eu as the global player on trade and on stability. i agree with you completely on that point. but i would like to see a little more assertiveness when it comes to human rights. we cannot continue to import products made in china with forced labour. let us be very consistent on that point too. let us also oppose dumping and excessive state subsidies. third, much more budget for innovation, the key to recovery, the key to the green deal as well. it's good that hydrogen is on the radar, but don't forget we'll have to invest in substitutes for rare materials. we're way too fragile there, so increase that budget for innovation. finally, a humane asylum policy, but one that protects our external borders and does not allow illegal immigrants to enter. this is what people are asking. this is what will create confidence in the union.
mr president, i think we have done a good job here today of listening to each other, of listening to the differences that clearly exist, but also of listening to all that unites us - which is a lot - and we have heard complaints, but we have also heard proposals. by the way, mrs von der leyen, i was wondering if you could tell me what you're doing. if i were you, i would be very proud to hear the criticism you have received from the far right in this plenary session, because it shows very clearly your commitment to building a bigger and better europe. i have one thing very clear: europe will be social and fair or it will not be. europe will be green and sustainable or it will not be. europe will be feminist or it will not be. because those are the values that unite us as a project: equality, justice, tolerance, solidarity... and these are also the values which will make the survival of the european project possible. let's make this moment of crisis an opportunity too. and let us be able to understand that it is time to stand up to the most vulnerable and to call for an effort - of course also from those who have the most - to be able to sustain the european social model, to be able to make progress in the fight against climate change, to be able to tackle the european social pillar. that is our task at the moment and we must be aware that there are many people today who are having a very difficult time, with fears, uncertainties and anxieties, and who have only one thing in common, the hope that europe will respond to their problems. it is therefore our responsibility, but above all our obligation.
mr president, madam president, in every debate i hear colleagues explaining to us that they are not anti-european, but that the only europe that would work would be a sum of states with minimal cooperation. this is the europe, ladies and gentlemen, we had at the beginning of the health crisis: the europe of each for himself, of each at home, of retreat and minimal cooperation. i don't think the balance sheet was very satisfactory. however, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear: the failure of this europe of retreat has not magically restored confidence in the integrated europe you are proposing. but today, i join you, there is a historic opportunity for europe to prove that it can be an ambition and a solution for the future, not a utopia of the past. you made a very voluntarist speech, which i welcome. you have made a speech with many ambitions, many of which are in line with those of our group. our role now is to implement this very ambitious road map. be careful, the task will not be easy. our citizens expect concrete, visible, rapid action that addresses their concerns, not just good intentions. we will therefore first have to ensure that budgets are in place to achieve these ambitions in terms of solidarity and strategic autonomy. let me express some doubts about the current forecasts, which are very much a matter for the member states. i am thinking in particular of the defence, which unfortunately has not been discussed much today. i am also thinking of agriculture, which has not been much addressed other than by the green pact for europe, but which is the foundation of our food self-sufficiency and something we must not sacrifice. madam president, we must work today to implement this road map quickly and we must ensure that the budgets are followed and, i must conclude, that we will not make a policy that is out of touch with reality. we are in an institutional bubble, including ourselves as members of parliament, which is sometimes far removed from the concerns of our fellow citizens. we must ensure that the peoples of these institutions are brought closer together.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the pandemic, and the european union's response to its economic consequences, represents a historic opportunity to restore hope and enthusiasm to our citizens. that is why we need a courageous response based on adequate budgetary means and through new resources. the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. as socialists, we stress the need for a european strategy against poverty, including the child guarantee, a framework directive on the minimum wage and a decision on own resources and european taxation, to prevent the burden of tax revenue from falling on the income of workers. we are alarmed by the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states, where judicial independence and the protection of human rights are in danger. that is why we have asked the council to adopt a formal decision immediately to negotiate a european rule of law mechanism.
in writing. to my surprise, there was a foreign policy part of the speech that i particularly liked. it would be difficult for the president of the commission to add anything or to correct his attitude in any way. he spoke as if he were an estonian, latvian, or lithuanian. our values and our sense of security were clearly expressed by ursula von der leyen. if it did, it would have expected more in relation to nord stream 2. now, he was basically saying that it takes more than one pipeline to change russia. one pipeline is not going to change russia. whether he supports the completion of the pipeline remains to be seen. of course, i was particularly interested in the digital dimension and it was a strong message. ursula von der leyen stressed the need to create a common digital identity for the european union. yes, we have a mechanism for the cross-border recognition of digital identities used in the member states, but unfortunately it has not been widely used and there is not much to do with estonian digital identities elsewhere in europe. i hope that the very strong statement of the president of the european commission will be followed by concrete action. the president's approach to the data economy and artificial intelligence was no different from that of the previous commission. strangely, the president did not mention the biggest digital initiative announced by this commission - the digital services act.
in writing. madam president of the european commission, you sometimes say nice things. when you talk about it, you almost want to believe it. but unfortunately, between the lines, the reality is less beautiful. i will give two examples. first, the workers. the ones who have kept our society running during the crisis. the european union is a global player in the world economy. what concrete perspective are you giving them? what job guarantee ? what salary guarantee ? you're talking about wage dumping. i'm all right. but you offer no concrete way of ending social dumping. no, your first priority is the market and the market. and soon, the return to austerity. a second example. in april, you promised that the covid-19 vaccine would be our universal commons. other so you promised us that the vaccine would not be the private property of a large pharmaceutical multinational. today, while you are in the middle of negotiations with the multinationals, you do not repeat it. don't you dare to speak? or did you lie to us in april?
in writing. the messages of the president of the european commission at today's state of the union were very clear and unequivocal. the crippled world left behind by the covid-19 pandemic needs to be put back on its feet as soon as possible. this is why we need decisive action from europe. von der leyen is promising the europeans protection, stability and opportunity. and he has my full support. i welcome the construction of the health union, one of the most important political projects in post-pandemic europe. the virus cannot be stopped at the border. it is high time that the union was given more powers in the field of health policy. i support the president's initiative to strengthen the key eu agencies and to create a new one for biomedicine, research and development. i also welcome the announcement of a binding mechanism to set up a european minimum wage and the european commission's commitment to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030, although i would like an even more ambitious plan myself. we need to further transform, digitise and green our economies and europe to be truly future-ready. at the same time, we must protect the eu's strategic interest and common core values. i therefore particularly welcome von der leyen's initiative to extend the european criminal code to prohibit hatred and all forms of discrimination and to protect the most vulnerable.
in writing. i think that commission president von der leyen has the right priorities: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. work must pay, which makes a european framework for minimum wages a real must. together with a strong network of temporary unemployment, we are building a genuine social union. the strong emphasis on collective bargaining is crucial in this respect. the commission will also be supporting the implementation of the new eu-wide climate change strategy, which will be implemented by the member states in the context of the eu-wide climate change strategy. we must work towards a strong european health union. this will enable us to act more effectively in the next crisis. the re-examination of the distribution of healthcare responsibilities will also undoubtedly be a topic of discussion in the discussions on the future of europe. i also welcome the new european agency for biomedical research and the strengthened role for the european centre for disease prevention and control and the european medicines agency. a first major task for the european union is the development and deployment of a vaccine. by working together to develop a safe vaccine that is accessible to everyone, we can save lives. now we must all turn this ambitious 'state of the union' into action!
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner johansson, ladies and gentlemen, one in five children is said to be a victim of sexual violence, and in almost 80% of cases the child knows the perpetrator. so he's often victimized by people he trusts. the fight against sexual abuse is a top priority and we must act together. however, my speech is specifically addressed to the 23 member states that are not implementing the 2011 directive, and the absence of council representatives today makes me wonder: how many cases of abuse could have been avoided over the years and how many lives will be ruined before member states actually implement the legislation? there is a blind spot in the actions currently and it is prevention: educating and raising awareness of children and their surroundings about this type of violence, the risks and threats related to the online presence; the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and violence. identify and accompany victims. measures which are already provided for in european law and yet not implemented. how effective will a new strategy be if member states do not put the necessary effort into it? public spending must be used to strengthen our under-equipped and under-staffed child protection, police and justice services. to fulfil the difficult tasks assigned to them requires a fundamental review of the public resources invested. in the face of these serious shortcomings, it is a smokescreen to think that technological solutions will compensate for years of chronic underinvestment in the aforementioned services. our efforts must focus on the women and men on the ground who protect children, investigate, arrest and prosecute pedophiles. we want actions, we want means, not just good intentions.
mr president, the measure of a society is how it protects the most vulnerable. right now, europe is letting its children down. interpol, europol, the internet watch foundation and many others have highlighted the shocking and vast extent of the sexual abuse of children online in europe. our aims are clear: that more victims need to be identified and protected that more criminals need to be brought to justice and that we will do all we can to create a world free from child sexual exploitation. to achieve this, the eu needs to lead the world on creating effective partnerships between governments, industry, law enforcement and ngos. the eu must give the necessary political will, expertise and resources needed to end this horrific pattern of criminality once and for all, and also in how we show children on television and in the media.
author. – madam president, years ago i was honoured to interview dr mukwege for a book i wrote on women’s rights. he inspired me with his simple belief that we all have a duty to do the right thing. he is not a man who thinks women’s rights is an issue for women. he just jumps in and fights. he said, ‘i became a feminist because, in the face of the atrocity i witnessed, i had a choice: to go away or to act. i couldn’t just leave’. the eu must do all it can to protect the points of light that shine through darkness. for the many thousands of victims of sexual violence in the congo, dr mukwege is that light. we must call for a deep and impartial investigation into the threats made against him, and the eu must urge the congolese authorities to adopt the draft law which protects human rights defenders and installs transitional justice. by defending dr mukwege’s life, we also defend the lives and dignity of those that every day rely upon his bravery. we must do all we can to help him continue to fight for the change he has spent a lifetime trying to achieve: the delivery of justice, truth and the empowerment of women.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we want to link certain rights of member states to respect for democracy. that sounds noble, of course, but the secret agenda is this: anyone who doesn't bow to the progressive, globalist, multicultural agenda of the unelected commissioners and co will be caught. poland, hungary and other resistant countries must be punished for not following the lead. the only problem is the eu nomenclature. it has no means of punishing the member states. the commission is therefore proposing an amendment to the treaty of the union to introduce a sanctions mechanism. unanimous decisions would no longer be necessary. the countries which still have the courage to oppose the commission and its allies would be forced by this new dictate to abandon their defence. in other words, those who oppose mass immigration, those who do not join the gender madness, those who, according to the commission, make a pluralistic press impossible, those who allegedly threaten the independence of the judiciary, will feel the vengeance, the financial vengeance of the commission and of the commission itself. this, ladies and gentlemen, is not the europe of sovereign nations that we are advocating, that the id group is advocating. this is more of a developing eussr soft dictatorship.
madam president, the deeper our challenges, the more our values matter. times of crisis can erode freedom and fairness. as we all know, no country is immune to this. protecting human rights, promoting free speech and free media, passing legislation that increases freedom and does not discriminate, and ensuring court systems that do not allow political interference or bias – this is the only true path to stability and prosperity. the rule of law is not the enemy of great government – the belief that our values are extinguishable is! the rule of law was not designed to protect governments and elites, but to protect people. for those that seek to stray from our shared values, i hope they reach the conclusion that by respecting democracy and the rule of law, there is much to be gained and far less to lose.
is an eu mechanism, as proposed here, the solution, mr president? i'm afraid not firstly, we need a clear objective measure by which we can measure or assess the situation in the various member states, and there is none at the moment. and whether you can develop it at all is a very open question. the proposal will certainly lead to a lot of infighting and perhaps even to a hexit, a pexit or a spexit. secondly, such a mechanism only works well if member states embrace and endorse the method used. and if it does not, it will only create more administrative clutter at high cost, without achieving any goal. it's a waste of money, especially now. in short, with respect to all the good intentions and the great work of fabricating something which promotes a positive development of democracy and the rule of law, i ask all members to throw this report into the trash for the time being because it would do more harm than good. we are advocating a decentralized approach. unfortunately, i don't have time to go into this. finally, i would point out that the eu itself is not very democratic. let's get to that first.
president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, ursula von der leyen, in her state of the union, came to the heart of the matter and i quote: the rule of law protects people from the rule of law. we can hardly underestimate the importance of this, because without independent judges and journalists, there is no justice. yet, pressures on journalists are increasing, and influence on judges is growing. our response as the european parliament must be clear, because the article 7 procedures are stuck and the budget proposal to make eu funds conditional on respect for the rule of law is being watered down every week. we therefore call for a structural and objective evaluation of the rule of law with tangible consequences for offenders. until we untie this knot, all discussions about respect for the rule of law will sound hollow.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, madam secretary of state, mr commissioner, as we know this 2021 budget is particularly important as it is, by definition, the first of the next multiannual financial framework. the deadlines for decision-making, as pierre larrouturou has just mentioned, are extremely tight and the european parliament does not have to take responsibility for this state of affairs. we stopped our position almost two years ago, in november 2018. it was not until 21 july of this year that the council took a position in favour of european solidarity. the next step is to make this solidarity a reality by 2021 by allocating a sufficient budget to ensure the functioning of structural reforms and the effectiveness of the policies pursued by the union. we cannot disappoint our citizens who are hit by an unprecedented double health and economic crisis with discounted european programmes. we need an ambitious 2021 budget, one that is able to support sustainable and resilient economies and that sets the path for european sovereignty in health, digital, industrial and security. the council has chosen an arithmetical approach to the amounts proposed by the commission for 2021 for several programmes based on the european council's position and without giving any real priorities. the cuts in the eu's flagship programmes that are clearly oriented towards the future, such as the climate transition, digital, health or research, are already undermining the very foundations of this recovery. citizens expect the european union to offer them a way out of the crisis with collective and solidary projects, and only political will will make it possible to reach an ambitious, fair and balanced agreement on the next multiannual financial framework. we very much hope that such an agreement will be reached before the end of october, so that the commission can send us its letter of amendment as soon as possible, which will update its position on the 2021 budget. parliament has not chosen to work under the time pressure imposed on us by the council. we urge it to review its position as soon as possible to allow us to adjust ours before the start of the conciliation on 17 november and for 21 days of conciliation in a constructive, open spirit, with frank and honest exchanges so that we can meet the legitimate expectations of european citizens. we must be able to obtain as soon as possible the stabilized financial amounts which will enable us to take european decisions that will bring sustainable investment and human cooperation to the service of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this european directive on the balance between men and women on boards of directors is probably one of the most aberrant documents i have ever read. you explain that quotas should be imposed on companies because male-dominated boards are much more likely to be characterised by narrow conformity. i do not have time to discuss the form here, the absurd principle of quotas. but i'll get back to you on that. you said conformity has a gender. openness, intelligence, empathy, and so on would have a gender. well, when it comes to discriminatory stereotypes, you're right there! ladies and gentlemen, the european economy is collapsing, the world is becoming more and more dangerous, the large publicly traded companies are deceiving us, relocating, putting pressure on governments, dumping taxes, social and environmental costs and putting thousands of people, men and women, out of work. and all you care about is the gender of the decision-makers on the board of directors... i do not see any more anti-conformism, or any success, in the globalist austerity policies imposed by mrs von der leyen or mrs merkel. you can see that gender diversity does not automatically lead to a diversity of ideas.
mr president, it is beyond doubt that diversity of company boards is an asset, because diversity means that the board members have different views, different backgrounds, different experiences. so, the question then is why was diversity of company boards then doing better than it is today? i believe that one problem is hidden criteria for the selection of board members, where still the stereotype is a certain type of white man, and this should now be broken somehow. we have seen, for instance, in finland, which has so far chosen the way of self-regulation, that you come to a certain degree: you can have 29% of women on listed company boards, but you won’t get that further with self-regulation. i believe that we should not be satisfied with that low number, and that’s why we need this european regulation. i also very much believe that, because women are barely represented in those committees in companies which actually choose board members, this has to be corrected. in finland, only 14% are women on this kind of body in companies.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the post-corona era it is of the utmost importance that we keep women on board, both literally and figuratively. figuratively, because it was women who were predominantly on the front lines of fighting the virus, but also literally bringing it on board, by giving women a vote on the boards of publicly traded companies. in 2020, women are still underrepresented. only three out of ten board members are women. in some member states, this is less than one in ten. and only 7.5% of ceos are women. countries like france and belgium show that good legislation does make a difference. more women on the board means a boost, an enrichment of companies. this is the result of numerous studies by the ilo and the oecd. this talent, this source of expertise and creativity, we must tap into now. there is an urgent need for a different corporate culture, where women and men take the lead together. we must strive for a society where quotas are not necessary and equal representation is a given. but until that happens, we need clear legislation. it is therefore time for the member states to come together in the council, to take the matter out of the freezer and to make the eu a point for gender equality, including in the executive boards.
we are in favour of the council's economic conclusions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. well , i 'm not . to protect without protectionism. finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are also seeing a major effort to digitize, something we are lagging behind globally. it is good, commissioner, that 20% of the recovery plan is going to digitisation. but if charles michel had been here, i would have said to him: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. finally, make a budget for the 21st century. the world is not waiting for us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you're serious about fighting the climate crisis, you can't ignore the role of forests. in fact, existing or newly planted forests can make a significant contribution to the capture and sequestration of co2. but to do that, we have to stop logging, because that leads to drying, to water loss, to humus loss, and by the way, it takes the forest 80 to 100 years to recover all that co2. we must stop destroying the soil with the heaviest harvesters. soil erosion, soil compaction, soil loss are the consequences of these interventions. we need to transform our monoculture plantations in europe into mixed forests that are climate-friendly and also able to withstand the challenges of climate change. only natural forestry can do this, can ensure a water supply, can ensure the highest yield of timber, can ensure the best quality of timber, and, by the way, ensures biodiversity and maximum co2 storage. our foresters, like myself, know how to do this. it is time for industry to follow suit. i 'm not going to vote for you . (the president cut the speaker off)
i thank you very much, mr waitz. mr waitz, the microphone is no longer on. (interruption of the debate) yes, but the interpreters can't hear you, and then the next generation won't know what you have to say about important things. it would be good if everyone would stick to the list of speakers. everyone has something important to say; you can express it all in a minute.
mr president, it has obviously not been easy to find a good balance in this report. i think this debate shows it. and from the s&d group, our perspective is that there certainly are aspects that could have been better included in the process. we need to take good care of our forests. there is no doubt about it. they are one of our green lungs. i’m from a country which has a large and thriving forest myself, and for me a good day is a day when i walk in the forest with my dog or spend time there enjoying the biodiversity. but that being said, i also believe in a sustainable forest management that it’s possible to combine, and i’m convinced that the objectives of forest protection, strengthening biodiversity and wood protection can actually be challenges that together go as a big opportunity for our member states and also for the climate and climate policy in the eu. so i look forward to seeing the commission’s proposal taking that into account.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur, mr sarvamaa, for the good work he has done. forests and forest resources are of great environmental, economic and social importance. in spain, galicia accounts for more than half of the total wood harvest in the country. the forestry sector is strategic for my region, galicia, as i said. we must work towards sustainable and multifunctional forests and woodlands, which are a source of natural and economic wealth. in galicia we are committed to a management of forest resources based on the bio-economy. in this respect, i was pleased to see that mr sarvamaa's report is in line with this and also advocates the strengthening of sustainable forest management. in addition, forests are also a way to boost the economic reactivation needed after the covid-19 pandemic; for example, the xunta de galicia is evaluating the creation of a center for the manufacture of textile fibers, from wood, within the framework of the circular economy. another very relevant issue is the prevention of forest fires, a terrible threat that spain and other southern countries face every summer and which is aggravated by climate change. fires know no boundaries. within the european union, as proposed in the report we are now discussing, there is a need to allocate more funding and develop greater cooperation and joint action capacity to combat forest fires. it is important that the european commission incorporates this element into the forestry strategy it is preparing.
mr president, forests and wooded areas currently cover 43% of the union's surface. they are true cleaners, removing 10% of all greenhouse gases emitted in europe. but in recent years there has been a marked increase in the cutting and deforestation of forests. it is therefore crucial that we do everything we can to balance the demand for wood with the need to preserve these environmentally vital ecosystems. we need effective, coherent and harmonised management of our forestry heritage at european level. the commission's proposal will therefore have to focus on the three pillars of economic sustainability, societal sustainability and, of course, environmental sustainability. the challenges are many: stepping up the fight against illegal logging, promoting the circular bioeconomy, agroforestry and building resilience to natural disasters. it is our responsibility to recognise the value and importance of forests to society and to develop effective policies to ensure that this value is protected, maintained and enhanced.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. 285,000 hectares of forest are currently destroyed in germany. the effects of climate change: bark beetles, drought, new fungal diseases. the forest has long since ceased to be a store of co2. i must say that this report does not meet the new challenges. the emphasis is still on use. yeah, nothing against a sensible use. but can we in europe be responsible for the burning of wood in power stations so that member states can improve their carbon footprints? we can't accept that anymore. that is why we must clearly reject it in the future. we must put our forests under increased protection. we point the finger at brazil, but in europe we are not even able to protect the carpathians, to protect the fsm areas. in germany, a motorway, the a 49, is being built through ffh areas. we can't accept that anymore. so we have to build a new forest, natural forests, away from the spruce, pine and eucalyptus plantations. and that includes changing hunting laws so that trophy hunting doesn't eat away at the forest in some areas.
mr president, although responsibility for forests and forestry lies entirely with the member states, we are well aware that the european union, through its policies, has a fundamental influence on the quality of forests. with europe facing desertification, forest destruction from drought, pests, fires and other impacts of climate change, we must choose what is more important to us - the health and long-term impact of a diverse forestry mix or the short-term economic benefits of intensive forest management and the expansion of forest cultivation for biomass. i think if we want forests to remain our lungs, to produce oxygen, to absorb at least 10 percent of the greenhouse gases we produce, to retain water, and to retain a number of other functions, including the production function that is talked about a lot here and that i don't appreciate, then we need to put the protection of forests first today. i expect the commission to adopt a number of new measures, including a revision of the renewable energy directive. i also think it's worth considering whether it's a good idea to replace all the disposable items that used to be made of plastic with wood on a massive scale, whether there's a better solution to reducing consumption than increasing it in the form of wood products. i personally have a great deal of respect for the work that my colleague sarvamaa has done, but still, the emphasis on environmental protection and forest protection... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i am in favour - and i want to make this very clear in my speech - of an ambitious european forestry strategy which will be translated into future regulations at european level so that the national management of forestry policy today can gradually give way to european management. but now this policy is national competence. we are also facing the great fight against climate change and we must take account of our climate commitments made at the paris summit and the proposals of the european green deal. that is why this resolution states that the forestry strategy must be an important pillar within this green deal. i think it is a balanced proposal which takes into account important aspects such as the need to preserve and promote biodiversity and the importance of reforestation. that is why i am calling for a vote in favour of this proposal and against amendments nos 1 and 2.
mr. president, please! first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr sarvamay. it is clear that it comes from finland, which knows how to manage forests, has a lot of forests, so this report is also comprehensive and also coordinated with the many stakeholders we have worked with in the preparation of this report. forests have a multi-purpose function. just as sustainable development is made up of environmental, economic and social components, forest management is made up of all these components. forests also play an important role in the green deal, our new development paradigm, and it is right to highlight this protective function, these important areas of biodiversity, water storage, firefighting and reptile control. but we certainly need to talk about, in addition to the carbon sink, the economic use of forests, what farmers can actually do with forests, and what we can do with research to upgrade the bioeconomy, where forestry plays an important role. i am glad that we slovenians can be proud of our sustainable development of forest management, as mr sarvamaa also recognised in his report. farmers are the ones who will continue to ensure the sustainable development of forestry, and it is right to support it through the common agricultural policy and the rural development programme, while also enabling good management where forests are protected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the text as voted by the committee on agriculture is a good compromise, that it is going in the right direction, that is to say, in the direction of outlining the commitment we must make in the coming years to defend our forestry heritage, taking account of course of the environmental aspects, which are fundamental, but also of the economic and social aspects which are linked to it. we are talking about an important strategy - it has been emphasized by all my colleagues - which has already led to important results in recent years. it has been said: 43% of the territory is covered by forests, which provide jobs for more than three million people: that is why it is important to have an ambitious, coordinated and coherent strategy at european level. i think that this text is going in the right direction.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the eu forest strategy post-2020 can best achieve a balanced representation of the three pillars of sustainability through sustainable forest management. i am pleased that this report confirms the importance of this. hungary has almost doubled its forest area in the last century. we're aiming to have 27 percent of the world's forest cover by 2030. this is an important part of the hungarian climate and nature action plan. i would also like to emphasise that efforts to halt the decline of biodiversity are welcome. however, this can be done most effectively within the framework of sustainable forest management, and it is regrettable that the publication of the biodiversity strategy preceded the forestry strategy. this was a mistake on the part of the european commission, in my opinion. this was supposed to happen in parallel, in a coordinated way. the eu's biodiversity strategy is a key instrument for achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. however, in the absence of a preliminary assessment, it is likely that these will not achieve the expected effect and therefore comprehensive impact assessments are required. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental and climate action programmes, including the implementation of the eu's climate action strategy. this is a matter of great concern. this is why i think it is very important that the principles of sustainable forest management are the guiding principles in both strategies.
mr president, european forests absorb 10% of the carbon emissions of the european union. forests and the forestry sector have the potential to make an increasing contribution to combating climate change and to achieving the objectives of the european green deal for a climate-neutral economy. healthy forests and resilient ecosystems have natural protective functions to adapt to climate change. that is why we must first of all take care of the ecological state of forests, combat illegal and naked logging, promote forestry practices and preserve natural, old and age-old forests, which are an irreplaceable source of biodiversity. forests play an important socioeconomic role in rural and least populated areas of the european union, providing jobs and livelihoods for local people (including ecotourism, mushroom and berry gathering, beekeeping). in order to achieve the higher environmental objectives of the new cap, it is important to continue supporting the forestry sector and the development of the bioeconomy, to apply agroforestry practices and to incentivise foresters to protect, grow and manage forests in a sustainable way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we must stop dealing with the three main issues of the forest. first, the economic issue which is decisive for three million people, families, in europe. secondly, the environmental and climate challenge, of course, to protect biodiversity, but also to ensure that the whole forest can participate in the fight against global warming by storing co2 and also to prepare our forest in terms of planting so that this forest is not harmed by global warming, as can be seen in some european countries. finally, there is the very important social issue, namely the access of the population to the forest and the related tourism issue. it is not necessary to do this, but we must find the necessary interactions between these three issues, which are obviously decisive. the report, on the whole, is a step in the right direction and respects these balances and, above all, provides for these interactions between these three essential issues. there is a weakness, though. the one of european sovereignty. today we export a large proportion of our raw materials from various member states, especially to china. we have to admit that we do not have the same reciprocity, because china prohibits the export of raw wood to other parts of the world. we must act to make this sovereignty much stronger, to ensure that tomorrow this raw material is processed at home, in short circuits, to ensure that the whole chain can develop and there, we will respond concretely to employment, the environment and the reality of the climate challenge.
in writing. it is in our interest to ensure energy independence in the european union. we should not be dependent on importing fossil fuels or energy from the burning of fossil fuels from third countries. the less we burn fossil fuels in europe, the healthier our people are and the longer our lives. achieving climate objectives is also important for europe from a security perspective. a greener europe depends less on third countries for its energy policy. energy issues are closely linked to our sovereignty.
in writing. the scientific consensus is clear: we need to get to a 65 percent reduction in emissions by 2030. and yet the commission came up with a much less ambitious objective. fortunately, the european parliament is doing better, but here too there is no majority for a climate law that would simply reflect the scientific consensus. isn't that weird? how could you do that? it's got to be economic interests. we know why the far right is doing everything it can to avoid ambitious climate targets. they want to protect the major shareholders of oil multinationals. that's why they like to spit on the young people who come out on the streets for a livable planet. but even the traditional parties are stalling, hesitating, when there is just no time. why would i? because they realise that really ambitious targets would also mean that we would ask large multinationals to contribute, and not make the average worker pay with all kinds of eco-taxes? that we should break with the logic of the market and put energy policy back into public hands, instead of leaving it to the english, electrabel or shells of this world? that we need a completely different model of production, because capitalism doesn't offer a future for our planet?
president. - the nagorno-karabakh region is at a breaking point. my heart bleeds when i see it. the lives of ordinary citizens are being lost. this escalating violence is a road to nowhere. no military solution will bring peace, only dialogue. as the armenian prime minister said: a ceasefire can only be established if turkey is removed from the south caucasus. we can all say here that turkey is an important ally of the eu and a valuable member of nato, but how many conflicts, emergencies and tensions have not been made worse by erdoğan's actions? how long will it take for the eu to find the courage to speak out and for turkey to show that there are consequences to its actions? turkey had a choice. it could have used its considerable influence to calm tensions. instead, it is sending fighters from syria to further fan the flames of the conflict. the eu may think it is being pragmatic with regard to turkey. instead, she only shows weakness.
madam president, madam commissioner, from 2013 with the offshore leaks, to 2020 with the fincen files, through the luxleaks, swissleaks, panama papers, paradise papers, dubai papers, it is first of all the work of journalists and whistleblowers, who have helped to uncover these criminal acts, that we owe this information and to whom i would like to pay tribute today. your revelations have fueled the work of this parliament for years so that the mafia, the oligarchs, the despots, the terrorists, the drug lords, but also the crooked politicians stop looting the collective resources with the complicity of unscrupulous banks, like deutsche bank or ing who are pointed in the fincen files. at a time when we are scraping the bottom of the drawers to respond to the consequences of the covid crisis, how do we explain that 2 trillion suspicious financial transactions are possible through recapitalized banks thanks to this public money? fincen is sounding like a red flag. to thwart criminals and crooked politicians, banks must comply with their anti-money laundering obligations and the public authorities must compel them to do so. what are our governments and the council waiting for, once again, in its absence, to implement european legislation once and for all, to stop turning a blind eye to the support given by banks to criminal enterprises and to apply heavy fines and criminal sanctions against the managers of banking institutions, to encourage the establishment of the european financial supervisory unit, to consolidate the investigative and prosecutorial capacities at union level, to strengthen the services for the fight against financial crime in order to combat these financial crimes effectively. and let us not forget that behind these transactions, this crime, there are also thousands of victims. victims of drug trafficking, corruption, terrorism and armed conflict. all these activities are made possible by a common denominator: the dirty money that circulates through banks. so the rights of the victims must be guaranteed and their compensation paid.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i thank the honourable members for all their comments and i definitely take note of all they have said. what i heard today confirms the commission’s resolve to act swiftly and address the shortcomings of the union’s anti-money laundering legal framework. there were some questions which i would like to answer, especially from mr giegold and mr urtasun. you were asking about cases where we have sent formal letters to member states, and these are publically known. the commission has opened infringement procedures against member states that failed to notify transposition of the 5th anti-money laundering directive against cyprus, hungary, netherlands, portugal, romania, slovakia, slovenia and spain. in parallel, we are continuing to check those member states that have fully and correctly transposed the 4th anti-money laundering directive. i cannot disclose here to which member states we have sent informal letters. however, rest assured, that over the course of the next years, we will address all member states. let me stress again, the enforcement and effective implementation of the existing rules remain a top priority for the commission. we are also stepping up practical work to help national authorities detect money laundering. for example, the interconnection of beneficial ownership – ownership registers – should be operational in 2021. a similar interconnection between bank account registers is also part of our action plan, as it will speed up cross—border access to bank account information. however, criminals are highly adaptive and their methods are constantly evolving. the fincen revelations clearly illustrate the ongoing challenges that the main actors face in their efforts to detect illegal financial flows and prevent criminals from using the financial system to launder dirty money. our framework must therefore continuously evolve in order to keep pace with technological developments and the growing sophistication of financial crime. we are up to the challenge. in the first quarter of 2021, we will propose an ambitious anti-money laundering package in order to further strengthen the capacity to fight money laundering and protect the integrity of the financial system. in a single market, we can no longer afford to work in silos. we need to build bridges between anti-money laundering supervisors and financial intelligence units. for this, we need not only a stronger regulatory framework but also strong european union level structures to ensure its implementation. i wanted to be fair to those who mentioned the cayman islands. i wanted to clarify. there are two lists: one list is anti-money laundering and the other is fiscal cooperation tax. so some members were mixing this up, but okay. some members were speaking about tax non-cooperative jurisdiction, but of course we have to deal with this too. thank you for this debate. the commission and my colleague valdis dombrovskis, who was not able to attend this meeting today, we look forward to continuing to work with you on these crucial issues in order to further strengthen the integrity of the financial system and to ensure that dirty money finds no place to hide in the european union. thank you once again for this fruitful debate.
madam president, i have to say i am appalled by that response and i ask you, president, to hold the commission... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the publication of the fincen files, which reveal suspicious activity reports from european banking institutions to the us anti-money laundering agency, totalling usd 2 099 billion over the period 2000-2017, demonstrates, despite the rules adopted, once again the legislative gaps in the european order in the fight against money laundering and the ease with which illicit profits obtained by criminal organisations are laundered in europe and worldwide. at the july plenary session we welcomed the commission communication on an action plan to update the fourth and fifth anti-money laundering directives. i would like to stress the need and urgency of establishing a single body of rules at community level, including the transposition of the provisions of the anti-money laundering directive into a regulation. to establish a european aml/cft supervisory authority and a support and coordination mechanism for fius; ensure effective cooperation and exchange of information between them and the law enforcement authorities. tighter rules on suspicious money movements, greater transparency by all financial operators and coordinated investigative activity between member states can stop money laundering by criminal organisations by ensuring security for citizens and healthy competition between businesses.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, what we are discussing here today is people’s lives. talking about long—term care facilities means talking about both those giving and receiving care in a particularly vulnerable situation. due to protective measures, persons in care could no longer receive family and visitors. long—term care facilities could not immediately provide the type of care required in such exceptional circumstances. at particular moments in life we also rely on the commitment and dedication of others. never has this been more visible than during the current pandemic, when carers held the hands of their residents. the staff in long—term care facilities did their best to provide not just comfort and dignity at the end of a precious life, but also a sense of tenderness and care. people working in long—term care facilities deserve more than our applause and gratitude. we can pay tribute to them, but we must also take action. we need to deliver for residents and carers in our policymaking. covid—19 brings unprecedented challenges health—wise, economically and socially. some people are more at risk than others, especially the elderly, and people with a disability. when it comes to social services, there are users and service providers; we cannot help one if we do not help the other. we have seen how care workers and those receiving care are particularly exposed to the virus and its devastating consequences. this is of great concern to us. we need to improve the protection of the most vulnerable in our societies. too many lives have already been lost. we know that social services have been under particular strain and the commission is committed to help. together with commissioners nicolas schmit, who is responsible for jobs and social rights, and stella kyriakides, in charge of health, and helena dalli, responsible for equality, we have held discussions with organisations focusing on services to the elderly, people with disabilities, and others who are in need of long—term care. we are listening to the sector and are assessing different instruments and possible solutions to support both providers and users of these services. not all of today’s problems are new. the capacity of long—term care facilities to deal with any crisis was laid bare by covid—19. clearly, there are structural deficiencies – the lack of staff, difficult working conditions, low salaries and access to services. ongoing issues with affordability and the quality of long—term care services also come to mind, as well as the availability of such services in rural and remote regions. this explains why we are assessing whether our social protection systems are fit to deal with the needs of an aging population. families of women provide a large part of informal long—term care. informal carers deserve better support such as social protection, income replacement, training, counselling and day care. the gender care gap must be addressed, including the equal sharing of informal care responsibilities. we can do this through the implementation of the directive on work-life balance, which should be transposed by 2022. long—term care systems need revamping to better prepare them for rising long—term care needs and future health crisis. funding issues must be addressed at member state level because this is where the competence lies. however, i cannot stand here as a member of the commission and say that our hands are tied. we have been very active. i will share some examples with you. the react—eu programme will continue and extend to the crisis response and repair measures by reinforcing capacities in health and long—term care. in addition, the commission is working with the european centre for disease prevention and control to protect vulnerable groups including older people in residential homes, but also in places like migrant centres and prisons. the european centre for disease prevention and control has published guidance on infection prevention, control and preparedness for covid—19 in healthcare settings as well as guidance regarding surveillance of covid—19 in long—term care facilities. this guidance is a much needed tool for use right across the european union. the joint report of the commission and the social protection committee on the preparedness of long—term care systems in the european union will provide evidence and clear mapping of the challenges that need to be tackled. the commission is committed to implementing the european pillar of social rights, including principles of access to quality health and long—term care. preparations are ongoing for the upcoming action plan for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights to be adopted in 2021 under the guidance of my colleague commissioner schmit. the elderly must fully enjoy these rights, too. it is beyond doubt that covid—19 has hit the elderly hardest. at the same time, our work in tackling demographic change shows that our union is aging. given the current and future context, we need to discuss this and factor it into all aspects of our policy action. let me be clear, dear members of parliament: aging concerns all generations, not just the elderly. in early 2021 we will present a green paper on aging with the aim of launching a wide debate to discuss the long—term impacts of aging, care and pensions, active aging and the capacity of social protection systems to deal with an aging population. we will look at inter—generational solidarity and fairness, impacts on the labour market, the economy, and health and care systems. a substantial part will deal with questions on long—term care. based on the outcome of the consultations, the commission could be in a better position to consider what further initiatives could be taken on long—term care. to conclude, dear ladies and gentlemen, to borrow a thought from dostoevsky: you can best judge a society by how by how it treats its most vulnerable members, and those who take care of them. if we learn one lesson from the covid—19 pandemic, let it be the importance of solidarity. solidarity between generations must be one of the driving forces of europe’s recovery, as set out in the commission’s proposal for a major recovery plan to repair and prepare for the next generation. only together can we successfully exit the crisis and build a future. as i said at the beginning, we can pay tribute to the service providers, but we must also take action. we need to deliver for the service providers and users in our policymaking. in this i count on your support.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak on behalf of the ppe group. at the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic, no one could have predicted the terrible tsunami that has claimed so many lives. our elders in particular were in the eye of the storm. the difficult choices in some hard-hit areas about who could be hospitalized and who could not often resulted in an age-based decision. choices that we as a society have not had to make since world war ii. and let it be that generation that has worked to build our welfare state, that generation is the one that has failed us physically and mentally as a society. however, the right to long-term care is enshrined in our social pillar. let's face it, in the first wave, we were not prepared to deal with a crisis like this. this is not the time to hold public tribunals over who bears ultimate responsibility. but most of all, let's learn. we need to look for a better balance between well-being and physical health, between safety and mental well-being of our most vulnerable. we can no longer surrender the right of access and the right to a dignified farewell. and nest warmth is the best medicine for the fragility and vulnerability of people with dementia. the same conclusions can be drawn for the disabled sector, for young people in youth institutions and for single elderly people receiving home care. in our lack of action, the staff has done their best. they have carried the human dramas on their already overburdened shoulders. a sector which has been in a state of disrepair for years, is being undervalued and is not known to be the first to pass through the compensation fund. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the initiative of my colleagues fitzgerald and radtke in their 'eu carers' strategy', which calls for better working conditions and better management so that we can provide more quality care. our heroes of care deserve more than a round of applause. let the echo of that applause now resound loudly in concrete action!
mr. chairman, the ongoing pandemic has shown us the enormous vulnerability of the long-term care system for the elderly and the disabled. we have seen a number of clients succumb to the coronavirus in these facilities because they were not provided with access to protective equipment, safe isolation or testing. any failures, including insufficient support of the installations, should therefore be duly and promptly investigated. the pandemic has also shown us that the repeated calls for deinstitutionalization of long-term care facilities are more important than ever. smaller family-type facilities would not only improve the clients' chance of a full life, but would also be demonstrably more resilient to epidemiological crises. in the near future, therefore, we need to focus our efforts, but also sufficient resources, to achieve the goal of moving from institutional to community-based care. last but not least, unfortunately, the pandemic has set us up. we are witnessing a loss of respect for the elderly or acceptance of the disabled. the measure of a society is how it treats its most vulnerable. but the pandemic has shown us that our society has a long way to go to live up to the values we profess.
mr. chairman, please! there are different states and different societies. a little while ago, a colleague from the european people's party spoke about the lack of sensitivity of societies. i have the impression that my society, polish society, has reacted in a very thoughtful and, on the other hand, humanitarian way. that is what you were saying just now, mr patryk jak. and the countries have also reacted in different ways, some very recklessly, others, like my country, but not only my country, have reacted in a very predictive way. so in my country, poland, the death toll per million people was 20 times lower than in belgium, the country where we are. i'm impressed by what you said here in spain. i hope that the other spanish members will take up this matter. similar situations have occurred in belgium. another thing we say is that the european union did not react to this. this is true, but there are no health provisions in the european treaties. but there's no rule of law. the union has thus fallen into the trap of hypocrisy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are deaths in the homes of the european union, in my country, in portugal, which should have been, and could have been prevented. there has been negligence, there has been incompetence, there has been government inertia. i know that this is a national responsibility, but the european union must also coordinate and do more, and the commissioner's words are encouraging and give hope in this regard. we need coordination in health, but we also need a real plan and pact to combat loneliness in the european union. we have benefited from the excellent health professionals and also from the excellent professionals working in the ipss and in misericordie, who are often helpless. there is also a challenge: member states will receive billions of euros, for example in the recovery fund. it is essential that these resources are also used to protect the most vulnerable, to help those who need it most, and the funds going to the member states must also have an objective in this area. we have an average age of about 44 years, it tends to increase, it is something that forces us to act and you have to age with quality, not just last much longer.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by member states on the health status of patients in the long-term care facilities, in particular the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the health status of patients in long-term care facilities. many people in need of long-term care have been isolated for weeks in their homes, leading to reduced social contact, disrupted and altered routines, fear and anxiety. because of their protection, they are socially excluded, they are victims of social isolation, and loneliness and exclusion are particularly stressful for them. it's a generation, though, that doesn't live in a digital world. a worrying report by the world health organization on the impact of covid-19 shows that violence against older persons has increased sharply since the beginning of the pandemic. we must encourage member states to provide mental and emotional support as well as psychosocial assistance, but not least, financial assistance. reducing social isolation, but saving lives is a new challenge that often excludes each other. i hope that the european commission will take this into account in the green paper on ageing, which you mentioned in your speech, vice-president, to consider the adequacy of social protection systems and active ageing policies, as well as long-term care policies. how much we care for our elderly fellow citizens will be a reflection of our humanity and our humanity - because today you and i are one day older, and the people we're talking about tomorrow will be us!
mr president, commissioner, the situation was dramatic in many care facilities and nursing homes during the pandemic, particularly in my country, belgium. the question is therefore a fundamental one: what is the place of the elderly in our society? and what measures should be put in place in the member states and at european level to better support carers, to ensure that they are given greater recognition, to respect the freedom of choice of older people to go or not to go to care and rest homes, to support family carers and all healthcare actors to enable as many older people as possible to stay at home, in their living environment. this is obviously a very important element in a more comprehensive strategy which could be developed at union level. the proportion of people in belgium who are in care homes is very high, many are there without having really chosen it or because not enough consideration has been given to all the actors that would allow these elderly people to stay at home and to retain the freedom and serenity of living at home. i think this is an important aspect, we cannot isolate the reality of nursing homes, we must be able to see this in a more global way on the whole of the issue and concern for the elderly and the elderly in our society by supporting very strongly, in particular, close carers, family helpers, home helpers.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, in recent weeks, the documentary 'the social dilemma' has consistently been in the top ten most watched films on netflix. the message of the film or documentary is both frightening and very moving. social media platforms are no longer just a simple communication tool, but are huge profit machines that have a major impact on public discourse. they do this by not only deciding what information we get to see, but also deciding what content is allowed to be shown and what content is not - often in contravention of the law. i do not want the freedom of expression of european users to be in the hands of private companies, who act as sheriff's deputies and make decisions that only the courts can make. if we say that the law should apply online as well as offline, then we must stop interfering with freedom of expression through overblocking and arbitrary deletion by platforms. the juri report therefore proposes to establish clear procedural rules for the notice and action system in dealing with illegal content. this is important because it creates legal certainty for the platforms, but also legal certainty for users and their fundamental rights are respected. the report also calls for a strong european supervisory authority, able to ensure compliance with the rules and, above all, with the necessary enforcement powers to ensure the necessary transparency. an online platform cannot be a black box. its actions must be transparent, reasoned and understandable, especially when it makes such important decisions on the freedom of expression of users. and that brings me to a point that i'm particularly proud of in our report, which is that we proposed that we install a system that does not require prior review of uploaded content. in fact, we specifically instruct the commission that the digital services act cannot require platforms to use upload filters. the voluntary use of technical means by platforms should also not lead to content being scanned and blocked at the time of upload. and i think this is a huge success after the debate last year and a step towards an internet without any more upload filters. there is also content that is legal but can still cause great social harm. the same rules cannot apply to content such as fake news, disinformation, hate speech and propaganda as to how to deal with illegal content, as such content is often below the taste limit, but is protected by the freedom of expression. and so the problem we have with this kind of content is not so much that it exists at all, but that it's spreading like wildfire across the internet and being preferably flushed into users' timelines by platforms because algorithms believe that attention-grabbing content is more important than, say, democratic debate. thus, platforms can promise their actual customers - not us as users, but the advertisers - a particularly effective delivery of targeted, personalised advertising. but when algorithms exploit human curiosity to capture attention for profit, and fake news, hate and incitement are the gift wrapping paper for personalized online advertising, then we need to step in as legislators and take action against this business model. that's why we're calling in the report for users to have more control over their content. they have to decide what content they're going to see, and they have to decide if they want to see any targeted online advertising at all. we cannot allow user algorithms to be at the mercy of eroding our shared social information base and endangering our democracy. if this is the price that silicon valley companies must pay to make more profit from personalised advertising, then that price is clearly too high, and that business model has no place in our digital single market. that is why i am calling for the vote tomorrow to be taken on the legal affairs committee's text, despite the split vote on advertising. the split vote on paragraph 17 is intended to undermine protection against these harmful commercial practices and it is clear to us that this cannot happen, that the commercial interests of the advertising industry must not take precedence over the interests of the citizens. we are not yet at the forefront of the development of ai in the european union, ladies and gentlemen, but with the discussion we are having here today, we are a big step ahead of both china and silicon valley. in europe, artificial intelligence and digital services have to follow our principles, our values and our fundamental rights, and not the other way around.
rapporteur. – madam president, online services are everywhere, from the way we inform ourselves to the way we keep in touch with friends; from the way we buy books and clothes to the way we travel; from the way we eat to the way we make a date. some people born in a different time, like myself, might want to go back to how it was before, because it seems like a simpler time. but we can’t. we simply cannot put the genie back into the bottle. the online world with digital services, with artificial intelligence – it’s all here to stay. the future will be more digital, not less, and it brings incredible progress that we, as policymakers, should embrace. but... it also brings dangers that we cannot ignore anymore. let us be honest with each other, colleagues. the eu has done more to regulate the online world than any other continent. yet, even here, it is still the wild west! over the past decades, we have not followed up on illegal content and illegal activities online with the same rigour as we have illegal activities offline. we have not achieved any meaningful transparency over how algorithms push content to users on a massive scale. we have not grasped the impact of it on our democracies, our culture and our fundamental rights. instead, we have focused on voluntary cooperation, which is good, but not good enough. not nearly good enough. so as this european parliament discusses these six reports on the digital services act (dsa) and artificial intelligence (ai), i have one overarching message: these digital files matter a great deal more than many people think. we cannot leave this to the private sector without oversight and enforcement. we must keep this in the public debate as a priority and we must regulate, no matter how technical these files are. the difficult challenge before us is to find the balance between digital progress and respect for fundamental rights. as rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) dsa report, i’m raising a few issues right now. the value of lawmaking is the real change it effects. if we start off with conflicting regulations and directives that undermine each other instead of complementing each other, we have lost the battle before it starts. we must respect the scope of each digital file. secondly, the fundamentals of the e-commerce directive were great, but its greatest issue was transparency. we must improve and enforce meaningful transparency, and i call for a clear mandate from this parliament. thirdly, we all agree on the importance of notice and action mechanisms to remove illegal content online, but it places the burden almost entirely on users. we therefore should complement notice and action with clear and appropriate obligations to remove illegal content, and it’s the public authorities who should provide the funding to follow up on this. finally, i would like of course personally to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all my colleagues on the libe dsa report for their excellent cooperation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, we are in the midst of a global tech race. technology should empower us all, but we see everyday how it can be deployed for malign purposes, from deep-fake videos undermining democracy to the challenge of fully autonomous weapon systems. the eu is a regulatory power, but we must also be a tech superpower, not only for regulation but also for promoting technology and supporting it. that means developing metadata skills and partnerships with like-minded allies. the only way to ensure ethical development of ai is for the world’s democracies to win the global tech race and set the global standards. if china comes first, our ethical frameworks will be nothing more than well-intentioned empty words, and that cannot be.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1768/92 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). we have too little innovation, too few startups and too few patents. that is why, madam vice-president, we must invest massively in research. we see our best researchers and our best students being taken away by foreign countries. set concrete targets on the number of patents to be obtained, on start-ups and on the implementation of ai by existing companies. i'm not going to tell you. but research by the german federal ministry of health has indicated that 60% of the implementations are risk-free. the remaining 40% is already subject to sectoral regulation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i would like to say a few words about the debate today. in fact, it was a very intense, very enlightening session. the commission has also made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i shall recommend tomorrow that the amendments in this area be rejected because i believe they would have been included in the imco report and because i also believe that we could have discussed these issues very well in the shadow rapporteurs' meetings. i would like to say a few words about the report on ip rights for artificial intelligence, which i was the shadow rapporteur on: i think that the success of ai is also going to be very much dependent on the availability of data, and it's not just training algorithms that helps, but we have to make sure that they operate in a non-discriminatory way, and for that, we need to share and share data. and we need this to break up data monopolies and make the digital single market fair for all market participants. we would be promoting innovation in europe. but it is important for us social democrats that there are rules on intellectual property rights which do not have the effect of restricting the sharing and re-use of data. we reject the concept of data ownership, as well as rules that would have the same effect in practice. but at the same time we must ensure that the fruits of the work of human creators are adequately protected. in times of increasing use of ai-based tools in the creation of works and of ai's increasing ability to generate works autonomously without any human input, the value of human work, especially in the arts and creative sectors, needs to be recognised. and one last sentence on the other dsa: we have made it clear here today that we care about freedom of speech on the internet and that we are ready to fight for it. we look forward to the commission's proposal in december.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank you for this debate. the core ideas for the digital services act (dsa) are clear. the dsa must improve the framework for digital service providers to stimulate growth, but it must also make the fight against illegal content more successful and it must improve transparency and oversight. our core idea for digital intelligence should be clear as well. either we develop ai based on our own values and with economic benefits or we end up using ai developed on other continents without those values and without a large part of the economic benefits. a strong risk—based approach offers the best way forward here. these challenges are difficult, but i fully support the efforts of all the rapporteurs here today. we are not even close to a satisfying legal situation, but these reports are an excellent start. madam commissioner, listening to your reaction, i am very positive about the proposals that you will make and we can discuss very soon.
mr president our farmers are a vital part of the eu economy, they provide us with food and the sector creates jobs in rural areas. all of this requires modern agriculture with adequate funding. without it, the fight against climate change cannot be carried out properly, only at the expense of economic viability. however, we must not forget that during the last pandemic, food was always available, and it is still available. in the future, however, this will have to be done from a much smaller cap budget. we can't experiment with the new green deal. the system is new, the outcome is uncertain, flexibility is required. it should be ensured that any unused amounts in ecosystems are freely available to member states. the cap also plays an important role in preventing rural exodus, and supporting sectors in difficulty is therefore key. the coupled support should therefore be maintained at the current level and the transitional national support should be continued. the latter aid is budget-neutral, but its absence would have a very negative impact on a number of sensitive sectors. last but not least, i would like to stress that we must make a clear distinction between plant-based products and meat products. our farmers grow both, neither is directed against the other, both are important. however, it is in all of our interests to be able to distinguish these from one another, including their names. i'm asking everyone to make reasonable, reality-based decisions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are completing a reform process which has taken us two and a half years to debate. it is a reform which maintains its two-pillar structure but which introduces major changes. so it's not just another reform. with the preparation of the strategic plans we are reinforcing subsidiarity to the states. we in my group have always been concerned about the excess of this subsidiarity because of the possible renationalisation of the agricultural policy. i hope that doesn't happen. what is important and what have we been defending? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers' incomes are maintained, which is essential if we want farmers to survive and if we want to have activity in rural areas. but we need to make a change in green architecture. it's true that greening hasn't worked, and that's why society has a sense that we need to make major changes. and we must do so with this new green architecture, with conditionality being reinforced in the commitments, with new eco-schemes, voluntary for farmers but compulsory for the states, with a high subsidy rate of 30% according to the commitments. all this, with a share of 40% in the whole of the agricultural policy. so these changes must be made so that agriculture remains a fundamental activity in our rural areas and society understands and appreciates the environmental role it plays. and if we want to see the capping, the ceiling for farms, approved - something that is important to the socialists - as a social conditionality or a better role for the regions in my country's case. i therefore ask that the commitments which the three political groups have made be supported and approved. they're important in strategic planning. i also ask for support for the single cmo, on which a great deal of work has been done, as with the horizontal regulation. i also support the socialist amendments, which defend what i have been saying.
mr president, whatever one may say, agriculture is, has been and will remain a risky business. to counteract this risk, she does not need to be cuddled, caressed or taken care of. to meet the many economic, health and environmental demands, agriculture will need more predictability, more capacity for innovation, political coherence and a level playing field both within and outside the european union. i said, "a level playing field". it is doubtful whether we can put an end to cultural practices which are more environmentally friendly, even if they are very praiseworthy, if they are maintained in third countries which maintain them and export their products to us. i'm told the boarder adjustment mechanism is there to put an end to this injustice. i'll wait and see, it's far from certain. in conclusion, i would ask for the farmer: that he be a little less exposed to what is, what must be; a little less sectarianism; a little more respect; a little more objectivity; and ultimately a little more feasibility. i know because i've been there.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i want to extend greetings from the czech republic. let me start by thanking the farmers who feed the 450 million people in the european union, and they are not having an easy time of it because they are affected by climate change and now by the impact of the covid-19 pandemic. let us bear this in mind when we decide to reform the common agricultural policy. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts to help the member states to develop their own national and european policies. i want, like most citizens in the european union, to support only active farmers with european funds. we do not want to continue to support the non-transparent agro-complexes that expand their businesses at the expense of family farms and small and medium-sized enterprises. i consider this a great danger for the countryside, for the protection of the countryside, but also for european agriculture as a whole. i have therefore proposed a number of amendments with my colleagues. we want to simplify the drawings for small farmers to eur 5 000, we want to limit direct payments for drawings to a maximum of eur 1 million per entity. we also propose that member states be able to bring their farmers' subsidies up to european standards. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that it is thanks to european subsidies that we can afford a high standard of food quality, but we cannot afford to continue to support the oligarchs, and therefore i ask you to support the amendments which will prevent this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, for the survival of agriculture, for a living income for farmers, for attracting young farmers. because make no mistake, in europe a thousand farmers disappear every day. i went to talk to them. and i collected their stories in a book: "peasant pride". if you listen to them, you hear the passion, you feel their craftsmanship. but you also see the problems and challenges they face every day. then you'll realize more than ever that reform is needed. and that reform is also needed to make agricultural policy greener, more in line with the green deal. well, ladies and gentlemen, for some people the proposal is too green, for others it is not green enough. i tell you: i think it is realistic and ambitious and will combine the agricultural policy with the green deal. so be a "boer proud" and vote for this agricultural reform. i would like to present this book to you, commissioner.
mr. chairman, after the epic debates at the height of the pandemic, when the amazon rainforest and jungle were discussed here, today we reach a new high in the political debate. at a time when farmers' money is being discussed, here in this room, colleagues are arguing whether a burger is vegan or vegetarian, and whether it can be a burger if it's vegan or vegetarian. as they say, if it's important to you, gentlemen, argue! but i cannot agree to the compromises proposed by the three largest groups in the european parliament. once again, this chamber proves that when it comes to allocating funds from common taxes, there are no ideological divisions, but always the interests of the old member states are considered against the new ones. the story of the mobility package, alas, is repeating itself. we tried to introduce amendments to align the percentages proposed by the council. it didn't work out. this will lead to what is known as unreliable farmer incomes and a decline in competitiveness. in fact, we all know what the battle is here: more money for the uncompetitive farmers of the old countries. there is no way to have an effective common economic policy.
mr president, the current cap reform is the most ambitious reform to date, as it introduces both a new performance-based delivery model and higher climate targets. for the first time, eco-schemes are also being introduced and direct payments are being made conditional on compliance with certain environmental requirements. but along with environmental sustainability, we must not forget economic and social sustainability. unfortunately, we will not achieve full external convergence of direct payments in the new programming period either. and without convergence of payments, farmers in the new member states will continue to be at a disadvantage compared to their counterparts in other countries. instruments such as transitional national aid and tied aid partially compensate for lower support levels in the member states and have an important social impact in rural areas. i therefore urge you in the upcoming vote to support transitional national aid as an instrument that provides financial assistance with national funds for vulnerable sectors and farmers. as regards tied support, i regret that the compromise amendment under article 86 did not provide for greater financial flexibility to allow member states to allocate a higher percentage of the first pillar funds to tied support. in this context, and given the enormous importance of this aid to sensitive sectors in some member states, i would appeal for the support of the 13%+2% tied aid.
mr president, i should first like to thank very warmly all the farmers who feed the european population every day. we've seen through the covid crisis how important their role is every day. this nurturing function must of course remain at the very heart of the common agricultural policy. this does not prevent the achievement of new performance and objectives in the areas of climate change and biodiversity. this is already the case: if we look at europe and compare it with the rest of the world, the agricultural world has made efforts overall, which will certainly be more important in the future. but we must do so with a certain degree of trust in each other, without bureaucracy or administrative work and without additional burdens for all farmers, and i am thinking particularly of small producers. in the guidelines we must also, of course, support the smallest farms. to do this, there must be redistributive aid to support more the first hectares, to support more small family farms at european level. finally, i would like to say that i am of course in favour of all the climate and biodiversity objectives, that is obvious. no other sector has as many standards as the agricultural sector: health standards, animal welfare, biodiversity... all this is already part of the standards and conditionalities, which will be strengthened. but i would really like, once and for all, that whenever free trade agreements are discussed here, they should be given this particular attention, to avoid ruining the european economy, ruining farmers and, in some cases, winning the climate bet by means of these imported products.
chairman of the counting session! through the cap, we are sending a signal about the kind of agriculture we want and how we want to shape the future of the sector. the most important message of the strategic plan we are discussing today is that farmers are expected to become increasingly environmentally conscious. that farmers are increasingly being asked to focus on broader climate goals. but that means more rules and more restrictions on eligibility. however, the tightening of restrictions and rules may lead to a significant loss of competitiveness for many producers and to the impossibility of production. the restrictions must be based on the assumption that we are not depriving farmers of their future prospects, because the preservation of agriculture and rural life is essential for the future of europe. the specificities of the member states should be taken into account more when setting the restrictions. for example, for an estonian farmer producing in a peripheral area of the european union, market access is already associated with significant additional costs. however, our production costs are higher than average and our direct subsidies are significantly lower than average. nevertheless, i intend with a heavy heart to vote in favour of the compromises negotiated under the auspices of my good colleague peter jahr, even if they are painful. but i hope that on a number of important issues, more appropriate solutions will be found in the trilateral negotiations.
mr president, i would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the rapporteurs on reaching the compromise text, especially my epp colleagues herbert, peter and others. this has been one of the toughest negotiations we ever had and to finally get agreement on some of the key elements is extremely welcome. no, this is not a perfect text, but as always, the sign of a good compromise is when nobody is fully satisfied. however, we must focus on the positives of the agreement found. one, this is the greenest cap we have ever had and at least 35% of all rural development funding must be used for environmental and climate measures. 30% of investments must be beneficial for the environment. it is more ambitious than the commission’s proposal and strikes a good balance between ensuring farmers get a fair income, preserving our rural communities and ensuring we secure the production of top quality european food. i additionally welcome the reduction of needless bureaucracy. coming from a rural constituency i know very well how badly we need simplification and the cutting of red tape. i think this compromise will help in this regard. most of all this is a good deal for farmers, the people who have devoted their lives, the people who know best how to protect our rural environment, preserve biodiversity and produce sustainable quality food. i hope we will agree with the compromises to put us in a strong position to go with council for negotiations.
mr. chairman, please! direct payments are one of the pillars on which the common agricultural policy is based. they are what help european farmers to produce high-quality, safe and healthy food. direct payments also offset some of the risks associated with agricultural production, which, unlike any other sector, is subject to additional risks linked to weather or climate change. such measures are also important for consumers, as they guarantee continuity of supply and affordable prices. unfortunately, although the challenges faced by european farmers and the costs associated with agricultural production are similar across the european union, direct payments are still different, creating unequal competition in the single market. of course, thanks to the mechanism of external convergence or transfers between pillars, these differences are reduced. and it's good that those records are also in the current proposal. however, direct payments between member states have not been equalised. i would therefore like to call for support for the amendment that the process of convergence of direct payments should be completed as soon as possible and at the latest by the end of the next funding period. i am firmly convinced that only by treating all european farmers equally and fairly can we achieve fair competition in european agriculture.
mr president, we can spend months debating in this house figures and eco-schemes, financial allocations, the green deal, capping, climate measures and many other issues directly related to the cap. but i ask you: have we stopped to think seriously about whether this cap is the one that best serves our farmers? is that what they need? is it the cap you're waiting for? is this the reform that protects the hard work of those who, despite so many difficulties, continue to cultivate the land? the one that gives answers to farmers who don't know how to cope with water shortages? is this the cap that meets the expectations of farmers and livestock farmers in the most disadvantaged areas, in the outermost regions, such as the canary islands, who are extremely concerned about the fact that the posei index is being reduced to zero? is the cap promoting agricultural employment and generational renewal? i honestly don't think so. i think it's not the best possible cap. because it is not the cap they need, nor is it the cap they expect, nor is it the one that suits them, nor the one that protects them. and, more importantly, not the one they deserve. it is a political cap and a very distorted one. and we cannot reform the cap by looking at other issues and forgetting about farmers. because they're the ones who can be left without a future. and we cannot and must not leave them without hope, not from this seat of mine at least.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not thank you for the stimulating debate. i've written down four or five of the skeptics' arguments. argument number one: we need more time. i think we have discussed every problem in the last three, two or one year, and i would say that the words have changed enough, we want to see decisions. secondly, eco-schemes. i think there's been a mistake. eco-schemes are not voluntary for the member states, they are compulsory. they are voluntary for the farmers, and i do not understand why we have so many sceptics about farmers. the farmers are the solution, and they will naturally accept the eco-schemes if they have been reasonably implemented by the member states, and they will not give up 30% of their income. the use of environmental programmes so far is encouraging, and i expect that the eco-schemes will be oversubscribed. the farmers will be more involved than perhaps money is available. the third argument is compromise. it is a compromise between the three main political groups. this is visually correct, but in reality it is not quite correct, because the three also made an effort to look left and right. and anyone who reads the compromises carefully will also find suggestions from the other groups in these compromises. the compromise is specifically designed to win a large majority. fourth, it is an old system. firstly, we have made a major improvement to the commission's proposal, and secondly, to the delivery model, i.e. the shift from action to results. i would say, if you think about it and understand it, this is the biggest revolution since the mcsherry reform, since 1992. so let us take the opportunity together to finally make a results-oriented common agricultural policy. key point: too little support for small farms. you should be a big supporter of our redistribution plans. so once again, my appeal, my wish: jump over the shadow in part, help us reach a decision, help us, support the reform and together we will make the world a little bit better.
the rapporteur. the commission is not the common agricultural policy has been an important pillar of our union for decades. a cluster that has brought our regions together in all their diversity. these diverse regions provide a home and a quality of life for the citizens of our europe. the eu's motto 'unity in diversity' is particularly relevant to agriculture and rural areas. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. our group supports the new delivery model and the compromises that have been worked out, commissioner. the new delivery model is a real opportunity to strengthen the diversity of farms in the member states. i am convinced that this will help to protect the environment, improve the climate and preserve biodiversity. and the most important thing, from my personal point of view, is that it will continue to produce the highest quality food. it also offers real opportunities for farmers and forestry workers, because they get planning security and appreciation back and can also generate income. three words: performance must be rewarded. that was our basic premise. flexibility for diversity in the regions we have created through these strategic plans. the commission has also proposed that the member states simplify the administrative process. it may not be the best outcome on the table, peter, and we agree, but i firmly believe that we are on the right track and that we can shape the future here. we're moving from compliance to performance, and taking farmers with us. mr president, i have one more question on the vote on our horizontal list. why is it that in rule 183 (3) of the rules of procedure the compromise proposals put forward by all the political groups are not voted on first and then those put forward by the epp, s&d and ecr? can you please explain this to me later? thank you very much. i think we are ready to vote on behalf of our european farmers.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it was a fascinating debate, it was a great overview of all the major problems of european agriculture, an overview from different perspectives, from different points of view. only from such a debate can good compromises and effective solutions be born. thank you so much for that. of course, because of the short time available, i will not be able to refer to all the 80 or so speeches made in this debate, but i will refer to a few personally: speeches on behalf of the political groups and some other speeches, especially those of the coordinating members from the committee on agriculture. i'm not sure. maintaining the common character of the common agricultural policy. the same thing has been said by others, and mr de castro has repeatedly raised it in our debates. i think we've made a big step to increase this community character, to strengthen it. the commission's initial proposals in 2018 could indeed have raised some concerns. i thank the european parliament, i thank you, and i thank the members of the committee on agriculture in particular, for the discussions which have also been inspiring for the commission. the environmental programmes are 30% compulsory. we are going to present some proposals for concrete eco-programmes inspired by parliament. this is a step towards removing these doubts about the community nature of the agricultural policy. we need to combine these two things, and take into account the great differences that exist between member states, between countries, regions and sectors, which is why strategic plans offer a lot of flexibility. but i think that what we have worked out here together will serve to maintain the common character of the agricultural policy. this is mrs. garcia perez. food safety and health. and it's been going on for a lot of other speeches. i believe that this reform will strengthen europe's food security. the fact that we better protect our land, the fact that we use ecological solutions to counter the devastation of our land, the devastation of our environment, will in the long run increase the food security of our citizens. mr huitema spoke about direct subsidies, and on the other hand that it would be better if farmers were able to live off the market income. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. but this was the vision of the framers of the common agricultural policy, who 60 years ago recognised that agriculture was not a business like any other, but an activity that needed support, and that without this support european farmers would not be able to compete, especially on a global scale. the various difficulties that are encountered in europe require that farmers be supported, and i think we must continue to do so, there is no other solution here. you also spoke of local conditions. i think strategic planning is a very good place to consider these local conditions. this reform provides a wide scope for action in this area. mrs bizzotto said these important words: 'a country without agriculture is a country without a future'. i fully agree with that and i think that what we are doing is for the future of agriculture, for the whole of the european union and all the member states not to become countries without agriculture. and especially what we are doing for small and medium-sized farms, because this reform - i am deeply convinced and i will do my best in this second phase of it, in the strategic planning phase, to make these farms more closely integrated into the whole system of the common agricultural policy, to make them the centre of this system. this is precisely what should ensure that the countries of the european union do not become countries without agriculture and without a future. mr häusling has drawn attention to a problem which of course concerns us: 80% and 20%. the 80% of farmers, the smaller ones, receive only 20% of the eu funds, while the 20% of the larger ones receive 80% of all the funds. however, i think that thanks to the eco-programmes these proportions will change, maybe not enough to be satisfactory, but the eco-programmes - and mr kuzmiuk among others spoke about this - are a good solution for small farms. i would like to express my deep conviction and also to make a statement about some of the commission's actions in favour of small and mediumsized farms, but especially small farms, which today very often fall out of the competition, disappear, we are losing them at a very rapid rate - four million farms in a decade. this process will be stopped by this reform and by the inclusion of small farms in the system, especially in the eco-programmes. ladies and gentlemen, 30% is more than 80 billion euros for environmental actions. and the smaller farms will be easier to get into the system. i'm convinced that there will be no problem in encouraging these small farmers to enter this eco-program system. they'll be the center of the system. i'm really cool about it. there's concern that there will be unused funds. of course, we have to anticipate and be prepared to avoid losing these funds, but these small farmers will certainly be interested in getting involved. mr ruissen spoke of too much centralisation and too little budget. i think there's less of a central management. strategic plans, a control system that transfers more of this direct control to the member states that is, less central management. too small for your budget? that's right, you did. we would always like to see more, but i would remind you that it was this commission, the commission of mrs von der leyen, that for the first time in history presented new proposals, proposals increased by 26 billion euros. the council has reduced this increase a bit, but it's still over 21 billion euros more, so it's an ambitious budget. there was also mrs noichl's statement that it was as if the green deal had been imposed on the old proposal for a common agricultural policy. well, i wouldn't agree with that. of course, in a formal sense, this is an old proposal, but a number of new solutions have been strengthened here in terms of the green deal. i also note that there will be a second phase strategic plans and dialogue between the member states and the commission. there will be room for full implementation of the field-to-table strategy, the biodiversity strategy or the strategy adopted a few days ago to reduce methane emissions in agriculture. and also mr. flanagan. to take out of the agricultural policy what is not related to agriculture. i'm not sure. i'm saying that's the intention. for example, the second pillar has so far financed many activities which can be successfully financed from other funds: from cohesion policy, from the corrective fund, which has been adopted and will also be able to support this particular agricultural environment. there's a certain amount of reflection that's needed here. mr dorfmann, please. farming is not a hobby, it's a profession. i would add something else: farming is a mission. and we're trying to protect and support that mission through this reform, through the solutions that we're proposing. ladies and gentlemen! i thank you again for this debate, for the solutions that have been put forward, for the compromises that have been proposed, and which are for the most part going in the right direction, especially on this crucial element of the eco-programmes and the allocation of an appropriate share of the budget to these eco-programmes. this is the key to this reform and these are very good proposals from parliament. i want to say this: i grew up in a farming family, in an agricultural environment, where the principle was (was and i think it still is) that it was not about profit at any cost, "as little as possible to get the most profit", but above all to leave the farm in the best possible condition. to pass on to the next generation in the best possible condition: better cultivated land, better protected animals - that has always been the goal of every good farmer. i believe very strongly that through this reform we will be able to leave our agriculture in a better state for future generations, and that is the purpose of this reform. i thank you very much, members, for your cooperation in this very endeavour, in this action for a better future.
i would like to thank you very much for your positive summary. i'm going to ask my colleagues to stay here. the joint debate is closed after 85 minutes, but i have only to answer mrs müller's question. the 85 speeches also show very clearly how much we are concerned about this issue, how much it is important in the regions, in every farm, and how diverse the approaches to the common agricultural policy are - economic, ecological and social - and that this is actually an issue that concerns all citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, listen to the farmers' unions who have come to the table. listen to the environmental groups. this is a very serious time. ensuring that everyone has sufficient and quality food is the starting point of any agricultural policy. if the profit motive of speculators or the food industry is the standard, we are on the wrong track. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the crisis. and unfortunately, that is the choice made by the common agricultural policy. since you have put agriculture on the market, let us think of the abolition of milk and sugar quotas, it has become impossible for many farmers to survive. in some countries, one farmer commits suicide every day. a new common agricultural policy should not only take account of real agricultural activity, employment and the provision of services to society, but also contribute to the transition towards agro-environmental and organic practices, the reduction of meat consumption in favour of plant proteins, organic farming and short-run farming. it is the opposite of what is proposed today. the european union, true to its market dogmas, will continue to sell our agriculture to the agribusiness. we will continue the struggle.
madam president, good policing is a consequence of understanding the moral responsibility that comes with holding power. the legitimacy of policing is based upon consent, integrity and accountability. 2020 has brought an appetite for change and self—examination. we should not miss this opportunity to renew our social contract and better ourselves as a society, not only to ensure we stamp out any abuses of power or acts of brutality within our police forces, but also to bring to an end the growing threat of violence to police officers on our streets. these are difficult discussions to have but they are necessary. when our institutions and those within it fail, which at times they do, we must not hesitate to hold our own feet to the fire. acknowledging the wrongdoing of the few does not undermine the integrity of the many, it only strengthens it.
mr president, the moment of truth is approaching for brexit. i am glad that both sides say they want to achieve a close partnership, which indeed, mr barnier, must be much more than a ceta agreement. the consequences of no deal are terrible, especially on top of the recession we're having now due to the pandemic. the university of leuven has calculated that the whole union is losing one per cent of its gross national product and that we are losing structurally 1.2 million jobs which we will not be able to recover in one, two or three years. the situation is even worse for the countries around the north sea. in flanders we are losing 2.5% of our gdp and 28 000 jobs are at stake. so we must reach a compromise and do everything possible to achieve it. i am charmed, mr barnier, by your approach and the broad lines of it, namely respect for each other's sovereignty and broad red lines on a level playing field, on good governance and on fisheries. but we must share the legendary british pragmatism if we are to reach a good agreement. of course, mr šefčovič, the unacceptable provisions must be removed from the internal market bill. fortunately, there are still some good conservatives in the british house of lords for whom a word is a word. i wish you every success along those lines. we're running out of time!
mr president, i read with great interest the council conclusions on africa and the intention to strengthen our partnership with it. i would like to highlight a very particular kind of partnership that has now been initiated between the european union, between the commission and african cocoa-producing countries – cote d’ivoire and ghana – because we really need to do something to eradicate child labour and deforestation from our supply chains. the brand new multi-stakeholder platform on cocoa is exactly what is going to do that, with broad cooperation between partner countries, the eu, civil society and local producers. the aim is to bring about sustainable livelihoods for poor people, poor growers in africa, and avoid damage to our environment. i would encourage you to vote in favour of the burkhardt report this week, which is exactly about this partnership to eradicate deforestation from supply chains.
mr president, thank you and the many members for reiterating their support for the irish protocol, which is extremely important. but there are other key issues. the all-ireland economy is not just about goods, it’s also about the free movement of people and services. the common travel area, however, does not allow for the free movement of eu nationals. an all-ireland labour market and cross-border access to services are essential to the lives of thousands of eu nationals living in ireland north and south, as well as to the all-ireland economy. parliament called for this in a resolution earlier this year and now we should make it a reality. because the good friday agreement is based on rights; the right to access eu programmes and healthcare across the eu, and the right to be represented in this parliament. we should find a way to give effect to these rights. rights that are being taken away by the spectre of brexit, and the right to self—determination, which would allow the majority who opposed brexit in the north of ireland to remain within the eu through the vehicle of irish unity - a central provision of the good friday agreement and which is likely to happen within the next few years. we all know the real problem is the partition of ireland and it would be wise for all of us to start preparing for irish unity.
mr president, last week’s european council did not bring a brexit-breakthrough, and frankly nobody expected it. it is the uk side that has to move now. yet london is sulking because their third artificial deadline was not respected, and lord frost even dared to be ‘disappointed’. well, in my honest view, the uk government has lost the right to be disappointed – the moment it introduced a bill to unilaterally override an international agreement that was the fruit of more than three years of negotiations; a bill that puts the uk’s international credibility at stake; a bill that was met with strong rebukes from the european parliament and the american congress; a bill that was rejected by the scottish and northern irish assemblies, and yesterday by the house of lords; a bill that undermines trust and hangs over the negotiations like a sword of damocles. we have stated it again and again: this house will not ratify an agreement if the withdrawal agreement is breached, or threatened to be breached. a no-deal brexit after four years of negotiations would be a drama for our fisheries, for our hauliers, for our people and, last but not least, for politics. now is not the time for brinkmanship, now is not the time for blame-games, now is the to time to wrap it up and finally land a deal. the eu will never walk away from these negotiations, no matter the amount of spin that comes out of number 10. for this parliament, there is still time until the beginning of november, so keep calm and negotiate on. michel barnier, maroš šefčovič, we trust in you.
mr president, may i begin by expressing the condolences of the spanish socialist delegation to the family of professor samuel paty, the victim of barbarism, and also condemning any form of terrorism. we are in full solidarity with the people and the french authorities in their fight against this scourge. because fanaticism and violence strike directly at the heart of the european project, a project which is based on values such as tolerance, coexistence, freedom, diversity and peace. we must act decisively in the face of the drift of both religious fanaticism and political extremism which is sweeping through europe, sowing hatred, division and involution. they're putting our common future at risk. the moderate political forces must be united and responsible. they can't give the far right wings. i warn sailors, especially those of my country, especially today. as regards brexit, i would once again like to salute the hard work of our negotiator, michel barnier, and to convey to him our firm support for the negotiations to be accelerated and completed in due course. mr johnson must respect his engagements, otherwise it would be very difficult to conclude an agreement with such an unreliable partner. johnson has to respect the withdrawal agreement as well as community rules on social, labour, environmental and tax matters. the rights of european citizens living in the united kingdom must be guaranteed. whatever the circumstances of the divorce, our europe must continue to move forward at 27 and reflect on its future. the council must move to start the conference on the future of europe as soon as possible. we need that new momentum.
mr president, five years after the british took back their freedom, there is still no trade agreement. that is the result of years of deliberate sabotage. the brexit must be made as painful as possible, it seems, because a positive new cooperation and relationship with the united kingdom is proof that there is an alternative to the eu superstate and the ever closer union. if brexit is successful, even more countries will want to leave the european union. and that is something that must be prevented at all costs. despite centuries of trade relations with the united kingdom, this has now threatened 40 000 jobs in flanders. we are paying the price for the cramped attitude of the euro-fanatic elite. this european union is becoming something we never signed up for. if this continues, the flemings, like the british, will sooner or later draw their conclusions.
the days of the transitional period are running out, mr president, and we are hearing again and again that the negotiations are being intensified. but we haven't seen any real progress. it is time to send a clear message to our companies, our smes and our fishermen. hope for the best, prepare for the worst. but despite all this, we must not give up. a goal in the last minute could bring the victory. the last few inches in a cycling race can be the most important. the stakes are simply too high. we have to think about the possible redundancies that will follow a hard brexit. we must think of the number of bankruptcies that will increase among our smes and our fishermen. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must do everything we can to persuade the british to be reasonable. stilaan also sees that the british have taken the wrong path. the recent vote in the house of lords on the internal market bill should be a wake-up call to the british government. the message was clear: pacta sunt servanda, breaking international law is damaging to the reputation of a country. a good agreement is better for both sides of the channel than no agreement at all. i would like to conclude by wishing michel barnier and the vice-president every success. de affectio societatis, if an agreement is to be reached, both parties must be convinced that an agreement is the best solution. on our side, it's obvious. i hope that in the next few hours and days it will become clear on the british side as well.
president, commissioner, if a cleaning lady is to be quarantined, she will lose her job or part of her salary. i know it's hard to imagine. because if you have to quarantine, you'll just keep your 20,000 euros salary. but this virus is a real class virus, and the working class is hit much harder than the millionaire class. the working class cannot retreat to an estate. he has to go to work, he has to take public transportation, and he risks salary and job. while the shareholders continue to receive dividends, the ordinary employees lose their jobs. that is reality! and what kind of programme is the european union coming up with? especially with hundreds of billions for the big corporation. for that, the big company doesn't even have to pay fair taxes or stop paying dividends. you don't have to do all that. even securing jobs is not a condition. you can't be! free ivs while the common man loses his job! no, that's totally unacceptable to us. i would like to suggest that you reverse that logic. instead of giving taxpayers massive amounts of money to big business for free, let's do the opposite. let's get the very richest, the millionaires, to contribute and then let's invest that money in public services and our public sector. it's good for all of us. i think that's a much better deal for our entire society, both socially and ecologically.
madam president, after a lockdown in the spring many activities were put on hold, companies lost their income and people lost their jobs. actions are required, especially now. we see that many member states are in a second lockdown, and that it’s being initiated. all these socio—economic measures you talked about depend on a balance of competences at national and european level. i call on the commission to increase its active monitoring and guidance. i ask the council to uphold solidarity and europe—wide coordination. borders should stay open, internal markets should remain active, health risks should be tackled together. special attention should also go to those that are the hardest hit – research, health, the cultural sector, tourism and small and medium enterprises in general. the croatian government has announced additional measures to improve support for micro entrepreneurs, as together with small and medium enterprises, they form the backbone of our economy. safeguarding jobs, guaranteeing income and on top of that developing actions to limit the spread of the virus, this crisis requires a lot from us. only with a genuine european approach we can assure social and economic recovery. we are in this together. no one can save themselves by themselves.
madam president, i think it is undeniable that the recovery fund has been and remains a great necessity in order to support the economies of the member states and to be able to cope with this unprecedented and unprecedented pandemic which is sweeping everything in its path. but it's also common knowledge that the recovery fund was decided with different data and under different circumstances, when the pandemic was in its infancy and no one could have calculated and estimated the enormous socioeconomic impact and the depth that it would have. i therefore believe that today, given the present situation, we need to review our objectives and targets. on the one hand, the recovery fund can become the fund for the economic recovery of the economies of the countries, and on the other hand, there is a need today, here and now, for a new strong fund of this kind, which can be called the 'social recovery fund'. this fund will be able to directly channel money into the market for our unemployed, since there is a risk that the unemployment funds in all countries will collapse, for small and mediumsized enterprises, farmers, vulnerable groups, pensioners, the socioeconomic whole. and this is especially important because the economic recovery fund (1.4 trillion euros) will take too long to bring money to the market. i come from a country, cyprus, which is heavily dependent on tourism, like other countries in the south. if these countries do not receive direct support for the tourism sector, i can assure you that in the coming years we may have tourism but we will not have tourism businesses because they will be driven into bankruptcy. the social fund is therefore essential to prevent the bankruptcy and bankruptcy not only of companies but also of the economies of our countries.
i have to say, madam president, the european measures to contain the coronavirus pandemic must first and foremost benefit workers, young people and women. the rich should not get richer because of the crisis. we cannot allow the financial injections to benefit only companies and that without any conditions. why do i say that? as a warning example, i would like to mention the austrian truck company man. man received tons of taxpayer money, eu aid to rebuild, and now the company is moving out, leaving 2,000 people unemployed. this is not what solidarity reconstruction looks like! these 2 000 workers are an example to millions of working people who have lost their jobs or are now afraid of losing them. in addition, women are often not only the first to be fired, but also the first to be doubled and tripled in the number of jobs they have. and yet they are our heroes in this crisis. where exactly is your support? we can counter this by investing in quality jobs. more specifically, for example, by investing in social infrastructure, such as high-quality care and care from baby to old age. if we invest just 2 percent of national gdp in quality care, we can create up to 1.5 million jobs. one and a half million! that's why we're investing in this quality care work now, we're investing in the future, in a well-being economy for all of us!
in an unprecedented effort to deal with the effects of the global crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic, we have in recent months, at european and national levels, adopted a historic and extraordinary package of measures to rebuild europe. the european union has allocated more than €65 billion for resilient health systems and the procurement of medical equipment. at that moment, a great solidarity was shown. at the level of the republic of croatia and the government of the republic of croatia, it also acted swiftly and effectively to support, first and foremost, the private sector, workers and employers in order to preserve jobs. thanks to the financial assistance of the european union and the active involvement of the croatian government, croatia has registered more than three thousand new insured persons compared to february this year. croatia continues to work actively to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. of course, with the generous support of european funds. new measures for entrepreneurs were also presented yesterday, and by the end of the year, they are also expected to cost around 350 million kuna (47 million euros). this pandemic is a huge challenge, but it's also an opportunity for transformation and for reducing economic and social disparities. the european union is a complex mechanism, but it must take account of the priorities of the member states, network strongly and link up in the common interest. there's a time ahead of us when we have to think like chess, at least two moves ahead.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think that in this debate it has become very clear how deep the crisis we are facing is and that the new measures and new restrictions that have been taken in these weeks in our member states could further challenge the recovery. so this is my first point. the crisis is not behind us because this crisis is not like a war that finishes at a certain point and, with the end of the war, reconstruction begins. in this case, we will have a certain amount of time where emergency policies and recovery policy will go hand in hand. i think the awareness in the parliament of the importance of a common reaction is very strong. i have to say that this common reaction came first of all from a sentiment of solidarity, which is a very good and european sentiment, but also from a common interest: the common interest to preserve the single market, because all we are seeing now shows that our concerns about the fact that this crisis could have uneven consequences among different sectors and member states have been confirmed. so we are seeing that distances are there. again, this common interest is not behind us. this is one of the reasons why we should continue to support the recovery with our fiscal policies in the next period. i think that several interventions mentioned the need to make the best possible use of the recovery and resilience facility. what the commission is committed to is finding the right balance because this is not a memorandum written in brussels that we have to impose on member states. these will be proposals coming from member states and the commission will work to make sure that these proposals are coherent with our common priorities and with countless specific recommendations, and not only linked to tactical or short-term goals. but i repeat that the starting point will be national decisions, national governments and national parliaments. several honourable members rightly say that we need stronger coordination, but we all know — and you know better than me — that it’s always necessary to find the right balance between the demand for stronger coordination and the demand to preserve a national role. we are not a federal state. this could be a good thing or a bad thing, according to political and cultural points of view, but the fact is that we are not. so we have some sectors and some areas where the coordination is easier and others where it is more difficult. i think on this occasion we should go further in coordination, especially on health care safety measures, border coordination and the whole situation concerning travel, which is really very difficult among member states. but of course this is an effort that the commission can easily make, if member states allow us. i appreciate the fact that i understand parliament is strongly advocating for this stronger coordination. several honourable members took the floor on social issues and our social model. i think that overall in this crisis our social model showed its difficulties, but also its strengths. i think we can be proud of our social model if we compare the social consequences of this crisis in other parts of the world where we don’t have social services or even where we have authoritarian models in government. in my view, the european social model confirms its strength, but of course we have to reinforce it. we have to confirm the commitment to make the social pillar crucial in our semester. we have to be aware that the crisis is increasing social inequalities and that we have winners and losers. we have winners from this crisis, not only rich people in general, but also sectors of our global economy. for example, the digital global platforms are winners in this crisis. we will speak about this when we speak about digital taxation, own resources, etc. but, for sure, they are the winners in this crisis and other sectors that were mentioned here — culture, entertainment, travel, tourism, smes, and i am sure that i am forgetting something — are the losers in this crisis. this means that they will need support for a longer time than others. we can’t change and phase out the support in these sectors too soon. finally, i think that there is broad consensus on the fact that our goal, the goal of this unprecedented common response, is not only to revive our economies and go back to where we were at the end of 2019. we are all aware of the difficulties and some of them were mentioned here. climate transition is not easy in many countries, but we are also aware of the tremendous responsibility that we have during this crisis to seize the opportunity to change our societies and our economies for the better.
in writing. the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic has huge economic, social and geopolitical implications. i am pleased that the commission has decided to give maximum budgetary flexibility and to provide member states with support on an unprecedented scale. the increased coordination to avoid new bottlenecks in the internal market and in health is another positive development. however, in recent days, the situation in europe has deteriorated again. further tightening of social and economic life is being introduced. therefore, rapid action is necessary to prevent further effects of the pandemic. i therefore call on the representatives of the commission, the parliament and the council to reach agreement on the eu's multiannual budget as soon as possible and to follow the principles of cooperation, solidarity and flexibility. support for smes is crucial to prevent mass redundancies and rising unemployment, as any fluctuations in this area affect the entire internal market. by finalising the budget negotiations, we will be able to support our european businesses before it is too late.
in writing. many member states are facing a second wave of covid-19. at the moment, 60 million europeans are at risk of losing their jobs. so far europe has avoided the mass unemployment that has struck elsewhere. this is largely due to schemes to reduce working hours (such as the sure instrument) used by some 45 million people, which are intended to help people pay rent or meet basic needs. but we also have to think about the future of our jobs. the health crisis has made it clear that we need to do more to promote quality jobs and decent working conditions, in line with the sdgs and the european pillar of social rights. our employees deserve a fair wage and a safe and healthy work environment. this requires a strong involvement of the social partners. i therefore ask the commission and the member states to maintain the current measures to protect employment until a real recovery has started, to launch a proposal for a permanent european unemployment reinsurance scheme and a european framework for fair minimum wages. as the epp's shadow rapporteur, i am also in favour of a substantial increase in the budget for the european globalisation adjustment fund.
mr president, the european commission has adopted an ambitious green deal for europe. the european parliament voted, just 15 days ago, the climate law which provides for a 60% reduction in our emissions by 2030. and yet we are stuck in texts that date back to the 1990s that do not incorporate the climate emergency. we must stop procrastinating and get out of the energy charter treaty, which provides for the protection of investments in fossil fuels and the mechanism for settling disputes between investors and states, which also provides for a supremacy clause, so that this text is superior to any later text, such as the paris agreement, and which also provides for unanimity in decisions between 50 members. just over 50 members who cannot agree on sustainability issues. this is particularly problematic with a country like japan, with whom we have concluded a trade agreement and negotiated sustainable development chapters, which should allow us to have common positions on the international stage. so, commissioner, after two rounds of negotiations with no end in sight and given the hostility to the modernisation of this treaty, what is the union's plan b to get out of it and to protect itself from the effects of the treaty?
the fact that we reached agreement yesterday on the multiannual budget and the recovery plan is not only good news in these difficult times, but is indeed historic. the agreement should enable us to rebuild europe after the covid19 crisis and make the eu even better to better secure the future of our citizens and businesses. in short, the agreement means more money for research and development, more money for european health challenges and better protection of the rule of law. the budget for research and development will be increased substantially by eur 4 billion. this is good for europe and for the member states, including belgium and in particular the belgian province of flanders. the funds are allocated according to the principle of excellence and flemish research institutions and companies generally participate with great success in these calls for projects: some 2,6% of european r & d funds are channelled to flanders. the european budget for health challenges will also be tripled. this will be used for the provision of medical supplies and for cross-border teams of health workers. the current crisis has shown that european solidarity can indeed save lives. however, the principle 'for what, belongs to what' applies: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this is how we protect the democratic values of europe. my compliments to everyone who made this agreement possible.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to welcome the political agreement reached on the multiannual financial framework and the recovery plan, as well as the exceptional work of our negotiating team. the european parliament has managed to move the council's lines: this is a first, this is a real victory and we must welcome it. by voting on our 2021 budget proposal, we are responding concretely to the concerns of european citizens who face every day an unprecedented, long-term health and economic crisis, with the economy contracting by more than 7% this year. we cannot disappoint them with european programmes that have been scrapped when they have not yet recovered from the first wave of this crisis and are already facing the second. when member states take decisions on major health policy decisions, the transfer of these competences must go hand in hand with adequate financial and human resources. that is why the european parliament has been advocating for months for an ambitious budget. we are calling for a substantial additional allocation for the 2021 budget to finance the european union's flagship programmes: erasmus+, eu4health, horizon europe and investeu. we want to be able to make citizens understand that european solidarity is not just slogans, that european values are not empty words, that only real solidarity from 2021 onwards will ensure the financing of structural reforms and the effectiveness of the union's policies. our budget, which corresponds to the first year of the multiannual financial framework, must be able to support a four-year sustainable and resilient recovery facility. the council has chosen an arithmetical approach to the amounts proposed by the commission for 2021 for several programmes, based on the position of the european council and without any real political priorities. the cuts in the union's flagship programmes, which are clearly oriented towards the future, such as the climate and digital transition, health, research and youth and culture, are already undermining the very foundations of this recovery. in these particularly difficult times for entrepreneurship, youth, the hospital sector and civil society, europe offers a way out of the crisis, through collective and solidarity projects. only a common political will has enabled us to reach an ambitious, fair and balanced political agreement on the next multiannual financial framework. the principle of fair return is outdated. the conciliation which will open on 17 november is crucial and it is equally crucial to make the most of it: 21 days of conciliation in a constructive and open spirit so that, in terms of frank and honest exchanges, we can meet the legitimate expectations of european citizens as from 2021. we must learn from this major crisis and build the foundations of european sovereignty in health, digital, industrial and even security, so as to be able to deal with current and future challenges by generating european decisions that bring sustainable investment and human cooperation to the service of all european citizens. ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget is also the budget of our institution, the european parliament, and indeed of the other institutions. it is clear that we cannot build policies for the future without institutions that are operational, efficient, modern, environmentally friendly and interactive and therefore capable of functioning even in the event of force majeure. that is why, with my colleagues from the five main political groups, we decided to restore the council's cuts, at the request of the institutions, when they were justified, because here too the council made proposals for horizontal and systematic cuts, without taking account of the specificities of the institutions. such an approach would have undermined their functioning and, in the same spirit, would have diminished the vital contribution they make to the proper functioning of the union. and based on that same approach, we restored the headcount table. finally, with regard to the commission's proposed cuts, we considered in a limited number of cases that it was necessary to restore the estimates of these institutions. and i will conclude, madam president, by recalling that a euro spent at the level of the european budget saves far more than a euro in our various capitals, on the basis of the principle of budgetary subsidiarity. member states must not regard payments to the european union as expenditure but rather as investments in a globalised world, where europe must be able to deal on an equal footing with china, russia and the united states, thanks to a european autonomy which is essential to defend the interests of our citizens and future generations.
in writing. we envision a strong health framework for the european union. the ambitious, promising new programme, eu4health, should not be left as a covid-19 response plan alone, but as a master plan to tackle all health challenges. as the president of the commission has very rightly pointed out, we are not going to stop at anything to save lives. at the same time, we stress that we will not stop until the eu has established a strong health system framework that will preventatively save the lives of european citizens, ensure high levels of health and extend to all levels, to all member states and to every european citizen. a single health plan is needed, capable and effective of addressing all health risks, with a focus on prevention. planning to manage health issues is not just about the current coronavirus pandemic, but we care about all health challenges and problems, such as preventing and treating cancer and other serious diseases. if we fail to arm the eu with a strong and unified health system, then we will be weakened and fail to deliver on a key priority for all european citizens.
in writing. a stronger european union in healthcare is a real game changer. for the first time in history, europe is making such a commitment to health care. we must therefore seize this moment and put the right emphasis on making the different health systems of the member states resilient and future-oriented. i think that this text rightly emphasizes: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. i also support the call for additional investment, health in all policy areas and a strengthened role for the european medicines agency and the european centre for disease prevention and control. in addition, healthcare should be focused on innovation, digitalisation and digital literacy. as the epp coordinator of the special committee on cancer, i am also very pleased that there is an explicit commitment to the fight against cancer and to alignment with europe's beating cancer plan. finally, there is also a strong emphasis on tackling drug shortages, which will be a major challenge in the coming years. i am convinced that with the provisionally agreed 5.1 billion euros, we can make our health care system stronger and more resilient and ready for the future.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, you have signed very large contracts with the pharmaceutical industry, and when european citizens ask you to see these contracts, you reply that they can go elsewhere, that you are not accountable. that doesn't sound right. so i did a little investigating myself. i went to look first, and i saw that the multinational pharmaceutical companies are selling their products very high and that you, in fact, you say you are negotiating but you pay exactly what they ask. gilead asks for a billion, you give a billion, pfizer asks for five billion, you give five billion. this is not negotiating, this is prostration. secondly, i also saw that you don't know exactly what you're buying. because we had a press release from pfizer about this vaccine, pfizer saying "our vaccine is 90 percent effective". all right, that gives hope, the stock market is booming. while the ceo of pfizer is selling his shares, you're buying 300 million doses. but we don't know what this "efficiency" means. does that mean you're protected from mild symptoms but also from serious illness? it's not said. does this mean that only young people are protected and not the elderly? these are all questions we want answered. and finally, with all this money being spent, we don't know if there will be a vaccine for everyone. there may be people who won't have access to this vaccine. so, honestly, i think it's time to start holding citizens accountable, stop protecting big pharma and please release these contracts now.
in writing. either the workers and the people will pay for this green deal, or the millionaires and the big multinationals. and i warn you, if you are going to use the revision of the directive on energy taxation, planned for 2021, to raise the price people pay for their energy, you will face a yellow vest movement again and not only in france. the idea of a financial transaction tax is important, however. i'm with her. let's take a look at the financial markets. but this tax alone will not be enough to guarantee a just climate transition. in order for the workers not to have to pay for this green pact, we need a real tax on capital, like the millionaire tax that we as the genuine left are proposing. nor can we imagine a social transition without putting an end to the tax havens which you tolerate inside and outside the european union! and what are you waiting for to guarantee an effective minimum rate of 25% for the taxation of european multinationals? you see, i... there is really no reason to charge workers. there are alternatives. they're here. take action now!
in writing. environmental and budgetary issues dominate much of the agenda of our plenary session. and we need votes that are up to the challenge. that is why, in the context of the vote on the report on 'the investment plan for a sustainable europe - financing the european green deal' launched by the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, i will support the following provisions which i believe have become imperatives today: first, that investments made under the european recovery plan respect the principle 'first, do no harm' (to ensure that the eu meets its commitments under the paris agreement) and, second, that the union's multiannual financial framework/budget does not support or fund activities that could harm climate and environmental objectives. i also support the commission's assessment and identification of activities which significantly impair environmental sustainability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the most efficient use of products and services is the way to ensure sustainable development. efficient resource management and a commitment to the circular economy will help bring us closer to the goal of carbon neutrality. it is therefore imperative that a comprehensive and coherent strategy be developed, one based on scientific research, which increases the durability, reuse and repair of products. this is also an approach which will help to protect the interests of consumers. however, it is important that it does not result in undesirable consequences such as increased bureaucratic burden and loss of jobs, growth and competitiveness of companies. we must make this transition with the companies and never on their side. i would also like to draw attention to the need to maintain the high standards in public procurement, particularly in the criteria of sustainability and the durability of products. i ask the european commission for the courage, the political ambition, to implement these measures for the good of our economy, our consumers and society.
mr president, this report is committed to promoting a more sustainable single market for producers and consumers by applying the principles of the green deal in a pragmatic, consensual, realistic but firm and decisive way. we are thus laying the foundations for healthy and responsible economic and trade relations which are the first condition for the transition to a circular economy. this proposal therefore sends a clear, firm and consistent message to the commission, the council, the member states, industry, services and consumers. the transition from linear to circular starts with the design of products themselves, with the possibility they offer to be reused and to last over time. it continues the guarantees we offer users to access accessible, quality and non-monopoly spare parts and repair processes, extends that philosophy to upgrades in the digital realm and ends premature or planned obsolescence. this commitment requires commercial transparency and implies traceability. both qualities should enable us to see the origin and the expected durability of a product, from the origin of the materials from which it is made to the possible destination of the same at the end of its useful life. and on that story must be based product assurance, sound and reliable trade relations and sustainable development. at the beginning of the 20th century, when the world seemed to have no limits, in many cities of my country you could find shops called "the three beans": good, nice and cheap. this report is committed to the three r's: resistant, repairable and reusable. encouraging this form of doing things to be binding does not harm any manufacturer who bases his success on honesty, innovation and quality.
mr president, the pandemic we are all facing together has forced us to think about the future shape of our european single market. we must always have in mind first and foremost the interests of citizens as consumers and also the interests of small businesses, which account for up to two thirds of jobs. i would like to highlight three areas of this report that i consider important: digitalisation, public procurement and simplification. the first area: digitization. in digital technologies, which also offer new possibilities for transparency, i welcome the initiative of the so-called 'digital product passport' to improve traceability and access to information on the conditions of production, shelf life, composition, reuse or repair of a product. i would stress, however, that this development must take account of the needs of small firms, which are the largest employers. in the second area, public procurement, which accounts for up to 16% of european gdp, we should send a clear signal for reliable sustainability criteria. i believe that the most important thing is to shorten the supply chain and to take account of the needs of small firms, which are often discriminated against in public procurement today and therefore need to be better positioned. as regards simplification, i would like to stress the need for it, and i regard the common connector for electronic mobile devices as a typical example. it is important that the european commission implements our initiative and the european parliament's decision on the common terminal of connectors. this will not only contribute to the simplification of the equipment, but also to better recyclability and to meeting environmental objectives. but we must always strike a balance between consumer protection and the sustainability of the manufacturers' capabilities. therefore, on the other hand, i would like to draw attention to the following: there is no need to tighten the requirements in the area of spare parts. i believe that forcing companies to produce and store large quantities of spare parts for which there is not necessarily demand would not only harm the environment but also the competitiveness of our companies in the union. the second area i want to highlight is the service sector. it has a very important role to play in sustainability. we need to complete the internal market in services as soon as possible, as this can make a decisive contribution to a sustainable internal market from which consumers can benefit. last but not least, i want to emphasize the area of standards. for digital technologies in particular, we need to put in place standards and protocols to improve interoperability and data sharing between firms, investors and institutions, which will undoubtedly bring further development opportunities. in this area too, we need to invest much more in research into new technologies within our budget. i believe that, while maintaining these principles, our common market will continue to be a driver of prosperity for our citizens.
mr president, thank you, commissioner, and thank you also to the rapporteur for the excellent work that has been done. the sustainability of products, the elimination of planned obsolescence, is first and foremost a matter of consumer protection, of course, of environmental and climate protection, but also of protection of production, of our economy and of employment. we must put an end to this reality, which is a form of deception towards consumers, this is at least how it is perceived, to say the least. we also need to put an end to all the products that end up in our landfills and clutter them up every day. we must also act immediately on products which are currently being marketed in europe, and i am thinking in particular of chinese products. the court of auditors noted in one of its last reports the extent to which chinese products marketed in the european union could represent a form of danger. some reports mention one in two products marketed in europe. this issue of product control is obviously essential, and i am linking it to a vote which will take place tomorrow, i think, on product safety in this area, which is obviously an extremely important issue. i mean, why? because yes, we will have to give our companies, especially the smaller and medium-sized ones, a very short period of time to adapt and also to produce mandatory labelling in this area in order to guarantee consumers all the necessary transparency. it is necessary to give ourselves a little time, but the sooner we start, the sooner we can accompany them, help and support them. but i would also like to stress that we must now see, because this is lacking today, how we are going to control what enters our european territory so that these sustainability standards that are going to be raised are respected by everyone, and in particular by the largest workshop in the world today, china, whether in relation to prohibitions, whether in relation to controls or the strengthening of them, even if the member states are partly responsible, whether also in relation to what was mentioned by the president of the commission, namely customs duties raised, taxation at our borders, carbon taxation or, in any case, non-respect of sustainability and products.
the president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a great many changes which are having an effect on our consumption patterns. the covid-19 crisis, digitalisation and the green transition are some examples. consumers want tailored rules that meet their needs. they need to be empowered to contribute to the green transition. this means that consumers need to be better informed and that there is a right to redress that facilitates the transition to a circular economy. artificial ageing must also be tackled. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. it is important that the new rules provide an incentive for consumers to make sustainable choices. citizens also want to enjoy the same high level of protection online. consumers are increasingly buying products and services online. in this context, we see an increase in illegal activities such as online fraud, the dissemination of false information and certain forms of profiling. these practices affect the freedom of choice of consumers and have no place in europe. in addition, there are specific groups of consumers with specific needs. children, people with limited digital literacy, families in difficult financial situations are some examples of this. they ask for tailor-made protection. the covid-19 crisis also exposed some gaps in european consumer law. let us learn from this and take this lesson into the future. finally, we must not forget to ensure a level playing field in the implementation of measures. the new consumer agenda is ambitious but necessary. consumer choice plays a crucial role in the post-covid-19 recovery, the green and digital transformation. we must therefore build a high-quality consumer protection system for the future, and i am sure that you will succeed in doing so, commissioner.
member of the commission. – madam president, i should like to thank ms walsmann very much. i’m delighted you mentioned christmas, because a lot of us have fears around christmas, but it’s nice to look on it as an opportunity, and of course when we’re buying gifts to think of safety. so thank you for your good work on this. it’s both important and timely. buying a safe product is the utmost important thing – it protects consumers and also the functioning of the single market, and all products sold on the market should be safe, but you have raised a number of very important issues when it comes to non-food products. most of these issues correspond with the main objectives of the revision of the general product safety directive, which is planned for the second quarter of next year. and this includes the safety of consumer products, linked, as you said, to new technologies, like connected products or products powered by artificial intelligence and the need to address the growth in online sales. these issues need to be tackled from different angles and we’ll carry out the revision of the general product safety directive in conjunction with other initiatives such as the digital services act, the revision of the machinery directive and initiatives on artificial intelligence. the commission is also working on delegated acts under the radio equipment directive. in your report, you underline the importance of the recently adopted regulation on market surveillance and compliance. this new regulation is a major step forward for the 70 pieces of harmonised product legislation, many of them on product safety, such as the low voltage directive and the toy safety directive. it will provide better protection for consumers, it will greatly help national inspectors, and the implementation of this regulation is ongoing. the commission will also support the eu product compliance network, providing funding from the single market programme, and we thank parliament for emphasising the importance of market surveillance in this programme. this report also calls on the commission to encourage more online marketplaces to join the product safety pledge. just two weeks ago, two new online marketplaces joined the pledge, which brings the total number of signatories to nine major online actors. the report also raises issues linked to ineffective recalls of dangerous products from consumers, and i think this is an area of deep concern. most consumers are not sometimes even aware that they own a recalled product and many others continue to use dangerous products despite seeing a recall notice. i think that is deeply concerning but important to stress. we are currently working on developing guidance on product recalls and we will also look at this issue during the revision of the general product safety directive. so thank you for this opportunity this evening, for your work and i look forward to tomorrow’s vote.
the case is closed. the amendments will be voted on tomorrow, 24 november 2020, and the final vote will be delivered on wednesday, 25 november 2020. the same applies to the previous ferber report on financial instruments markets. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. i am very pleased about this debate today. the development of the european system on product safety is a demonstration of the essential role played by the european union: to protect our citizens, our consumers, from the dangers of the modern world. at the same time, the set of rules established by the union is also a demonstration of our capacity to exert a beneficial influence: products meeting the standards of the european union are also found on the markets of third countries. however, the stakes remain high. these may be new developments such as the development of new chemicals, the increasing importance of digital technology, software and artificial intelligence. they can be related to crime as the danger of counterfeit products not meeting standards. or they may be linked to the increasing division and diversification of supply chains. finally, it is essential to strengthen controls at the union's borders on imported products, especially from china, which is still the country of origin of more than half of the products reported in the european rapex system.
mr president, this report is a breath of centralism. this report is contrary to subsidiarity, it is contrary to unity in diversity. transnational lists as well. they will also damage public confidence: you don't know these people, you can't follow them for five years, and you don't speak the language of these people. and the election of the president of the commission on these transnational lists paves the way for a presidential regime. this is contrary to the foundations of the partnership which is the european union. 'unity in diversity' is the motto. centralism and gigantism are the opposite. you do not have to be a centralist to believe in the added value of the european union, based on the values of the enlightenment.
for the greens/efa group mr president, you know that we greens are intransigent when it comes to defining the challenges of european trade policy, and that is because, along with agricultural policy, trade policy is probably the area where the frictions with the european green deal are the most important and where the prevailing mindset is still that of the 20th century, when the objectives of sustainable development and the paris climate agreement did not exist. in recent years, the leitmotif seems to have been 'everything but china' and this has made us lose sight of the big societal issues. it is therefore time for a decisive change in european trade policy. this is what the european parliament is asking for: that trade policy contribute to the green and just transition. we therefore support this text, which can be improved but is the result of a compromise, and i thank my colleagues for the openness they have shown in putting the european parliament on the path to ambition and in giving the european commission the necessary input in defining the union's trade strategy for the next five years. what are we asking for? first, to ensure that all free trade agreements are compatible with the green deal, including by revising existing agreements already negotiated and in progress. second, to ensure that the sustainable development provisions are binding and that non-compliance by a partner is subject to sanctions. then, adopt a binding legislative framework on business due diligence throughout the supply chain for eu and foreign companies that are active within the single market. therefore, prohibit the market access of products resulting from forced labour and child labour. this would be a strong signal from the european union in the context of the international year for the elimination of child labour in 2021. this is also a recommendation echoed in the news revealed by the guardian, which shows that china, in addition to the uyghurs, uses north korean forced laborers to produce personal protective equipment for european countries in particular. finally, mr commissioner, involving civil society in the implementation of free trade agreements is essential to ensure compliance with these provisions. this is the role of the domestic advisory groups, whose recommendations often seem to be ignored by the european commission. it would therefore be an honour for the european parliament to hear at least once a year the members of these groups, whose report would undoubtedly help to ensure that our free trade agreements are in line with the green deal and contribute to a fairer, more equitable and more respectful of the planet globalisation.
on behalf of the ecr group. president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has taught us that we must protect our citizens better by providing sufficient supplies of life-saving equipment and diversifying supply lines where necessary. we must also think about bringing some production back to the european union. but we must not give in to the siren song of protectionism. protecting, yes, but not protectionism. to protect without protectionism. more than ever, the european union must be the champion of open, fair and free trade. i am in favour of strategic autonomy, but it must be an open strategic autonomy, with more free trade agreements, with the union as an actor in the world - a global actor - with investment agreements, of course with the enforcement of a level playing field and the setting of conditions. finally, mr vice-president, i would like to draw your attention to the insidious protectionism within the internal market. you don't have to close your borders to stop goods. more and more companies from small member states are being forced to move their production units to large member states in order to lose them in the retail sector. i've already drawn attention to that. i ask that the commission take action. this undermines confidence in the european union and undermines the single market.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for almost 50 years now turkey has been occupying in a totally illegal and scandalous way part of the territory of a member state of the european union, cyprus. today, erdoğan is taking a new step by calling for the partition of the island outright. this should make us think. the more you try to soften him up, the more he interprets that as weakness, the more docile you are, the more aggressive he is. the european union is paying billions of euros, and they are sending us thousands of migrants. it is granted exorbitant economic advantages, it supports the islamists and multiplies military actions in libya, armenia and sometimes on our doorstep. we must also put an end to the european union's relationship with turkey, which is being totally confiscated by germany. mrs merkel has totally failed. germany is a great economic power, but it lacks the necessary diplomatic and military power. and today it is a failure that has led to our european civilization, our european nations, being flattened by the sultan of ankara. this is an unacceptable situation. the solution is simple: firmness, sanctions, retaliatory measures, calling into question the customs union, european financing, finally ending the accession process, and also calling into question the seat that turkey currently holds in the council of europe and nato. as is often the case in politics, the problem is not the means. we have the means, but we lack the will.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, varosha means old town, varosha is the old town of famagusta, and famagusta belongs to cyprus and the greek cypriots. varosha is illegally occupied by turkey and continues to be illegally held by the islamist dictator erdogan. and when it comes to the crimes of the islamic dictator erdogan, in this room, there are excuses for what a strategic partner he was, how much we should have maintained relations with him, while he bought russian missiles and trained to target nato planes with them. so much for partnership, so much for the brains in some heads. maybe he should use those missiles against a nato plane to make it clear to this room that this man is not an ally of either nato or the european union. and just as we were shamefully silent when the dictator erdogan was waging war against the first christian armenians, transferring islamists, transferring fighters, so we are now continuing to close our eyes. it is not time for declarations, it is time for real action, it is time to stop the funds, it is time to say that erdogan is a dictator and that famagusta is a cypriot city and belongs to a united cyprus and the greek cypriots.
mr president, today we are discussing the criminal actions of turkey against my city of famagusta. the european union must not allow itself to be swayed by the turkish authorities, which are the main actors in all the criminal, illegal, expansionist and aggressive activities from the caucasus to the mediterranean. the european union has not yet imposed any sanctions on that country and continues to tolerate and finance them. as a european citizen, as a fervent defender of the european idea and the european union, as a member of the european parliament, i am deeply ashamed today that the european union has not lived up to its history, that the european union has not respected its principles and values and has shown unacceptable tolerance for the criminal actions of erdoğan and turkey. i would like to know how you feel, mr borrell, how the european commission and the european council feel. you know that yesterday, not today, the customs union between turkey and the european union should have been suspended, the pre-accession aid should have been stopped and the european union's arms industry should have been prohibited from giving even one bullet to turkey, because you know that these bullets will be used against cyprus, greece, syria, libya and our armenian brothers in nagorno-karabakh. sandokhos is my city, it's the city i was born in, it's the city of my dreams, it's where we built our future, it's the city with 36 centuries of greek and christian history and no erdogan, no turkey can really take it away from us. but this city we are talking about today, sandviken and varosha, is also a european city, it is also your city. that is why i call on you to defend our european city, our european legal residents and to force erdoğan to hand over this city to the legal residents. it is unacceptable, and i end, and provocative in 2020 for erdoğan and turkey to deny my inalienable right to return to my ancestral homes, my right to run my churches and to worship the graves of our ancestors. how many more crimes will the european union tolerate before it finally imposes those sanctions, something you avoided mentioning today, mr borrell? (applause from the centre and the right)
mr. president, i was fortunate to be born in sandblast, varosha. we left to escape the turkish troops and it was not our choice. a lot has happened since then. the summit agreement between the two greek cypriot and turkish cypriot leaders was reached to return the city of varos to its legal residents. resolutions 550 and 789 followed, and i remember my mother packing her bags to go back to warsaw, thinking that international law would prevail. it was mocked, as turkey is mocking the entire international community, as turkey continues to mock the european union, and to stop turkey mocking us all, severe sanctions must be imposed on turkey. return of the city of sandcastle to its rightful residents!
mr president, the division of cyprus is not new and dates back a long time. the island was divided already before the turkish invasion in 1973. what is new now is that turkey seems to have given up on a negotiated solution. the decision to open up varosha is a provocation against all those wishing for a peaceful settlement and a reunification of the island. we saw and noted the brave protests from turkish-cypriots against erdogan’s visit to cyprus. and we know very many cypriots on both sides want a solution. i really hope that the un-led negotiations can be restarted and finally, after decades of talks, be guided to a successful conclusion. mr borrell, we must be honest, it is shameful that we still have a divided country in europe. the benefits in economic and political terms of a negotiated solution will benefit all cypriots alike, on both sides. as a belgian, i know that federal structures can be complicated, that compromises demand a lot of political will, but i’m also convinced that cypriots on both sides have the ability to reach an agreement, unify their country, and live and prosper together, with added stability for the whole region. this is what ankara and erdogan should work for, support and focus on.
i fully share the indignation of my colleagues here. perhaps we should admit that the turks and the turkish cypriots, led by erdogan and tatar, are a little too big for the eu. erdogan is playing hard to get resources in the mediterranean and in the area of nagorno-karabakh. tatar is violating all international agreements and has de facto taken varosha, and that is forbidden territory. it's getting out of hand. it's bad to eat pears with government leaders or local politicians who bend all the rules when it suits them. it is not possible to explain why we treat an erdogan or a tatar differently from, say, putin. the eu should press for firm international action against turkey and thus also against the turkish authorities in cyprus. we support the resolution, but we fear that tougher measures against these gentlemen will prove necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. unfortunately, we have to deal once again with turkey's aggressive behaviour here today in the house. the turkish actions in varosia are unacceptable. we in the european parliament stand by cyprus and strongly condemn this further unnecessary provocation by mr erdoğan. the european union has always been concerned about the future of cyprus, and we have always been concerned about the future of cyprus. we must not allow any activity that is not in accordance with these resolutions. the turkish plans for varosia will seriously undermine the prospects for a solution to the cyprus conflict; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they are, in my view, a further destabilising turkish action after the illegal drilling in greek and cypriot waters, the bilateral agreement with libya and the escalation in nagorno-karabakh and syria. the high representative josep borrell continues to deserve our support in his efforts to de-escalate the situation in the region. the solution of all the disputed issues can only be achieved through dialogue between all the parties concerned and on the basis of international law. the european union is not prepared to accept the turkish government's proposal to withdraw from the eu. otherwise, further sanctions will of course remain an option for the european union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
mr president, any change to the status quo at varosha is in violation of the relevant un security council resolutions and we strongly condemn the latest action by turkey. instead of contributing to the agreement, these actions negatively modify the situation on the ground and undermine mutual trust. the only solution is to relaunch negotiations on the reunification of cyprus, under the auspices of the united nations secretary—general, as soon as possible. here we urge turkey to commit concretely to this end. i support the joint text of the resolution and the agreement to focus on varosha. there will be an opportunity for the parliament to address overall relations with turkey in a country—specific report. what has been a strategic partnership for decades is turning more and more into strategic provocation by turkey. therefore, the european union will need to unify its voice and protect its interests and the territorial integrity of its member states.
mr president, after the failure to reach a comprehensive settlement to the cyprus issue in crans-montana in 2017, both sides are moving further and further away. the european union has unfortunately failed to be an objective broker in cyprus. we have lost the momentum and we should not be surprised that we are facing much harder rhetoric these days. today the hotspot is varosha, but if we want to avoid any further unilateral action that could raise tensions on the island, the eu should play an active, constructive and objective role in promoting cooperation and reconciliation between the two sides. turkish cypriot people spoke at the recent elections and stated that all alternatives for settlement should be on the table, because a settlement on the basis of federation has not been possible for 50 years due to greek cypriot unwillingness to share power and prosperity with the turkish cypriot side, as declared by the un secretary-general in the annan plan and his report of may 2004. of course in order to move forward all unilateral activities in the eastern mediterranean must be immediately ceased and replaced by diplomacy, cooperation and dialogue. a regional conference on the matter, which includes the turkish cypriot and greek cypriot sides as co-owners of the hydrocarbon resources around the island, turkey, greece and all the relevant parties should be convened as soon as possible.
madam president, the main issue before us is that this resolution sends two clear messages to turkey about its wrongdoing in varosha. we are asking, first, for the transfer of the area to its legal inhabitants under the temporary administration of the united nations and, secondly, for turkey to withdraw its occupying troops. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to achieve their goals. the withdrawal of the occupying troops will mean the application of the european union's rules of law throughout cyprus, and this will be the basis for a comprehensive solution that will bring peace, security and prosperity and allow all greek and turkish cypriots to have a common future. mr borrell, i am addressing you with enough resolutions and agendas. as long as you persist in the failed policy of appeasement in practice, however much you deny it in words, you are at odds with the principles and values of the european union, but also with the majority of the citizens of the european union, because the european union is not only a trade in arms and trade in things with turkey. our best interests are our values.
the european union, mr president, is happy to play the champion of human rights, but when turkey acts like a rogue state, it is betraying even its own member states. the muslim brotherhood is allowed to occupy half of cyprus, violate greek territorial waters, and seize parts of the mediterranean sea to steal gas and oil. he can blackmail us with a massive influx of refugees, and we will offer him another 5 billion euros. he is allowed to hold election speeches here, to plant mosques en masse and to threaten the french and german navies with impunity during his arms deliveries to the muslim brothers in libya. therefore, stop these naive and expensive accession negotiations. billions of euros have already been squandered on sultan erdoğan. turkey has no right to threaten us. we are not economically dependent on them. turkey has a gdp of about switzerland and their military muscle display is of course ridiculous compared to the european power. but the eu remains lax and cowardly. turkey has always been a threat, by the way. the ottomans have taken millions of europeans as slaves for centuries, up to the beginning of the last century, and they still occupy parts of eastern europe. because remember: constantinople, president, is ours.
madam president, thomas jefferson said: where the press is free and every man able to read, all is safe. but today, in too many countries, including in european countries, the press is not free and journalists therefore are not always safe when they express what they think. hate speech online, intimidation, the spread of disinformation, arbitrary detention and sexual violence towards female journalists all create a shrinking space for free speech. in the past 15 years, close to 200 hundred journalists have been killed. in nine out of ten of these cases, there is no conviction. impunity emboldens perpetrators. it also points to a bigger problem within our societies and justice systems. a free press speaks truth to power. it criticises, satirises and holds us to account. it sheds light where others have sought to shore up corruption, wrongdoing and mistruth in darkness. a free press is one of the great pillars that hold us up and our democracy safe, and by protecting journalists we help protect the path to truth and freedom.
madam president, very few times in the long history of european partnership has the european council been so decisive. this is the last formal council of the german presidency in the run-up to the launch of the portuguese presidency and the future of the european union is at stake and there is no room for hesitation. can we hesitate to implement the solidarity financing of the recovery? can we hesitate in the democratic matrix of our partnership? can we hesitate to preserve a constructive relationship with the united kingdom? can we hesitate to prioritize a multilateral and peer-to-peer partnership with africa? can we hesitate to strengthen the atlantic axis, which must be the aircraft carrier of our global position? can we hesitate on the social agenda, the digital climate agenda that reconnects citizens with the european project? no, we can't. we have to. the next european council will not be just another european council, it will be a council which will go down in history by success, by half-measures or by failure. the world needs you to be a success.
my fellow officers! the december meeting of our leaders could be a turning point. in the light of the epidemic and the weakness of the health systems of many countries, i expect them to devote a great deal of effort to the project of building a health union. this would greatly facilitate the cooperation of member states, increase the efficiency of care and, above all, ensure equal opportunities for citizens in the fight against diseases. the way hungary and poland are dealing with the blocking of urgently needed money is irresponsible, it is completely incomprehensible. at this moment, the union does not need soloists or false saviors like slovenian prime minister janša. what we need is a clear signal to the people that the union is capable of recovering, of getting the economy going and of bringing society back to a state of prosperity. and leaders who have interests beyond respect for accepted standards, values and the rule of law should leave their posts to better men.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i should like first and foremost to thank ms metsola very much. i would also like to sincerely congratulate you on your the election as first vice-president of the european parliament. i would also like to thank all the honourable members of the european parliament for what was indeed a very rich debate. for the commission it was very important to hear your positions on the key political priorities, on these key issues we have to resolve before the end of the year, and i have to say that your message was loud and clear. if you allow me i will start with your comments on brexit, made by all leaders of the political groups and also by mr mcallister, who plays such an important role in our discussions. i think that, as the president said, we are clearly in the endgame. i would like to assure you that the commission, michel barnier and myself, very much appreciate your support and also the clarity of your message and we are ready to be creative, but under no circumstances would we put into question the integrity of the european single market. and the same goes for the respect of the withdrawal agreement, which must be implemented as agreed and on time, and here i would say, deal or no deal. peace and prosperity on the island of ireland is of paramount importance and the respect for the good friday agreement is absolute, and i really would like to assure of that mr kelleher who made this point very clearly. to respond to ms hübner in greater detail, i would like to tell her that if it comes to the withdrawal agreement we are also working around the clock on proper and timely implementation of this agreement. i’m glad that i can pass the good message to the 4.5 million citizens of the european union in the united kingdom concerning their residence rights, because here we are working very hard and i believe that for sure we will solve this issue. i am in frequent contact with mr gove. i would not hide that the negotiations are difficult, but i appreciate the constructive atmosphere and i hope that it will help us to adopt all the necessary decisions of the joint committee which are due before the end of the year. here again, we are also in the endgame and i’m looking for having the joint committee meeting in the next days and i really would like to use it as a decisive one to find a solution on all outstanding issues, especially on the proper implementation of the protocol on ireland and northern ireland, and we are fully aware of the scrutiny requirements by this house, and by the council. the commission president told you this morning that we don’t know if we reach a deal with the united kingdom or not, but i can assure you that we will do our maximum, our utmost, but we will not accept a deal at any price. the next days will be absolutely decisive and therefore i would like to underscore how much we appreciate the european parliament’s readiness to hold an extraordinary session for proper assessment of the eventual deal. we will continue the close cooperation with you and with this house on this issue and we will respect to the fullest the transparency which was established in this process because we know that this is how we can earn your trust which is so important for all of us. many of you address the issue of multiannual financial perspective and the nextgenerationeu instrument, and i would say that an overwhelming majority of honourable members, most of the leaders of the political groups, have been a very clear. in this unprecedented crisis we need the firepower, the novelty of this new financial structure to tackle the crisis, to restart the economy, to save lives and jobs, and to modernise our economies. i can assure you that for the european commission, the rule of law is part of the deal and the european values are not negotiable. and i would like to assure you that the commission will be working relentlessly with you, with the council, with the german presidency, to resolve the situation which is becoming very grave and to make sure that the european union and our citizens will have the necessary financial means to perform our duties as of the beginning of the next year. ms garcía pérez, mr eickhout, ms van brempt and mr picula referred to the importance of vaccination. i have to say that thanks to the advanced negotiations and prepayment to the pharmaceutical companies it’s very important to say that we will have enough doses of vaccines for all of the european union citizens, and we are not thinking about them only because we make sure that we want to develop the mechanisms how the citizens of the world can benefit from this very important vaccine because only in that way would we be able to tackle finally the covid-19 pandemic. if it comes to the vaccination we already asked the member states to develop their vaccination strategies and we also issued a recommendation how we believe they should be developed for the orderly and fair process of the vaccination of our citizens. the next financial perspective and nextgenerationeu will have to focus on achieving our very ambitious green deal on our ambitious goals in the area of the digital agenda. ms keller, ms bonafè and ms cseh were actually highlighting the importance of the climate discussion and climate targets which have to be assessed and we believe positively decided upon by the leaders in the next european council. your calls for clarity is the same what we hear from investors, from business leaders, from our citizens, that we need the clear deal coming from the european council meeting on climate goals to put into the higher gear our efforts to reach the ‘fit for 55’ agenda. the good news is that very soon we will have a strong ally in the united states in fighting climate change. the initial contacts of president-elect biden with commission president ursula von der leyen, but also with other european leaders, and the track record of mr blinken, mr kerry, whom i know personally, is an absolute guarantee that the united states and the european union will work hand-in-hand if it comes to the importance of tackling climate change. and to conclude, a quick response to ms loiseau and mr bellamy who raised the issue of counter-terrorism. on 9 december the commission will present an eu agenda on counter-terrorism. it will set out the eu counter-terrorism strategy for the next four years, setting out new measures to better anticipate, prevent, protect and respond to the terrorist threat. it will include a strategic approach to respond more effectively and with innovative approaches to radicalisation. but we should also not forget that member states need to implement the current framework and that it is high time to agree and adopt the proposal on terrorist content online. in addition to that, in december, the commission plans to adopt a revised mandate for europol, as well as proposals on critical infrastructure and network information security. the commission also included in the next year’s work programme a new agenda on counter-terrorism that will set out the new measures to counter radicalisation and terrorism. madam president, i really would like to thank all the honourable members for a really very rich debate covering all the important topics which are on the european agenda. i very much appreciate the support, the clarity of the message and i really thank you for the floor.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. the most relevant debates were the response to the covid-19 pandemic, climate change, the fight against terrorism and violent extremism, the situation in the eastern mediterranean and relations with turkey, the eu's relations with the countries of the southern neighbourhood, the eu's trade policy. the main issues for the socialists are brexit, the negotiation of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework (mfp) and own resources. the spanish delegation supports parliament's position on the need for a legislative instrument linking the budget to the defence of the rule of law and therefore calls on the council to confirm the agreement reached without changing it. the negotiations on the european recovery fund are of paramount importance to us and we hope to reach an agreement as soon as possible. we also expect an agreement on our future relationship with the united kingdom, and we cannot give up a reliable and stable system of governance, competition rules that protect our internal market and an agreement that safeguards the interests of our fishing industry. and to manage the covid situation we need to move forward in creating a european health union and ensure a transparent plan for vaccine procurement and distribution.
in writing. in april, commission president ursula von der leyen solemnly promised that a vaccine against covid-19 would be a universal, collective good for us. that was important, because everyone, everywhere in the world, deserves protection. so if there's going to be an effective and safe vaccine, we're going to need massive amounts of it. that means that we cannot accept that one company gets a monopoly on it. because no company can produce enough to feed everyone. but since then, you've been backing down more and more. in june, you forgot to mention the promise in your vaccine strategy. then you narrowed your engagement to international initiatives that wanted to share health technologies globally. you then replied that your promise of april was not legally binding and that you had bought up all the vaccine doses very quickly. solidarity pledges were a joke, in other words. today you're going one step further. now, when 100 countries, including india and south africa, want to suspend patents to make the vaccine widely available, including in poorer countries, you actively oppose it. how dare you? this is about people's lives. support the initiative of india and south africa. make the vaccine really good for a global audience.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, you want to build a pharmaceutical strategy for europe, which aims to guarantee the quality and safety of medicines. but it is precisely the same reason that led to the creation, 16 years ago, of the european medicines agency, which already sets out community procedures for the authorisation, supervision and pharmacovigilance of medicines for human and veterinary use. you add that you want to improve and speed up access to medicines for patients at affordable prices and in a safe manner. but how are you going to get the support of mps, almost all of whose groups rejected a report on access to medicines that i brought in 2016 and that was written in exactly the same terms? you also say that we must support innovation in the pharmaceutical industry, that is obvious, but first we must restore the rules of fair competition which no longer encourage our large groups to outsource 80% of the active ingredients of generics to china or india. the covid crisis was only the reveal of an untenable and long-standing situation that has had the effect of multiplying the shortage of medicines in france by 20 in less than 10 years. and that's a direct result of your globalist policies. to control stocks, you are calling for even more europe, through europe of health, by expanding the powers of the european medicines agency, in particular through new technologies, and by creating an interconnected health system. but who can guarantee that this data will not be immediately retrieved by insurance companies or by foreign providers of digital services? you also address the fight against cancer. although a special committee has just been set up, we have been waiting since a resolution in 2016 for the paediatric regulation to be revised in terms of the fight against childhood cancer. you are right to want to accelerate research and innovation through the horizon europe, artificial intelligence and digitisation. but how can you ensure that the results and publications are up to date, when one year after the launch of covid research funding, we still have no actionable feedback to reorient states in their health strategy? so once again, in the face of an a priori acceptable project and the challenges ahead, you are overstepping your bounds and, in the case of what is only one therapeutic option among others, you are setting up a genuine tool for shaping the european health care sector, which will take away all autonomy from the member states in their regulatory management. that is why, instead of building this fragile system, we propose cooperation between states that makes it possible to use the tools that already exist. the aim is to enable the relocation of generic production to europe and france, to ensure that all stages of production are carried out locally, in sufficient quantities and production, to ensure good manufacturing practices, to ensure transparency of stocks, to ensure tracing and labelling of boxes at all stages, to finally put an end to the policy of quotas and to limit, as far as possible, parallel trade, to make regulations more flexible, to allow a policy of prices and costs which stabilises margins, and thus markets, and ultimately to save our national systems.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, although i do not do this very often, let me first commend the commission. personally, i welcome the fact that one of the four main objectives is to ensure that patients have access to affordable medicines and to address the gaps in treatment needs for children and patients with rare diseases. we need this revision as much as we can, and i have been calling for it in the european parliament for six years. i therefore strongly hope that the review will include the joint procurement of medicines for rare diseases at the level of the european union as a whole, because in recent months it has been shown that joint procurement is possible when the commission wants it to be possible, and i see no reason why this should not be the case for medicines for rare diseases. however, i would expect the new strategy to include a reference to patent law at the level of the world health organization, because as we've found, a lot of the current rules of global trade are simply not helping us solve any major health crisis. i would therefore like to call again on both the commission and the world health organisation to be as active as possible in tackling this problem in the fair pricing forum. if we don't make a significant change in this regulation, very little will improve access to medicines and their prices, and the pharmaceutical companies will continue to make money and the public will be forced to pay. colleagues, i am so far positive about the proposal, but i see a lot of white space. however, we have a lot of work to do, and i look forward to it.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, if the coronavirus crisis has taught us anything, it is that the eu must play a stronger role in such a health crisis, and that we must make our system resilient and crisis-resistant. the new pharmaceutical strategy is inherently linked to this. equal access for every patient to innovative medicines and treatments is often a utopia. that is why this stronger cooperation between member states is so important for more correct pricing and reimbursement. boosting innovation in the sector: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of medicines, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. but also, madam commissioner, with the necessary transparency, because artificially keeping prices high is unacceptable. we are strengthening the supply chain by building up strategic reserves, by reducing our dependence on third countries to a minimum and by investing in european production. let's get back in that cockpit as world leaders. the vaccination strategy shows that strong european cooperation pays off. so yes, the eu needs to be given a stronger role in the global health context. it is time to make the most of the scale of the union in the interests of equal access for all patients. we need to give patients perspective, a hopeful horizon. i congratulate you, commissioner, on your ambitious plan and we look forward to the further development of the concrete initiatives. we as the epp will be cooperating constructively on this.
mr president, commissioner, the covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the urgency of strengthening our health systems and also our over-reliance, our over-reliance, on chinese and indian drug manufacturers. this includes commonly used antibiotics such as amoxicillin, painkillers such as aspirin or paracetamol, and specialties for thyroid disorders. desperate patients come to us every day. and you mentioned, commissioner, medicines for paediatric cancers and for rare diseases. in my country, one in five belgians no longer has access to the medicine he needs. it's not something that can be tolerated. the pharmaceutical strategy presented yesterday partially addresses the problems. you announce that by 2022 the pharmaceutical legislation will be reformed. it must be based on transparency in the supply chain and the obligation on manufacturers to notify as soon as possible of shortages or even withdrawals of medicinal products. shortage, the word is out. you use it 16 times in the text and 13 times the word production, which really emphasizes the urgency. however, there is some research into concrete proposals for the building up of stocks of essential medicines at european level. why wait and discuss the production of active substances for two years? what incentives do you intend to use - fiscal, financial or otherwise - to persuade manufacturers to relocate? because that's the whole point of the problem: relocating to ensure access while keeping prices in check. one thing is certain, and i conclude, mr president, and you have also said it, madam commissioner, that europe in health has taken a giant step forward this year. the european parliament will stand with you in the months ahead for a stronger europe in the best interests of patients.
mr president, commissioner, we have seen the power of the big pharmaceutical industries and big pharma, which today decide what to produce and at what price to sell. people don't trust you. you yourself were scammed into signing a contract with gilead for a billion euros, allegedly for a covid drug. but by the time you announced this in october, gilead had already known for two weeks that it was not really working. what a rip-off! so the real question we should be asking is how do we free ourselves today from the grip, the hold of the big multinational pharmaceutical companies on our lives and on our health. and that question, no bowl, you've kind of forgotten about in your pharmaceutical strategy. so if you have a pencil, i'm going to suggest two measures. firstly, let us not leave control of the vaccine in the hands of multinational pharmaceutical companies, but let us bring the vaccine under public control and, secondly, we need a public pharmaceutical hub in europe so that we are no longer dependent on the big multinationals for the production of essential medicines.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, this lobster agreement comes at a good time, not only for the fishermen of maine in the united states and other countries, but also because of its political importance. it is time to put four years of friction, four years of conflict, four years of threats behind us. i think, mr vice-president, that we should work towards a renewed partnership with the united states: not just resolve the conflicts the unilateral measures for aluminium and steel, the boeing/airbus issue, the carbon correction mechanism at the border but look ahead, sit down together. i know that this new president may also be taking things too far to reach a comprehensive trade agreement - president biden is also in favour of the buy american slogan - but i think and hope that you will take up the juncker/trump agreement, which your predecessor also worked on, and at least reach a small agreement. we must also join hands on multilateralism, save the wto, make the wto operational, modernise and reform it. i ask you: the european union must be able to work with the united states on multilateralism, on transatlantic partnership on the basis of equality, and wherever possible, to set the global standard. and tell your american friends, tell mr. biden, that in this new geopolitical world order, america can only be back together with its allies, together with the european union.
madam president, i would like to raise a point of order under rule 39, given that under rule 144 it was not possible to raise this urgent matter. in the last couple of days, there have been alarming reports that eu citizen ahmad reza jalali has been transferred to solitary confinement by the iranian authorities in preparation for his execution in the coming week. this deserves the urgent and utmost attention of the european union. i call upon the european parliament president, on high representative borrell and eu foreign ministers to urge the iranian authorities to review this decision, not to execute doctor jalali, and to agree to his release. if iran does not agree to this, then the eu must look to sanctions. this is very urgent.
author. – mr president, the situation in ethiopia is urgent. the country’s grip on peace is slipping with every passing day. its leader, abiy ahmed, has a nobel peace prize but is refusing to pursue peace in his own country. i believe he should give that back. he has been a wolf in sheep’s clothing; a reformer turned authoritarian. in the tigray region, hundreds are already dead, with ethnic targeted violence and violations of human rights. buildings and homes are shelled and roads are blocked to humanitarian assistance. there are no telecoms, no internet or electricity and millions face the threat of famine in a country that once was a stabilising factor, an influence in a fragile region and a pivotal force in the fight against the spread of islamic terrorism. tens of thousands of ethiopians now cross the border to eastern sudan to seek safety. progress and development in ethiopia was hard won. we must do all we can to help prevent that progress from being lost forever. a looming civil war could destabilise the whole region and trigger another humanitarian crisis that could reach the shores of europe. we must continue to call for international mediation and a ceasefire, as you have done this week, mr borrell, but i would also stress that rarely does a crocodile yield to the roar of a toothless tiger. the eu provides large amounts of development assistance to ethiopia and we should consider using this, and all available leverages, to help de—escalate the conflict. time is running out to salvage the situation and forge a path to free, fair and transparent elections and ultimately to democracy. nothing short of our most determined and resolute effort is needed.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today i am satisfied. the commission is pleased to know that european values have not been compromised in order to get poland and hungary's veto over the next multiannual financial framework lifted. it is also satisfactory to see that all the union institutions have upheld the european values of solidarity and responsibility. finally, it is satisfactory to see that all these months spent negotiating the first budget of the new budgetary cycle will enable the union to start on 1 january in the best possible conditions to ensure recovery. this is the victory of a united european parliament. it is the victory of a europe that acts, that listens to its citizens and that does not want to leave anyone behind. as i have said on many occasions, the budget is much more than numbers: it is a matter of political choices. these are not expenditure: they are investments in projects and programmes that serve the citizens, in the service of a greener, more social, fairer europe, concerned about sustainable economic development. we have therefore decided, in this negotiation, to strengthen some of the flagship programmes such as health, youth, digital and its 'artificial intelligence' component, justice and the fight against violence against women, the environment and climate issues, transport infrastructure and research. we also paid particular attention to the sectors most affected by the crisis, such as smes and tourism, in order to safeguard workers and promote the creation of sustainable jobs. we have called for a strong and operational european public prosecutor's office, capable of fully carrying out its tasks of protecting the european budget. we also wanted to, in these hectic times, support the younger generation, because the best investment we can make to avoid a covid-19 generation is to invest in our youth. the european budget 2021 also includes the budget of our institutions the parliament and the other european institutions. in this respect, it balances the savings from our health crisis-disrupted way of operating with the need to make our institutions function effectively. ladies and gentlemen, our institutions have shown courage, preferring creativity and ingenuity to business as usual for a massive, sustainable recovery. europe will be there, mobilizing substantial investments as early as next year to meet the most urgent economic and social needs, stimulate a sustainable recovery that respects the climate and the environment, and safeguard and create jobs.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the present resolutions highlight some problems in the protection of this diversity, including the definition of 'national minority'. the experience of my own country, belgium, which is home to two peoples, shows that the concept of 'national minority' is not a mere numerical notion referring to population. this purely mathematical element is qualified by the fact that a dominant position is being occupied or not. the institutional balance of power within the belgian federal government and the constitutional framework for language legislation in belgium means that the two major communities co-dominate. the dutch and french-speaking peoples cannot be considered a national minority within the meaning of the council of europe framework convention for the protection of national minorities, either in the whole or in part of the territory of belgium. the smaller german-speaking community can be considered as such if it so wishes. the proposals for legal acts that the commission may submit following the european citizens' initiative minority safepack should take into account that the case of the dutch and french-speaking people in belgium falls outside the scope of protection rules for traditional national minorities.
mr president, the values of respect for human dignity, freedom and democracy, as well as the rights and freedoms of national minorities, are undoubtedly just some of the fundamental values of the european union. the european citizens' initiative minority safepack can be an instrument to help protect the rights of national minorities, but any policy approach, especially at european level, must have a well-founded legal basis. according to the european union treaties, the protection of persons belonging to national minorities is part of the political and constitutional structure of each state, which is obliged to adopt national legislation to this effect. there is thus no legal basis in the treaties to allow the european commission to adopt legislative acts which may concern the rights of persons belonging to national minorities. i urge all relevant actors to follow the good examples of good practice in romania, where 17 national minorities have legal representation in parliament under special conditions, without meeting the electoral threshold.
mr. president, hilaria feels safer in the doctor's office if she's treated in her native language. aurelio too, when they explain a problem with his pension. that language was forbidden for half their lives. today, the basque language is official in the basque country, but so many years of persecution left their mark. that's why hilaria and aurelio, my parents, myself, we can't always use our language, sometimes or where we miss it most. that's why we need to protect our right to live in basque. diversity that generates development and strengthens the union. that is why we need and support the minority safepack, a european protection for the fundamental rights of more than 50 million europeans. it doesn't matter the strength of the language, the number, or the will of its speakers. the selective and narrow view of the diversity of some member states is imposed. only in this way can it be explained that languages which are more widely spoken than others are not official in this parliament, simply because they have a state. (the speaker concludes in an unofficial language)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we're here today to talk about minorities. i myself belong to the german-speaking minority in belgium. so i am a german-speaking belgian, i am belgian, i am european, and my identity is therefore multifaceted. one identity does not exclude the other, it even conditions it. protection of minorities is therefore not a matter of political attitude. protection of minorities is a fundamental right and the proper treatment of minorities is a matter of survival for the european union. but i want to focus on one specific element today, and that is geo-blocking. if i want to see a german film in my constituency, it is almost exclusively possible to do so on live television. in the media library, in the streaming services like netflix or in the platforms like apple, i'm simply blocked from accessing them for copyright reasons. unfortunately, the geo-blocking regulation has not improved this situation - quite the contrary! we must therefore urgently use the revision of the geoblocking regulation to draw up an exception for defined linguistic minorities. in my region in belgium or in south tyrol, for example, this would be possible without any problems, because these regions are clearly demarcated geographically. these areas could very easily be assigned to the immediately adjacent language area. ladies and gentlemen, we have succeeded in breaking down barriers in our border areas. we cannot allow these very borders to be artificially raised again on the internet.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me thank you for a very rich debate this evening, with very interesting perspectives and thought-provoking statements from different speakers. and i may add, i have heard something definitely new in certain areas, and this is definitely something we should look into and reflect on. but let me start by saying that for the commission, inclusion and respect for the rich cultural diversity of europe is one of its main priorities and objectives. ‘united in diversity’ is the motto of the european union. the commission confirms its commitment both to policy support and funding. respect for the rights of persons belonging to minorities is part of the founding values of the european union and its, if i may say so, dna. the principle is explicitly mentioned in the treaty on the european union. it’s not only compatible but part of our european identity. moreover, any discrimination on the basis of membership of a national minority is explicitly prohibited under article 21 of the union’s charter of fundamental rights. the adoption of the eu anti-racism action plan 2020-2025 is a clear example of the role the commission aims to play in this regard. another good example of concrete policy action involving minorities is the recently-adopted eu roma framework. as i indicated, this debate is timely, as the college has another few weeks to finalise the commission’s formal answer to the initiative. thank you again for this very fruitful, interesting and inspiring debate.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i am pleased that the european parliament has put on the agenda the citizens' initiative minority safepack, which has been supported by over one million citizens across europe. it is important that the european union finally addresses effectively the initiative that affects more than 50 million indigenous citizens belonging to national minorities. in some european countries and regions, successful guarantees for the protection of minorities are already in place and can serve as an example. the european union has so far treated minority protection as a matter of subsidiarity, but unfortunately it is often the member states that do not guarantee equal rights for indigenous minorities, and the eu must set a good example and take on the role of protector. to this end, it is important that the european union develops a legal framework that promotes the survival of national minorities on its territory, the preservation of their mother tongue, culture and national identity. by developing such a legal framework and applying an appropriate control mechanism, the eu would demonstrate that it is truly acting to protect the rights of minorities. i am confident that over time, the initiative will have a positive impact on neighbouring and associated countries, and that the legal framework developed will ensure that citizens living in their territories are also granted their rights.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! we have reached a very important moment in the case of the rights of indigenous national minorities in europe. the success of the minority safepack european citizens' initiative, supported by over one million signatures, has given hope to the more than 50 million european citizens who feel they belong to a national, ethnic or linguistic minority. with such legitimacy, the european commission cannot afford to remain silent on a matter that affects more than 10% of the eu's population. the ostrich policy must end. in recent decades, the legal frameworks, policies and programmes developed at european level have become so interconnected that they can now directly affect the situation of citizens and the realisation of their rights. the european parliament resolution aims to encourage the european commission to take account of the situation and development of the rights of indigenous national minorities, among other factors, in the design of european policies and programmes. this is a unique opportunity, not only for the current european union and its citizens, but also a message to the candidate countries on the path to european integration that the european union takes the development of the rights of national and linguistic minorities seriously. here in the european parliament we have spoken out on many occasions to protect the rights of indigenous national and linguistic minorities, now it is the european commission's turn to act! thank you, sir.
in writing. europe's strength lies in its linguistic and cultural diversity of nations and national minorities, in addition to its christian-jewish cultural heritage. we should view this as a value, not a burden. linguistic diversity, multilingualism, is a huge advantage, not a disadvantage. i can attest to that as a bilingual deaf person. we have many positive examples in europe of the legal position of historical minorities, such as the swedes in finland or the german-speaking minorities in south tyrol. however, as an active member of the committee on petitions, i could also inform you about many of the abuses perpetrated by member states against national minorities, especially in terms of language. there is a classic double standard: while the copenhagen criteria are being closely monitored, monitored and held accountable in the candidate countries, there is no clear legal framework for the situation of indigenous national minorities in the eu member states. therefore, the initiative, as expressed in the minority safe pack, signed by over 1.2 million citizens, must be taken seriously and respected. i ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this resolution and to urge the european commission to respond to the legitimate demands of citizens with an ambitious legislative proposal.
50 million people in the european union belong to a national or linguistic minority. however, the teaching of the languages of the ethnic groups is becoming increasingly difficult. the demographic development and lack of opportunities for development are putting ethnic groups increasingly in the background. in order to preserve this cultural heritage, we need not only financial support but also awareness in our society. in many regions, language skills are to be preserved and promoted. there are six indigenous ethnic groups in austria. in burgenland alone, there are almost 20,000 burgenland croats, 2.4 percent of burgenlanders have hungarian as their mother tongue, in addition to 0.1 percent of romani as their language of communication. in a modern democratic society, in addition to raising awareness, tolerance and protection against discrimination, we also need the legal basis and recognition, because minorities are an indispensable part of our society. in a europe of diversity, every language is an important door opener and creates many opportunities.
in writing. it is a great pleasure to see that today, many years after the idea of the european citizens' initiative for the protection of minorities was born, the european parliament's plenary is holding a debate on the rights of national minorities. it is very important that a parliamentary resolution on this issue be adopted after the debate. the ep also adopted a resolution on the rights of indigenous ethnic minorities in europe for the first time. in europe, this issue affects 50 million citizens, that is the number of people belonging to an indigenous national or linguistic minority. we expect nothing less from our initiative than to eliminate the copenhagen dilemma, to make the union accountable not only to the countries about to join but also to its own member states for the guarantee of the rights of national minorities. we are witnessing the result of many years of work. after the initiative, the european court procedure, the collection of signatures, the drafting of the legal proposal and the autumn public hearing, the minority initiative has now reached the stage where the motion for a resolution is before the plenary. i ask my fellow congressmen to vote in favor of the minority safepack initiative. i hope that the ep will support the resolution with a strong majority. i expect the european commission to start legislation without delay on the basis of the minority safepack proposals and the parliament's resolution, as the minority safepack initiative reflects the will of over one million european citizens, as enshrined in the signature.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, it is with great pleasure that i join you today to discuss the decision to declare 2021 the european year of rail, an initiative that i’m very much looking forward to implement, also with your help. thank you, both the european parliament and the council, for the strong support for this initiative, especially to the rapporteur, ms deparnay-grunenberg, and all shadow rapporteurs, for steering the debate towards this successful outcome. the commission welcomes the political agreement reached by the co-legislators on 12 november, which was already endorsed by the committee on transport (tran) and coreper, and i look forward to your final decision in this session. the designation of the european year of rail will be a unique opportunity to promote rail among our citizens and businesses, but also to reflect and discuss how to make it a more attractive option for transport and travel around europe. most importantly, we want to reach out beyond rail’s usual supporters and to young people in particular. we will also cover key themes such as tourism, regional connectivity, cultural heritage, accessibility, equality, education and employment and look at how rail contributes to all of them. the european year of rail underlines the importance that this commission attaches to meeting the green deal objectives for transport, including a 90% reduction in transport emissions by 2050. rail also features prominently in our new sustainable and smart mobility strategy. if the strategies are a recipe for a modern future-proof mobility system, rail is certainly one of its main ingredients. i want to stress three aspects. first, the debates and discussions during next year will drive our work to get more passengers and goods using rail. as you know, in 2021 we will present initiatives targeting both. we will also launch a study on the feasibility of creating a rail connectivity index that shows the potential of rail to compete with other transport modes. for the green label, on which i welcome your views, we’ll look at establishing an eu framework for the harmonised measurement of transport and logistics summations, as we have already announced in the sustainable and smart mobility strategy. the european label would promote the transport of goods via less polluting modes, allowing citizens and businesses to make informed choices. thank you for your attention and i welcome your questions and your views.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the quality of her speech. thank you, too, commissioner. the european year of railways, if i may say so, must be a celebration for everyone. i was pleased to hear a rapporteur speak on the connectivity index, which is obviously essential for developing rail throughout europe, including in peri-urban and rural areas. this connectivity index is essential if the rail holiday is to be a holiday for everyone, for all europeans, and if we are to find concrete solutions to connect territories, with all the positive consequences for these territories in terms of economy, employment and tourism. this is obviously essential. the second element is taxation. i am naturally in favour of lowering taxes, in particular not having any more value added tax on rail, and also, as you know, having a tax on kerosene in return. this is a european and a global challenge. finally, madam commissioner, i would naturally very much like to see very strong attention paid by the various commissioners and, of course, the general secretariat, in the context of the recovery plans to be tabled by the various member states, so that these recovery plans are not simply projects that are recycled and taken out of the drawers, but that they fit fully into the framework set by the european commission, in particular to support the green deal and to come up with new projects that support the whole of rail throughout europe, for all europeans.
mr president, commissioner, this weekend i asked a farmer on the island of la palma: 'how are you?' and he said, "i'm looking forward to better". so we're here today, looking for a better way. we have a transitional agreement which allows farmers and cattle farmers in the canary islands and the other outermost regions to breathe a little easier. but they can only do so for the next two years because, after that, uncertainty continues. the achievement of this agreement was the result of the hard work of many people, and today i must deeply thank president von der leyen, commissioner wojciechowski and the rapporteurs who have sought ways of ensuring that the agricultural sector in the ors does not lose a single euro. however, it is not all won. we must now work hard again to ensure that the future of the agricultural sector in the ors is guaranteed after the transitional period. the current posei allocation is €268 million, just 0.1% of the overall cap budget. but its long-term and stable maintenance is vital, because its reduction would mean the disappearance of the primary sector and, with it, the disappearance of our landscape and also of our way of life. the ors need europe more than ever. by maintaining posei we will show that the outermost regions are really of the utmost importance for europe. that's our challenge.
mr president, as has been said many times before, this transitional provision for 2021 and 2022 is very important for our farmers. it guarantees them stable funding rules for the next two years, very similar to those they already know. we know that farmers are also undergoing a lot of change, changing their climate, changing their market situation, being affected by the covid-19 pandemic. so at least this assurance is very important to them and is such a gift indeed at christmas. although i am not happy with the length of the transitional period, for these reasons i will vote for the transitional regulation. but i regret that in two years' time we are postponing stronger environmental measures, that we are postponing more support for young farmers and that we will continue to see the large agro-complexes draw on funds that could be drawn on by small and medium-sized enterprises, that there is no congestion. i expect that the trialogue agreement will eventually bring at least the level of stagnation that the european parliament has approved. i therefore wish the member states to prepare their strategic plans well. they'll have time to do that if the deal is approved in time. these strategic plans should also include the views of the wider professional public in order to be a real reform.
mr president, commissioner, this two-year transitional period was very necessary. it is true that there is, on the one hand, the pandemic which has created instability in all economic sectors, but also, on the other hand, a risk of no deal and all the risks related to brexit. this security and stability, brought about by this transition, is necessary for all our farming friends. furthermore, as you know, an agricultural undertaking is not like any other. you don't press on-off, you don't change your output in 24 hours. it takes a little time. of course, we also have time to negotiate the new common agricultural policy, to do so with the actors, with farmers on our side, to make this just transition possible, to be able to achieve the important objectives linked to sustainability and the green deal, and to enable them to continue to have this primary function, which is a nurturing function and which enables our rural areas, our villages, all our territories to live. i am also pleased that funds have been made available under the recovery plan. i have one regret - there are always regrets - the overall budget, which in my opinion was not enough, but this is a history that is unfortunately behind us. i hope that, within the framework of the recovery plan, which is also european, the various member states will also table a whole series of proposals and projects which will make it possible to support our farmer friends directly or indirectly through these various plans. i ask you to pay attention to this, commissioner, and also to ensure that during the next two years the various treaties we will adopt take account of imports and the impact on the agricultural world in terms of product quality.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, islamic militants linked to isis in mozambique’s gas-rich northern province cabo delgado are becoming bolder. the extrajudicial executions, burning and looting and destruction of schools and hospitals is also extending to tanzania. since 2017, this islamic terrorism has killed more than 2 200 people in this country. there are almost half a million internally-displaced people depending on international aid for food and basic needs. this humanitarian catastrophe must come to an end. the civilian population must be protected – urgently – and human rights violations must be investigated and punished. gas resources should be used for the development of the region and to create the much-needed employment. the eu must contribute to humanitarian aid and the de-escalation of this conflict. we should also seriously consider why the eu so often underestimates this type of geopolitical threat – the proliferation of jihadist violence is deliberately disrupting african societies and becoming a push factor for migration. if the eu is serious about its geopolitical role then regional crises with a potential global impact, such as this, must be at the top of our eu-africa agenda.
madam president, i am proud of my own s&d group and proud of this parliament, because – let’s be honest – without us there would not have been any rule of law conditionality, and despite enormous pressure we have remained united in this principle. and by creating a real measure against their autocratic leaders, we have given hope again to the people of hungary and poland for a democratic future. we have demonstrated that we do not give in to blackmail attempts. the text of our agreement stays intact, despite angela merkel’s ugly search for a compromise with her fellow epp member orbán, and despite the willingness of you, president von der leyen, to accommodate the council rather than to safeguard the commission’s independence. i am confident that the european court of justice will confirm parliament’s position on this regulation as soon as possible, and i expect the european commission to use all instruments at its disposal to clamp down on europe’s autocrats as of now. and that should not be a political choice; it should be the only legal option.
president. - the european union is totally off track. what once began as an economic partnership to achieve peace and prosperity is evolving into a political superstate that wants more and more power, and that leads us from one conflict to another. the european values on which this cooperation was once based are being systematically transformed: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the european dream is turning into a nightmare. the brutality and arrogance with which the euro-fanatic elite wishes to subjugate free nation states and citizens is not a sign of strength, but of impotence, because nothing can break the will of a people to be free. a war with that reality cannot be won. the european parliament has already been given a mandate to vote on the report. they want to govern themselves, but they face intimidation, blackmail and threats. euro-federalism is driving us to sleepwalk in the trenches. what they call populism is a cry of distress from a people who do not want to be replaced, who cherish their freedom and want to govern themselves. it is high time that we were heard and that we returned to the original foundations and values of the european union. that is voluntary economic cooperation between free and democratic nation states.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has reached a number of important agreements. i would like to join in the celebration of the fact that we have reached agreement on the future multiannual perspective. the european parliament has made a great effort to ensure that the mff documents are ready for adoption once agreement on the mff is reached. i am the rapporteur for the european globalisation adjustment fund myself and we will have the final multilateral negotiations on this fund this evening. i am very pleased that the member states see a common interest in better coordinating their actions during this difficult period. indeed, we all need more clarity and coherence in how we will proceed, what restrictions we can expect, what the requirements for travel will be. so far, we have seen only the actions of individual member states, which have created confusion and uncertainty. we need to have more or less the same rules and more information. i fully agree that covid-19 vaccines should be considered a public good and available to everyone without exception. i congratulate those member states that have already announced free vaccination, and that is a very responsible approach. in this difficult situation, we must remain focused and united and ensure the safety of our people so that we can return to normal life as soon as possible.
in writing. this new seven-year budget, if we were to evaluate it in the light of what the parties on the right wanted or what the european council's proposal was, we could say that it is a glass half full. the health budget is being cut back. research is less helpless. unfortunately, this is not how a budget is evaluated. the question cannot be: is this budget less bad than another? no, i'm not going. the question must be: does this budget respond to the social and climate emergency? does this budget take full advantage of the lessons of the health crisis? but on the social front, we have no guarantee that the new european tax will not be borne by the workers, nor will it break with the market. on the climate front, the targets have been raised, very well, but the means are not keeping up. and from a health point of view, in the midst of a pandemic, we are faced with a budget that gives more to the military than the health program. really, is this the budget that people need for the next seven years? i don't think he did.
in writing. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the saga of this regulation introducing a rule of law conditionality in access to european budgetary resources is finally over. i am not the only one to say that the european union is not a money-changing machine. it is a club with strict rules, especially and above all for respecting a set of values: the rule of law, i.e. an independent and efficient judiciary, objective administrations, a free media that is not subject to the dictates of power and an effective fight against corruption, especially when it concerns the highest-ranking people, are essential pillars of european democracy. if these pillars are in danger, the european citizen cannot understand how the financial means can fuel the policies of the leaders who do not fight against, who are at the origin of, or even who benefit politically and financially from these practices. the veto of the polish and hungarian governments, whose countries are now strongly challenged in these areas, was certainly as revealing of their practices as any in-depth report on them. i am satisfied that the compromise reached, while regrettable, preserves the heart of the regulation intact.
in writing. our community has been attacked by the coronavirus and infected by illiberal populism at the same time. we have already shown that global challenges like pandemics or climate change cannot be solved by individuals, but can only be solved by working together. there is no symptom-free cure for illiberal mafia rule, so far we have only found a temporary treatment, but in time we will find an antidote for this too. with the adoption of the budget and the entry into force of the rule of law mechanism, a new timetable will begin. i am proud that our european community has produced a budget and a reconstruction package of historic importance, which provides substantial assistance to member states and ensures development. this crisis is also an opportunity. as one of the initiators of the european health union, i consider it a great achievement that the budget for health programmes has been increased many times over. an important result is the protection of the erasmus+ budget, including the support for the free interrail ticketing programme, discovereu, which i helped to mentor. while fidesz is pushing the anti-eu propaganda campaign to its zenith, a total of more than huf 15,000 billion will come to hungary over the next seven years, including huf 7,000 billion from the cohesion funds alone. more than huf 4200 billion in eu aid will be allocated to agricultural policy, more than huf 80 billion to climate neutrality, and a significant amount will also be made available from the reconstruction package: more than huf 2600 billion in non-repayable aid. orbán and his mafia government risked that with the veto.
in writing. mr president, this multiannual budget agreement proved to be a complex process, and its preparation and coordination required a great deal of time and patience. at the same time, the difficulties caused by the covid-19 pandemic made it more difficult than ever to agree on specific budget lines. we have indeed faced unprecedented challenges this year, and i am pleased that we can look forward to 2021 with some clarity on this issue. the budget implementation will present its own difficulties, but the negotiations were a great opportunity to secure additional funding for some union programmes. in particular, erasmus+ and horizon projects, both of which are highly relevant to latvia's interests. moreover, the budget will also have a positive impact on the rail baltica project, which will connect latvia with its baltic neighbours. i call on my colleagues to support the implementation of this budget and its swift implementation.
the agreement between the european council and the european parliament, which allowed the adoption of a powerful recovery stimulus package with a european union solidarity dimension in the face of the impact of the pandemic, is a sign of the vitality of the european project. i would highlight in this agreement the overall volume of eur 1.8 billion allocated to the various programmes, the eur 16 billion with which parliament was able to strengthen flagship programmes in the last round of negotiations, the inclusion of a formal and mandatory plan for the introduction of own resources as a key tool of the solidarity-based financing model, the establishment of ambitious cross-cutting targets for the allocation of funds to climate and biodiversity policies, the strengthening of the european parliament's monitoring capacity and its ability to act as a budgetary authority, and the adoption of a rule of law guarantee mechanism. a rapid and effective implementation process is now essential to tackle inequalities, create wealth and jobs and position the european union as a positive reference in the new global geopolitical framework through the energy transition, digital transition and economic modernisation.
the court is in session. we open the awarding ceremony of the 2020 sakharov prize, which this year is awarded to the democratic opposition in belarus. we can watch a video right now, all of us together. (video presentation released in the media) ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, presidents of the institutions, authorities, i am very honoured and pleased to welcome the winners of the sakharov prize of the european parliament, who represent the democratic opposition in belarus. i welcome sviatlana tsikanouskaya and veronika tsepkala, who are with me in the gallery. i also welcome siarhei dyleuski, ales bialiatski and stisapan putsila, who have been appointed to the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. and i also warmly welcome svetlana alexievich, who is following the ceremony from a distance, as many other members of the european parliament are doing. unfortunately, not everyone was able to attend. sergei tikhanovsky is still in prison for the sole offence of wanting to exercise his right to stand for election, as are mikola statkevich and maria kalesnikava, who are represented by their relatives maria adamovic and tatiana khomich. i invite you to think about this prize. i am very honoured to have you with me in the european parliament today. over the last six months, you have shown the world, ladies and gentlemen, what it really means to not give up. you have stood up for your rights and you have not given up the fight, despite the pain, the suffering, the fear. as nelson mandela said, courage is not the absence of fear, but the triumph over fear. your courage and strength of spirit paved the way for the revolution that took power in the country in 2020. we honor you, we pay tribute to you today, for your endurance and perseverance. for us, the sakharov prize ceremony is an important moment. human rights defenders and democracy activists are our role models and, as a sign of the utmost respect we have for them, we have organised this prize, despite the current difficulties. members of parliament from all 27 countries of the union are partly connected to us by remote means and partly present in the chamber to welcome your testimony. in the age of social media, it is difficult to keep information hidden and i want to convey to you, but also to all citizens of belarus, the message that we, as well as the whole world, are fully aware of what is happening in your country. we see your courage, the courage of women. we see the suffering of your people. we see the unspeakable abuses. we see violence. your aspiration and your determination to live in a democratic country, in freedom, and all this inspires us. we support you in your struggle. i'd like to pay a special tribute to our winners and the strength you've shown. however brutal and ruthless the methods of the government and however strong the fear they instill, this cannot withstand the protests of the citizens of all the people of belarus. "we have woken up and we will not sleep again", you said during the unity marches. it's true, you know. belarus is not afraid anymore. and that's something that the authorities, the government, have understood. the belarusian people have shown that no authoritarianism can block change and the opening of a new chapter in the history of your country. ladies and gentlemen, your struggle is our struggle and this is not the first time that we have awarded a collective prize to sakharov prize winners. in 2004, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to the belarusian association of journalists for defending press freedom. i would also like to congratulate them on their constant commitment and their spirit of sacrifice in informing and informing us and on the spirit of sacrifice they have shown over the past few months. in 2006 we awarded the prize to aliaksandr milinkevich, who was then the leader of the united democratic opposition in belarus, and we remember him fondly. the eu's message is clear: the belarusian people must fully enjoy their democratic rights and live in freedom. we in the european union have a moral duty to support them. we also have a duty to support all those around the world who are fighting the same fight as you. before i give the floor to sviatlana tsikhanouskaya, i would also like to congratulate and send a message of support to this year's finalists: environmental activists from guapinol and berta cáceres from honduras and monsignor najeeb michaeel, archbishop of mosul. i can't finish without mentioning our sakharov prize finalists who are still in prison and calling for their release: ilham tothi, raif badawi, nasrin sotoudeh, who has just been imprisoned again by the iranian authorities, despite her fragile, very fragile health. we greet them all and we are always and constantly close to them. (applause) thank you for your attention and participation and i now turn to sviatlana tsikhanouskaya for her speech.
winner of the 2020 sakharov prize for freedom of thought. – mr president, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, this year the world has seen belarus awakening. we stood for our freedom, dignity, national identity, but we faced the brutal nature of the regime. two realities confronted. peaceful bright people with flags and flowers against armed men in black hiding their faces behind balaclavas. we feel humbled that our story of resistance touched so many people across the globe. on your way to the european parliament, you could see a shocking photo on the façade of the building. a woman in white falling down to her knees before the riot police. it’s not a wartime movie scene, it’s a ‘peaceful’ belarus in 2020. people locked inside a cathedral by special forces. it’s a ‘peaceful’ belarus. detainees marked with different colours to determine how severely they should be beaten by the police officers, and it is a ‘peaceful’ belarus. deliberately infecting prisoners with covid—19. it is a ‘peaceful’ belarus – in the heart of europe. fear is what one feels hearing those stories. i am one of the thousands of belarusians who used to be afraid. an invisible wall of fear was built around us. this wall of fear held us back for almost three decades. but this year everything has changed. this year we united in our aspiration for change. united, we believed that this wall of fear can be taken down, brick by brick. united, we overcome our fear on the way to freedom, day by day, week by week, month by month. the photo on the façade of the european parliament is not a story of fear, it is a story of hope, courage and freedom. for the third time in 20 years, belarusians have been honoured with the sakharov freedom of thought prize. what is better recognition that we are freethinkers? what is better motivation for us to keep going? we are bound to win, and we will win. a simple wish to walk freely in the streets of our cities and towns keeps us going. desire to celebrate holidays with our families keeps us going. the dream of a better future for belarus keeps us going. a belarus where justice and truth prevail. a belarus that our children can be proud of. i am endlessly honoured to speak in front of you. we receive this prize together with the brave belarusians maria kalesnikava, veranika tsapkala, sviatlana aleksievich, volha kavalkova, ales bialiatski, mikola statkevich, siarhei tsikhanouski, siarhei dyleuski, stsiapan putsila and all the members of the coordination council. (applause)but we are not alone here today. beside us are thousands of belarusians who inspire us, give us strength and hope. many of them are not here today. our courageous women, workers, students, doctors, teachers, lawyers, writers, journalists and activists – all of them are in belarus fighting for our freedom. it is to them that this prize belongs. (applause)last sunday, i met with our distinguished belarusian writer sviatlana aleksievich, who is with us remotely today. sviatlana received the nobel prize for telling the stories of a ‘little big man’ in the light of historic events. this is how she created ‘a monument to suffering and courage in our time’. for me, such a ‘little big man’ is each and every belarusian who takes part in this peaceful protest against violence and lawlessness. each of them is a hero. each of them is an example of courage, compassion, and dignity to me. freedom is made of simple things and often requires fearless resistance. for aliaksandr taraikouski it was protesting against the falsified election. he stood raising his bare hands in front of men with rifles and he was shot dead. fearless he was. for the artist raman bandarenka it was going out to protect the national symbols in the courtyard where neighbours gather. he was kidnapped and beaten to death in the police office. fearless he was. the journalist katsiaryna barysevich and the doctor artsiom sarokin dared to unveil the truth about this murder by the regime cronies. this bravery cost their freedom. fearless they are. natalia hershe could not stay on the sidelines and came back to belarus after living abroad for many years. out of solidarity, she participated in peaceful protests and was sentenced to two and a half years in prison for taking the mask off the police. fearless she is. freedom is victory over fear. seventy-three-year-old nina baginskaya …(applause) … has become a symbol of our struggle. despite countless detentions and intimidation, she has been protesting against injustice for 30 years already, often alone. truly free she is. mikola statkevich …(applause)… was a presidential candidate in the 2010 election. he has been imprisoned and recognised as a political prisoner for the third time in 15 years. his commitment to the values of freedom is something that no prison sentence can take away. truly free he is. my friend maria kalesnikava tore up her passport and chose prison over exile to remain in belarus, with our people. truly free she is. my thoughts are with her every day. my husband siarhei tsikhanouski decided to tell the truth no matter the cost. for that, he was thrown in jail on trumped—up charges. he has not seen his family for seven months already. but these are only some of the courageous people our european nation is extremely proud of. freedom is also universal. belarusians have been marching every week since the 9 august election. they march for their future and the future of those who cannot be there. they march for the freedom and dignity of belarusians, of europeans – yours, and ours. without a free belarus, europe is not fully free either. we ask europe and the whole world to stand with belarus. we call on europe to be braver in their decisions and support the people of belarus now, not tomorrow, and not sometime in the future. standing for human rights and democracy is not interference but is the duty of each self—respecting country. your solidarity and your voice are important but it is actions that matter. please, be there for the belarusians and be assured that belarusians will do the same for you in the future. i have only one wish this year. i want every belarusian who is now in jail or was forced to live in exile to return home. the third sakharov prize will mark a new beginning for belarus. nelson mandela, who received the prize in 1988 together with the soviet dissident anatoly marchenko, said: ‘i learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it’. he believed that brave are those who conquer their fear. only united we can fully conquer fear on our long path to freedom and build a new belarus. every country has its own path to democracy, and this is ours. long live europe! long live belarus! zhiv’e bielarus! (sustained applause)
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are currently experiencing a health crisis of enormous proportions worldwide - but especially in europe. in the debate this morning we sent a clear signal that we want to emerge from this crisis in solidarity and together, that we are above all trying to mitigate the serious social and economic consequences of the pandemic as much as possible, with a large programme, with a multiannual financial framework - with a lot of money, but also with a lot of commitment. we all know, of course, that's not enough. in these days and weeks we are witnessing a second, sometimes even a third wave in many member states of the european union. in my own country - germany - we have more dead than ever before. today, a sad high point: 950 people. several hundred thousand people have already died, millions of people are infected, some seriously ill. we have introduced restrictive measures in our member states to protect citizens as much as possible. but one drug, hopefully soon, will help us say we've contained this pandemic, and that's a vaccine. only a vaccine can defeat the virus. but there is still a lot of work to be done. since this virus has no passport, since this virus does not care about national borders, it was necessary from the very beginning to develop european strategies. we've done that in the vaccine business. first of all, i would like to express my great respect and gratitude to the researchers and companies in europe who helped us develop such a vaccine in a very short time. two vaccines are due to be approved in the eu soon. because we know that only the development, manufacture and deployment of safe and effective vaccines will be a lasting and sustainable solution in the fight against this serious health crisis. and we've decided to take a common approach. i know that there is great concern among our people about the fact that it has already been approved in some countries - in the united kingdom, in israel, but also in the united states of america. we have not focused on national strategies, but have said that we are going to follow a common european path through the ema. we do not want to enter into a competition between member states, but we want the vaccine to be made available to all citizens of the european union at the same time. this will not be easy, because of course, at the beginning, after the approval, which hopefully will be very soon, possibly as early as december 21, there are not enough vaccines to vaccinate all the people who need it right away. this too is disputed. there are discussions in all member states about who should be vaccinated first. and there are states that are debating whether to introduce mandatory vaccination. the priority in vaccination plans is always the elderly, health care workers, and people with pre-existing conditions. these are the main target groups that are given priority in member states' vaccination strategies. i am very grateful to the commission for having succeeded in getting us to generate an option for almost two billion doses of vaccines. it is clear that, wherever people live in the european union, with our joint efforts coordinated by the commission, they will really get the protection to which they are entitled. i hope that we will also be able to make these accesses available as free of charge as possible. let me mention another important point that has been raised a little bit in the debate about who's first and who's fastest: communication. i don't know about you, mr. member. i'm sometimes amazed at campaigns - including social media - that scare people into getting vaccinated. the disease itself is certainly far more dangerous than any vaccination. but we must be careful not to give the impression that the relevant approval and licensing procedures are subject to political influence. we must give citizens confidence. we have to convince them that getting as many people vaccinated as possible -- 60 to 70 percent -- is the only guarantee that an entire society can be protected. finally, post-authorisation surveillance data collection and formal surveillance studies are key elements of a vaccination programme, so that everyone knows what can happen in the event of side effects and so that there are no new fears. we have to take this very, very seriously. but, ladies and gentlemen, we have not only been concerned about the safety and protection of our own citizens in the eu, but we have also, of course, taken into account the global dimension of this crisis, and i am grateful for that too. the commission has joined and contributed to the so-called covax facility. that means we are practicing international solidarity. we know that the only way to protect our citizens permanently from this pandemic is to ensure that our neighbours, the countries with which we cooperate and exchange, can also successfully combat this serious pandemic. it is therefore in our interest to provide financial and organisational support to those countries which do not have the financial capacity that the european union has, and i am grateful for that. so our overarching common goal is to accelerate the development, manufacture and delivery of vaccines so that all people everywhere have access to vaccines at affordable prices. yes, vaccinations are not a miracle weapon that will allow us to return to normal life immediately. the old normal will no longer exist. there will have to be a new normal. we must continue to work together for the common good and in our daily lives, we must continue to follow the rules we have agreed to: wear masks, keep distance, observe the hygiene rules and, especially now, during the christmas holidays, even if it is difficult for us, take responsibility for our neighbours, for our loved ones. we should also set a good example as politicians.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, we are living in turbulent times. the health situation across europe is extremely uncertain. the impact of the pandemic on our economies and societies is unprecedented and the threat unfortunately remains very real. as we approach this end-of-year holiday season, it is only natural that families and friends wish to travel and spend time together. but make no mistake. we are still very much in the middle of this pandemic and we cannot afford to be complacent. yet the prospect of a covid—19 vaccine provides some light at the end of the tunnel. allow me to stress once again the three golden principles that are guiding the commission’s work in this field, namely equal access, affordability and safety. in recent months, the commission has been negotiating intensively to build a diversified portfolio of vaccines at fair prices and is working at full speed to review their safety and make them available. as you know, in europe the decision on the authorisation of these vaccines is not in the hands of politicians nor the hands of institutions, but in the hands of independent regulatory agencies, in our case the european medicines agency (ema). as i think you know by now, we are aiming to authorise the pfizer—biontech vaccine by the end of the year. the ema has already announced its intention to provide for an authorisation next monday. if this is the case, the commission is ready to provide the formal authorisation and placing on the market in supersonic fast procedures. in two days we can do the formal authorisation that normally, for this type of authorisation for placing on the market, can take two months. this means that this vaccine will be the christmas gift for all europeans if everything goes well. we also know that, before mid—january, we will also have an opinion from ema on the other vaccine by moderna. ema is also now currently conducting rolling reviews on the vaccines produced by astrazeneca and johnson & johnson. once authorised, we will secure access to these vaccines for all eu citizens at the same time. but, for this to happen, member states need to have all preparations in place and activate their national vaccination plans. we already provided guidance in october in that respect and this is being done in a coordinated manner. all our member states are making great efforts to put in place robust vaccination plans. these include identification of priority groups to be vaccinated first, ensuring solid supply chains, logistics and infrastructure, training staff or developing electronic vaccination registries. there is still much to do and certainly many challenges to overcome, but the commission stands ready and committed to help. we are also providing support to member states on communication around covid—19 vaccines. as someone who fought against the virus, not only as a member of the college, but also from a hospital bed, i wish to say that nobody should underestimate or negate the threat we are facing nor the usefulness of the vaccines. it is important that our citizens understand that we have not cut corners on safety and the vaccines do not pose a risk. europe will only authorise vaccines for our citizens under the sole condition that they are safe. building trust is of course key to ensure a high vaccination uptake and everybody knows by now that this is, and should be, our collective priority, because at the end of the day vaccines in themselves do not save lives. vaccination does. we must also remember that the european union has a duty to the world. we know that no one is safe until everyone is safe and that is why we aim to ensure universal and equitable access not only to vaccines, but also to diagnostics and therapeutics for all, including the most vulnerable populations living in the poorest and most fragile countries. no one should and no one will be left behind. europe has been leading the international solidarity efforts to establish the covax facility. team europe, our institutions and our member states, is now the largest contributor to covax to purchase and deliver vaccines to low-income countries as part of a collective objective to buy two billion vaccine doses by the end of next year. the european union is deeply and firmly committed to multilateralism and joint coordination with multilateral institutions. we are the european union and in our values we are guided by the principles of solidarity and unity of purpose. as such, we will donate under the team europe approach – we and our member states – a proportion of our vaccines to our western balkan partners in our neighbourhood, as well as for humanitarian assistance and to frontline health workers in the poorest countries. this is a temporary solution to bridge the time gap until vaccines from covax are broadly available and we are currently working on a methodology to make this happen. we will also ensure – and i know that this is an issue of interest to many of you – that intellectual property rights are not an obstacle to universal access to vaccines, including in developing countries that have no production capacity or have limited financial resources. last but not least, as the european union, we need to advance rapidly on getting our own european health union off the ground. several proposals are already on the table. others will follow. i am grateful to this house for your consistent support for all these initiatives from the commission. i wish to emphasise the importance of remaining vigilant. whilst we advance our work on vaccines – and we are now getting to the later stage – it is essential to keep reducing transmission of the virus through effective testing, contact tracing and isolation until the immediate danger is behind us. responsibility, both collective and individual, remains essential to get our lives and businesses restarted, but also to reduce the pressure on our heroic healthcare workers, whose immense efforts in the last months need to be not only acknowledged, but compensated. our european way of life has been severely tested in these eight months, but it did not collapse. it resisted. our resilient societies, our resilient health systems and the universality of our schools and education proved that, although we are tested we can manage, and we did manage because we are in this together. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'm very angry today, but i'm also very grateful. i am very grateful to the intensive care workers across europe who are fighting for the lives of people with covid-19 and other illnesses who are really at the edge, physically and mentally. they deserve our solidarity, and we owe it to them that we all follow the rules and that we as politicians make rules that help. and i think we should look not at britain, but at ireland. ireland has managed to have the lowest numbers in europe and in some cases, in some days, no patients have died from covid-19. i'm very angry at the people who are still downplaying the coronavirus and saying that you don't need a vaccine at all. but i am also angry at some politicians and unfortunately also some journalists who are discrediting the process of approval in europe, mostly without any knowledge of the facts - unfortunately not only the tabloid media, but also the mainstream media. and i'm grateful to those who are working day and night at companies like biontech and the european medicines agency to get us a safe vaccine as quickly as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. keep going! please help us! we are here to support you, dear businesses and dear staff of the european medicines agency!
the second wave of the pandemic has already caused more deaths than the first. since 1 august, the virus has claimed the lives of more than 152 000 people in europe, up from 136 000 in the first wave. our thoughts are with the victims and their families. after months of suffering and pain, we see the light at the end of the tunnel. thanks to the concerted action of the commission and the support of the member states, we have achieved equitable access to vaccine doses. this achievement demonstrates what we are capable of when we speak and work with one voice. we now need to articulate a common vaccination process. and as we continue to fight the virus, we must have an equally ambitious response in the realm of international cooperation. if we want vaccines to be effective, they have to be produced at scale, distributed equally around the world, and affordable for everyone. ensuring that all people can be immunised at the same time is a humanitarian imperative and a precondition for ensuring well-being. the european union's support for the covax global consortium, which is promoted by the world health organisation, is essential for vaccination in the most vulnerable countries. as long as the disease resists in one place, it will remain a threat to all other places. the establishment of strong and inclusive health systems must be a priority of the health union, but also a fundamental pillar of our development cooperation programmes. now more than at any time in the last 70 years, we need to be inspired by the principles of international solidarity and cooperation. let us make the story of the european union's vaccine a success story that can restore hope to european citizens and to the rest of humanity.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, vaccines have indeed been what has allowed us to fight infections and prevent millions of deaths, and it will be the vaccine or vaccines against covid-19 that can really end this pandemic. i would therefore like to say to the commission that the common vaccination strategy is a success story, because thanks to this strategy we have been able to make pre-contracts, we have been able to make joint purchases; i hope we will be able to make joint vaccinations in that week of vaccination that was discussed in the council. and this has been because we have never in history seen public-private funding on this scale to accelerate drug discovery. we have invested a lot of public money to accelerate the technical knowledge that already existed, and it's important that european citizens know this, because the best vaccination strategy is for citizens to get vaccinated, and for citizens to get vaccinated, they have to have confidence. and the european union has been far from the 'marketing coup'. we haven't made any political career, because we haven't eliminated any safety requirements for vaccines to be approved. that is why the european medicines agency works on scientific and technical criteria, outside of pressure or any other political time. when the european vaccine is authorised in the member states, it will be a safe vaccine. no one is safe until we're all safe. that is why, commissioner, covax is good, but it is not enough. when there's that much public money, we can really make this vaccine a public good, global, universal, for everyone.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i have several questions for you today. the first concerns europe. when will you allow members to consult the contracts signed with industry so that we can at least learn about the liability clauses before the start of the vaccination of citizens? as for the external dimension of the strategy, by refusing within the wto the possibility for some countries to lift intellectual property rights for covid-19-related medical products, the union reneged on its commitment to help the lowest-income countries. so i ask the commission to justify this position and, to avoid any misrepresentation, while the commission is advocating voluntary mechanisms, can it tell us whether any of the companies that have signed advance purchase contracts for the production of the vaccine, and thus benefited from european funds, have committed themselves to support the union's initiative for non-exclusive licences?
for the group gue/ngl madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me say thank you. to thank all the health workers, the social workers in crisis, the firefighters, the police officers, who have kept us afloat for three quarters of the year and for three quarters of the year, have helped us manage this pandemic in europe. it wasn't because of the politicians. it was thanks to every single person who got involved in the fight against covid and helped us survive it. secondly, let me ask the commissioner for an answer. i would like to ask, as my colleague has, why the european union has not supported the amendment of the trips agreement, which would allow the cheap and mass production of the vaccine? do we think only of ourselves? are we thinking only of the citizens of the european union? you said in may that you wanted the patent rights to the vaccine to be universal, that it wasn't going to be charged, that it could be used. and you just didn't do that in the actual vote. and third, when we talk about the vaccine campaign. if you want to campaign and inform citizens about the vaccine positives, you have to give all the information. the commission does not do that, it is not transparent. we don't know what the hidden defects are. and these are all things that discredit all of your campaigns. please correct this decision, because only then can we give the citizens serious information and they will trust us.
madam president, the start of vaccination does not offset the huge shortcomings in public health systems and inadequate government measures. the european union and governments, in the context of commodity health, are treating the vaccine as just another source of profit for the monopolies. pharmaceutical companies were subsidized for all stages of research, manufacturing, pre-marketing, and marketing of the vaccine. they hide research results from each other, preventing interdisciplinary cooperation which is not allowed in capitalist competition. it is questionable why the issue of treatments and drugs that seem to help against the virus is not being promoted. the commission's refusal to submit documents from the european parliamentary group of the communist party of greece to the european parliament to reveal the contracts concluded by the european union with the companies, in particular to make the people aware of what has been agreed with their own money, raises questions. vaccines must be safe and free. against conspiracy theories, they must be a conscious act and a requirement of the people to protect their health according to the recommendations of scientists and as advised by doctors.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the vaccines are coming. that's the good news. but will they be available to every man and woman? will they be able to be distributed everywhere? will we be able to provide the medical and practical conditions everywhere in the world? the question marks behind these sentences that's the negative message that we can't answer that yet. and let me emphasize one thing: yes, we can beat this virus! and we are full of gratitude to all those who help us to do this in our home countries, to do this in europe. but we're only going to do it if we do it globally, if we do it with a global strategy, with a global vaccination policy. and to do that, we need an additional $5 billion next year to get our foot in the door in the global south and help the people there. no, it cannot fail on patents! we urgently need agreements with the companies - yes - and where necessary, exceptional rules, so that the vaccines can be made available everywhere. and for the european commission, commissioner, it is a great opportunity to include a global health policy as a core element in the work programme for next year and to turn this crisis, with the guidance and active assistance of the european union, into a great opportunity for a global health policy in the interest of us all. that's the moral, that's the medical imperative.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has been suffering from the effects of the coronavirus for almost a year. to end this disease, we need a health policy that is protective, effective and transparent - the opposite of what the commission is proposing. firstly, while europeans have never been so opposed to vaccination, you have decided to make the negotiations with the laboratories opaque and not to make public the clauses exempting them from liability in the event of side effects. you have prevented us from consulting these numerous contracts except in a room without a telephone, paper or pen. i'm still waiting for permission to go in. this decision prevents us from carrying out our mandate as democratically elected members of parliament, which you are not. secondly, you are ready to validate the marketing of the messenger rna vaccines, which have never been used in a mass vaccination campaign, and this after only a few weeks of testing. in view of the urgency of the situation and the precautionary principle, we should, like the chinese and russians, give preference to more conventional vaccines, such as the flu vaccine, for example, in order to protect the health of europeans, and also to avoid any conflict of interest. i hope, madam president, that we will not be the butt of the joke, by being the last to receive and deploy the coronavirus vaccine.
madam president, there are defining moments that define us and today is one of them. no company, we know, has the means to provide a vaccine, to produce enough vaccines for everyone. a hundred countries are asking the european union to produce the vaccine themselves, to avoid unnecessary casualties, to avoid second-class citizens facing the disease. and what is the response of the european union, of the european commission? - no, i did not. we will leave these vaccines in the hands of the multinational pharmaceutical companies, coldly and unreservedly. that is unacceptable to me. we prefer to defend the interests of a few rather than the protection of all. but there is another way. because otherwise this selfish, profit-oriented decision will forever be a stain on the coat of arms of your europe. we need a different europe, the citizens are asking us to do so. let's defend the vaccine as a public good. we all have the right to it, we all have the right to protection and we will fight for it. dear european commission, please hear us out.
the crisis, mr president, is the seed of a stronger cooperation in the field of public health. we've come a long way in the last few months, but we're not there yet. it is now up to the european medicines agency to take the time necessary to do its job properly. the safety and quality of the vaccine is above speed. it is also very important that we pay due attention to vulnerable groups and do additional research on the effects. i would also call on the member states to follow the eu guidelines for further deployment as much as possible. we can miss a new patchwork of national strategies and certain nationalist strategies like a sore tooth. we also need to look beyond our own borders, because the virus doesn't stop at our borders. i am very pleased that the european union is taking a strong role in the who partnership to give the poorest countries access to the vaccine. as the director of the world health organization himself said: the real question is not whether the world can afford to share, but whether the world can afford not to share. the eu vaccination strategy has worked. let 's be positive . in less than a year, we'll have workable, safe, high-quality vaccines at an affordable price. we must take this positive boost into a stronger cooperation towards a european health union. i think what we need to do right now is build trust and everything will be fine.
for the greens/efa group mr president, being and feeling safe in the anxious and upsetting context we are currently experiencing is fundamental and implies, in particular, resilience in the face of terrorism and all forms of crime, but also trust in our institutions and law enforcement, which guarantee our fundamental freedoms and rights in the face of arbitrariness both online and offline. inequalities, gender and domestic violence, police violence, racist and xenophobic crimes, respect for the rule of law and corruption are among the issues that a union security strategy must tackle. security challenges must be seen through the lens of education, culture and socio-economic policies, in short, articles 2 and 3 of the treaty on european union. parliament called on the commission to include these dimensions in its strategy. in this context, the reform of europol, as well as the strengthening of the counter-terrorism agenda without an assessment of security policies and their impact on fundamental rights and without enhanced democratic control are not acceptable. an ever more secure agenda, which satisfies the populist appetite for increased border controls, whose human consequences are europe's shame. the european union is also committed to the development of a common defence policy, which is based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. this agenda is taking the path towards which terrorists and extremists want to push us despite respect for individual freedoms and fundamental rights. let us be clear: we do not accept that the european union should go down this road.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the threats around us evolve very fast, but our response is way too slow. the terror attacks of recent months and years were mostly perpetrated by islamic extremists acting alone. we need, of course, a stronger role for europol and more effective cross-border information sharing but this is not enough. it must be matched with measures that tackle the heart of a dangerous ideology that permeates our society – radical islam. this is why the commission and member states are right to strengthen their efforts to tackle radicalisation. we must take steps to root out those who use religion and ideology to incite acts of violence. in order to do that we must cast aside political correctness and understand that defending our values must be central to any action. we need the resources, political will and policies, but above all, we need courage – the courage to be proud of who we are, the courage to defend our society and way of life. this renewed security union must deliver that.
author. – madam president, can you imagine what it must be like to be forced to be sterilised, to be forced to undergo abortion, to be tortured, to be used as a slave, to have your children taken away from you? because that is the reality for so many uyghurs and other muslim minorities in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region. twenty percent of the world’s cotton production originates from xinjiang, often harvested with the use of forced labour. the supply chain for textile products, including masks sold in our pharmacies here in europe, are part of an economy that is based on forced labour and a lot of exploitation and suffering. our companies cannot simply turn a blind eye and claim ignorance. they have a duty to better monitor their supply chains. china is not simply an economic partner; it is a country edging towards the definition of carrying out genocide. the eu and member states must put in place effective controls and place an import ban on chinese products made using forced labour. the eu should enforce targeted sanctions against chinese officials responsible for overseeing these shocking crimes. it’s time to stop talking and practice what we actually believe.
president. - i should like to begin by thanking the vice-president for getting the withdrawal agreement back on track and making it operational. i would also like to thank mr barnier and his negotiating team - he has left us for understandable reasons - for their months of commitment and exhausting negotiations which are very demanding on a human being. he has done so with great tenacity, with lucidity, with the necessary pragmatism and with flexibility. my question is that everything would be done to reach an agreement in those last days, those last hours. the consequences, ladies and gentlemen, of a no deal are terrible for the european union. in total, we will lose 1.2 million jobs. all of this is on top of the coronary disaster. the united kingdom will lose more than half a million jobs. in my little flanders we are losing 2.6% of our gdp and 30,000 jobs. i would therefore ask the commission to make the brexit fund work quickly for the most affected regions, for the most affected sectors. i would also ask that the negative effects of brexit be offset somewhat and that new trade agreements be accelerated, which we will absolutely need. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that it must be possible to reach an agreement with pragmatism, with flexibility, to strike a balance between the sovereignty of the british and the integrity of our internal market, which they must respect. there are mechanisms for state aid, for the rules of competition, for maintaining our standards, for governance. the same applies to fisheries, where we recognise sovereignty, but where we must have sufficient access, sufficient quotas and, above all, legal certainty for our fishermen. i agree with mr barnier that we must think about the future, that we must go for a post-brexit partnership not only on defence and security, but also on research and development, on erasmus+, university cooperation and cooperation in and around the north sea, for the blue economy: the 21st century will be the century of the oceans. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we should also work on interparliamentary cooperation with the british once brexit is over. we too are going to have to learn from this brexit. this can't happen again, this misery. article 50 will have to be revised. i hope it will never be used again. but whoever leaves must come with a proposal, with a blueprint. we ourselves will have to do more to counter populism, and the eu will have to make progress on the internal market, jobs and prosperity, trade agreements and a comprehensive migration policy.
mr president, on the eve of the real brexit, perhaps three quick lessons. firstly, the workers in britain, tired of social dumping, saw no alternative in this european competition union. the social europe remained a slogan. secondly, boris johnson, who promised them better working conditions and better wages if they were to gain independence, has been fighting for the right to lower wages and lower working conditions for british workers for a year now. can you imagine that? and finally, a lesson for flanders. in flanders, smes will suffer. it may cost us thousands of jobs and the working conditions in the port of antwerp will put pressure on the dock workers. and yet the flemish belang applauded this brexit as loud as the loudest idiots we could say. but no, they know what they're doing. their nationalism, your nationalism, mr annemans, is leading to social breakdown, to the breakdown of social security and to lower wages. and i 'll tell you straight up: it won't pass! no way, mr. annemans, not a chance!
