in writing. hungary pays particular attention to the treatment of homelessness. it is important that all homeless people have access to services and that no one is forced to spend the night in public spaces. it's not about making threats, it's about action. protecting human life is the first priority. at a national level, there are almost 10 000 accommodation places available on a continuous basis (night shelters and temporary accommodation for homeless people) per year. in the winter, more than 1 600 extra seats are available for people in need (seasonal capacity). in addition, there is more than 7 600 daily heating capacity available nationwide. in addition to the local authorities, church and non-governmental organisations are also involved in a significant proportion of the institutions' operations. on 8 january 2020, the utilization rate of night shelters was about 85.08% nationally, while in budapest it was 83.66%. in total, there were some 666 vacant places for night shelters available nationwide. hungary is also implementing the housing first programme, building on the experience of previous hungarian (back to the streets) and eu programmes. the aim is to help homeless people living on the streets to get out of their crisis situation, to be able to live independently and to have a multidisciplinary team assisting them in their rehabilitation. a total of 14 tenders were received, worth some huf 1.85 billion, of which 11 were from the convergence regions and 3 from the central hungarian region. the project will provide housing for more than 300 homeless people with special needs.
homelessness is a threat to a decent life and the european union must therefore engage with this issue. up to 20% of homeless people in the czech republic are under the age of 30. they often end up on the streets because of dysfunctional family backgrounds. another big problem is the debts that parents accrue during childhood. there are more than 14,000 indebted adolescents in the czech republic. the most vulnerable group are mothers with children who are left on the street with one foot because of executions. these problems must be solved. however, i believe that the problem of homelessness must be tackled directly by the member states at national or local level. local authorities are the ones who know the situation in their area best. a good example of a local housing first project is the rapid re-housing project in brno, czech republic, where 50 city flats were provided to homeless families. within two years, 46 families were able to maintain their homes. when people from the streets or the shelters can maintain stable housing, their health improves, their chances of finding a job increase, and poor parents are not at risk of their children ending up in institutional care. i believe that the european union has an important role to play in supporting such projects financially. however, the actual solution of this question remains in the hands of the member states from the point of view of subsidiarity.
the following are one-minute speeches on important political questions (rule 172).
mr president, we are now in a situation where the new european commission has been set up, and i am glad that the european parliament has also made it clear that it will not tolerate any suspicion of a conflict of interest. i think that's a very strong signal to the public as well. today we are talking about the programme and content priorities of the european commission and the european parliament, and i would like to highlight one that i consider to be the most important, namely the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. i'm talking about small farmers, small business owners, technicians, a lot of people in the it field who need help. i am sure that the best way to help them is to enable them to reduce the administrative burden, to simplify life, to complete the common market in services, to build a digital common market and, above all, to build a capital union so that they have better access to resources. small and medium-sized enterprises should not be forgotten, because they form the backbone of the economy and create value for the future of the european union.
mr president, less than a month ago, over 800 tons of waste destined for incineration in bulgarian power plants were seized by the italian authorities. investigations in the italian media have followed, linking this traffic to the local mafia. international crime takes advantage of the free movement within the european union. the european garbage route can also be a conduit for drugs and other illicit traffic. at the same time, the health and environment of bulgarians are being sacrificed in the absence of european control mechanisms. the bulgarian citizens don't want our country to become a dump. i therefore call on the representatives of the european commission to intervene quickly in this case and to put forward proposals to control the trade in waste in the european union.
in writing. the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the financial arm for implementing the green deal. it is also a response to citizens who have called for a roadmap to make the eu the first climate-neutral bloc. the just transition fund should also address the wider impact on regions and industries that are highly dependent on carbon and fossil fuels of the paradigm shift that climate neutrality will require. the path to climate neutrality is a complicated one and the just transition fund is here to cushion the difficulties of this change. the socialists have advocated that the transition be fair and not create more inequalities, and we will ensure this during the implementation process of all the proposals and measures included in the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the just transition fund. we are aware of the need to mobilise resources to reduce emissions and renew the necessary infrastructure. but above all, we socialists have a strong commitment to social justice and solidarity with those who have to face the most difficulties, so we will be following up the implementation of the plan and the fund in detail.
in writing. the equitable transition fund aims to achieve social justice in climate action. this is a major challenge and the commission's statement is an important step towards its solution. however, this proposal does not take into account the complexity of the challenge and therefore needs to be improved. more ambitious financial instruments are needed to finance a truly socially just transition. the proposed size of the just transition fund is not appropriate for this. the lack of adequate support could lead to a jump in consumer energy prices, which i find unacceptable. it is also contrary to the principle of equity to reallocate financial resources from the structural funds to climate action. in this spirit, the budget of the just transition fund should be outside these sources. it is also worth revising the level of mandatory national co-financing in the proposal. finally, in the current situation, we do not have the luxury of favoring certain technologies and stigmatizing others. for a successful transition, we need all low-carbon solutions without exception. therefore, nuclear energy as a cheap, emission-free and safe source of energy should also be made available for financial support.
in writing. the european union has set itself very ambitious climate targets and i think that today almost no one questions the need to take action to stop climate change. however, it should be borne in mind that the burden of achieving these targets varies widely from region to region and some of them therefore require additional support. i am therefore pleased that the european commission has come forward with the proposal to create a just transition mechanism. however, it is fundamental that the creation of this mechanism is based on the principle of 'new objectives' 'new money'. so i would like to know what the source of the 7.5 billion euros proposed by the commission for the just transformation fund is. i would stress that the cohesion policy, of which the fund is to be a part, is the most important investment policy of the european union and its future must not be jeopardised under any circumstances.
in writing. the eu has set itself ambitious targets to combat climate change and achieve climate neutrality by 2050. one trillion euros could be directed over the next decade to finance the transition to a green economy and mitigate its social consequences. financing is expected to come not only from the eu budget but also from private funds and loans guaranteed by the european investment bank (eib). the commission wants eu countries to allocate €7.5 billion in fresh money in the next eu budget to finance the just transition fund. the mff debate is currently very active. but to receive this money, countries will have to match each euro with between €1.50 and €3 of cohesion funding, as well as providing money from national budgets. this is of course not the case for the countries of east-central europe, which are the largest beneficiaries of the eu's cohesion funds. they also consider that they should be additional resources rather than redistributions from existing funding. in contrast, net contributors are not enthusiastic about the initiative either - they generally support spending more money on the eu budget to combat climate change, but are reluctant to pay more at the block-expense, while poorer countries want generous aid. we all face the enormous challenge of agreeing on a budget, working together, and the enormous challenge of delivering on the urgent climate goals.
in writing. the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the financial arm for implementing the green deal. it is also a response to citizens who have called for a roadmap to make the eu the first climate-neutral bloc. the just transition fund should also address the wider impact on regions and industries that are highly dependent on carbon and fossil fuels of the paradigm shift that climate neutrality will require. the path to climate neutrality is a complicated one and the just transition fund is here to cushion the difficulties of this change. the socialists have advocated that the transition be fair and not create more inequalities, and we will ensure that this is the case during the implementation of all the proposals and measures contained in the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the just transition fund. we are aware of the need to mobilise resources to reduce emissions and renew the necessary infrastructure. but above all, we socialists have a strong commitment to social justice and solidarity with those who have to face the most difficulties, so we will be following up the implementation of the plan and the fund in detail.
in writing. i welcome the fact that, after more than two years, the european parliament's proposal to establish a fund for the just transition of mining areas is being implemented by the european commission. it's a first step, and it's good that we have a place to start working to protect the most vulnerable citizens from the changes brought about by the transition to climate neutrality. the european commission's proposal will, however, need to be considerably improved by the european parliament. i consider the most critical aspect to be the financial overlap between the just transition fund and cohesion policy. although the ec has announced a budget of €7.5 billion for this fund, in fact the ec is relying on cohesion policy funds. the ec's proposal to transfer between 1.5 and 3 times more funds from the erdf and esf+ programmes than the allocation for the just transition fund is precisely the eu's least developed regions that will suffer the most, as is the case with oltenia.
in writing. – our citizens urge for immediate action on climate emergency. having people at heard of transition is the responsible way forward to a net-zero greenhouse gas economy. for that, we need innovative solutions, good cooperation between the eu, the member states and the local and regional authorities. this will have a transformative impact over all the european economy as well the lifestyle, including of the consumption habits – climate neutral in order that no one is left behind. a just and fair transition policy framework and a sustainable investment plan with a visible positive impact on employment will create the conditions to better align eu climate targets for 2030 and 2050. the just transition fund, composed by private and public money, should approach the problems facing workers in regions that are economically dependent on the sectors in the frontline of decarbonisation. this means providing technical assistance and supporting all efforts to transform these economies and diversify their industries. regional development based on a carefully planned restructuring process, to which renewable energy plays central role, will create also new employment opportunities. just transition is not just another transition, it is a new revolution!
in writing. the ambitious objectives of the european green deal and the just transition fund are out of the question climate neutrality by 2050, making the eu's economy more sustainable and society more equitable and prosperous are ambitious goals and the pillars that form the foundation of the green deal. however, these pillars need to be improved and strengthened further, as the distribution of wealth in europe is becoming increasingly uneven. one in ten workers in the eu is at risk of poverty! and yet the sustainable development goals are not pursued with ambition. and we know that the key to social peace and stability is social inclusion and social justice! a magical polyhedron that combines environmental, social and economic indicators must form the basis for the new green deal. the first pillar the financing of the european green deal needs to be strengthened to consider additional own financial resources, including a fair tax policy, as well as a higher contribution from the eu budget and a golden rule for public investment, in order to manage the transition fairly for all!
in writing. i'm impressed with the speeches here today. indeed, they are in line with the commission's green deal - they are just wishes, like a bad christmas card. we promise everything, but we don't know how to deliver. you put the donkey in front of the cart. you're proposing measures that speculate on the economic impact of the transition. you're pledging more than 7 billion euros to take care of those whose jobs will be lost. it's not closed because there's no work, but because a political decision has been made. and where will those billions come from? with taxes, of course. taken from those who just lost their jobs. let's face it, this is all europe, which relies on fossil fuels and heavy industries. the level of 'green' energy technology and economics cannot compensate for this volume at all. the green deal and its supporters are acting like young bolsheviks who believe unreservedly that they can turn miners into computer scientists in six months. we are here to solve the problems of european citizens, not to create new ones! thank you, thank you!
madam president, first of all, i would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims of the ukrainian passenger plane crash in iran. it's a tragic reminder of how isolated incidents can threaten public safety. i support full access to the investigation by investigators from all countries whose citizens are victims of this tragedy. the key message should be a call for de-escalation of the conflict and the refrain from unilateral actions because they have a multiplying impact on regional but also on global security. the assassination of general soleimani, regardless of his actions related to crimes with numerous victims, opened a pandora's box with unforeseeable consequences. the upcoming elections in iran and the us unfortunately present an additional challenge. i hope the latest rumor about the withdrawal of american troops from iraq will not cause new conflicts and casualties. similarly, full support for the iran nuclear deal implies the implementation of the commitments undertaken, including instex, in particular in the context of humanitarian trade. the european union needs a proactive policy, proposing diplomatic solutions that must aim at iran's compliance with the nuclear agreement. this is a real contribution to peace and security. iran definitely needs to stop the violence against protesters that we've been witnessing in the last few days. in conclusion, i believe it is time to discuss transatlantic cooperation in future sessions in a significantly changed context. it's an essential part of the formula for global security and peace.
the honorable chairman. i have been following the efforts of the iranian opposition for years, their struggle for democracy and freedom. we have also paid some attention to them in the european parliament on several occasions in recent years, but the european union's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy has a somewhat different attitude towards them. i am convinced that the european union should take a clearer stand on the side of the euro-atlantic alliance, rather than trying to mediate between the united states and iran, between the country of democracy and freedom and, on the other hand, the country which last year killed 1,500 people in protests, imprisoned 12,000, has also been very violent against protesters in recent days, while it has also attacked american bases, shot down a ukrainian plane and so on. we have no choice here, or to be a go-between, but i call on mr. borell to redefine the european union's relationship with iran.
madam president, the iranian regime deserves a full range of sanctions for its bloody actions against its own people who went into the streets to protest, as well as for a war crime which led towards the shooting down of the ukrainian civil aircraft. the eu should apply effectively a full range of sanctions against the iranian regime and provide support to the country’s civil society and opposition. staying silent and inactive, we will promote the iranian regime to commit further crimes and bring more instability to the region. let’s admit some mistakes the eu made towards iran in once having too optimistic expectations and exercise a more comprehensive policy line.
madam president, we must realize here on the floor of the european parliament that international politics is not about cheering at a football match. we don't have to have a favorite who we'll tolerate every foul and whistle at his opponent with contempt. if we respect the rules, or international law, first of all, we must all measure with the same yardstick. we must not be afraid to criticize anyone who breaks the rules. the us has clearly violated international law in its recent actions in iraq. that is not up for discussion. the shooting down of the iranian plane is also a huge mistake that must be condemned. we here on the floor of the european parliament are not here to love the united states or defend iran. our job is to clearly define ourselves against violations of international law. 2020 did not start well, and unless confidence in the functioning and validity of international law is restored, it may not end well either. yes, colleagues, we are at a crossroads, not between the us and iran, but between international law and chaos. let's choose one.
madam president, high representative borrell, the 176 fatalities of the plane shot down by an iranian surface-to-air missile last week are the tragic corollary of an action-reaction spiral. the tragedy only gets worse when we learn that the iranian authorities acknowledge the truth after the canadian prime minister has made it public, according to his own intelligence services. but it can get worse. eighteen of the dead were europeans, dozens were canadians, but most were iranians, so we are facing the certain probability of iranian protests being harshly repressed with hundreds of deaths, as we have seen in recent months, and internet shutdown. and even more: the threat to permanently cancel the 2015 nuclear agreement. we cannot afford to do so at the risk of an imminent war in the region. that is why what we can do from the european parliament is to support the diplomatic efforts that you are leading in european diplomacy, so that the european union does everything it can do and does it every second to prevent this.
madam chairman, mr. borrell, if the sensible approach fails, if the de-escalation fails, do we have a vision for action? it's time, obviously, to prepare a plan b. it's not enough to express condolences for the dead after the criminal attack on the ukrainian plane. we must tell this authoritarian and terrorist regime that if it continues its aggressive policy in the region, there will be another response, there will be a new desert storm. isn't it a paradox that the iranians themselves react more strongly against the ayatollah regime than we do? it's time to support the people who are protesting this regime. and another thing, colleagues: the anti-americanism that is also being voiced in this room in a certain sense, is not only a threat to the united states, it is a threat to us, to europe. and in this situation, we must stand with the united states.
madam president, i have decided today to speak in french because i would like to express my indignation at the idea of a multi-speed europe, of which president macron is the main promoter. european countries can indeed follow development trajectories at different speeds and this can even suit bureaucrats and administrations. however, our debate is not about the welfare of governments. it must be centred on european citizens, it must concern the peoples of europe and even the peoples of associated countries such as north macedonia or albania. people do not move at different speeds in their efforts to achieve freedom, prosperity and the rule of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
madam president! the official russian historical narrative of the causes and course of world war ii is a series of monstrous lies. they are not only designed to divert attention from the soviet union's responsibility for the outbreak of the conflict, but are primarily designed to divide the international community. especially outrageous are the accusations made against poland, which was the first and biggest victim of hitler's collusion with stalin. world war ii would not have started without the august 1939 pact between the third reich and the soviet union. no amount of lies from vladimir putin will ever change that fact. if a nation or a state cannot take responsibility for its own crimes, but instead blames the victims of those crimes, it cannot be a reliable partner in the international arena. the kremlin's lies about recent european history say a lot about what russia is today, but they say nothing about who is responsible for the hell of world war ii.
madam president, we must condemn in the strongest possible terms mr putin's attempts to deny the soviet union's responsibility for the outbreak of the second world war and for what happened after it. the bulgarian tragedy began in early september 1944, when the soviet union declared war on us. the russians and the communists call this war "liberation". that's a lie. the soviet union is imposing a criminal communist regime in bulgaria. tens of thousands of bulgarians were killed, the elite of the nation. concentration camps are opened, illegal people's court is held. today's russia, as the successor to the soviet union, owes an apology not only to poland and the baltic states, but also to bulgaria. i call on a united europe to prevent individual states from flirting with the current regime in the kremlin. we must oppose russia's hybrid war against europe. i hope that there will be no european leaders who will be at the so-called "victory parade" in moscow on 9 may this year.
madam president, last september a resolution was adopted in this chamber on the importance of european historical memory for the future of europe, where the molotov-ribbentrop pact was blamed for the second world war and communism and nazism were equated. the resolution makes no mention of the concepts of fascism, anti-fascism and anti-fascist resistance. yes, we must not deny the damaging effect of the 1939 pact, but we must not completely ignore historical facts such as the agreements concluded between nazi germany and great britain, france, denmark, poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, as well as the infamous munich agreement, predetermining hitler's further aggression. this is not about russia and russian propaganda, it's about us. by rewriting history, we are dealing a blow to our own credibility. the direct transfer of history to politics leads to the substitution of historical truth and directly to the revanchism that we already see in many countries in europe. it justifies the crimes that nazism committed against humanity and encourages the revival of neo-nazism, which we in europe must resolutely oppose.
mr president, the protection and conservation of biodiversity is essential not only for the production of food, fuel and medicines, but also for a healthy life and sustainable local family business. we need to bring together biodiversity and climate protection as part of a long—term, nature—friendly economic development. the european commission has to guarantee the biodiversity objectives, effectively monitoring key projects funded by the european union. in my home country, bulgaria, the natura 2000 safeguard mechanisms are practically not implemented due to inadequate governmental policies in the field of tourism, transport, energy, agriculture and forest protection. the recent failure with struma highway, natura 2000 mismanagement and the case of pirin national park are only some of many problems. we need strong examples to show that there is political will to achieve the eu goals and to provide strict control and monitoring of eu policies.
madam president, i am happy to support this resolution as there is no doubt that the public wishes to see transparency in these senior roles, particularly in the world of finance. since european economic and monetary union became a reality, we’ve been told by the sceptics, populists and brexiteers that it was a disaster and that the euro was certain to collapse. well, they were wrong. given the circumstances, the euro has done remarkably well and i suggest that it will still be around long after their baboonery has been forgotten. timing is everything. i appear to be the last uk mep to address this chamber. i may or may not speak again in the brussels session but if you’ll bear with me, there’s some people who need to be thanked: yourself and the other vice-presidents, and my friends, colleagues and opponents but never enemies, in this chamber. most of all, you are as good as your staff, so public thanks are in order to kay wilcox, sarah mckinley and kim chapman in my uk office, mat hogarth, sive thompson and, lately, jenny mcconnel, in my brussels team who have been challenging and fabulously loyal to the last and have shared many things, including, i’m afraid, this cold. so thank you and gan canny. when i was re-elected in may, however, i did the usual thanking of the police and the electoral staff and i forgot to mention one person who i could not have done any of this without and that of course is the absolutely fabulous jane coney. so jane, it doesn’t get more public than this. the worst aspect of this job is having to be away from you. so thank you for everything. i love you. people keep asking me what i want next, and you know, i want you.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on 3d-printed illicit objects by lucy nethsingha on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-000002/2020 (b9-0002/2020).
member of the commission. – madam president, i share this parliament’s view as it was expressed in its 2018 report that the distinguished author of the question mentioned, namely that 3d printing technology may also raise security, and especially cybersecurity, concerns, particularly with regard to the manufacturing of weapons, explosives and drugs, and any other hazardous objects, and that particular care should be taken with regard to production of that kind. the main problem with three-dimensional printed firearms is not that they are defective and therefore subject to the product liability directive. the actual problem is that these firearms were illegally manufactured and used. according to the directive on the acquisition and possession of weapons, also known as the firearms directive, the manufacturing of weapons is already illicit unless it is authorised by a competent authority of the member state where the manufacture or assembly takes place. and this applies also to manufacturing through 3d printing and using technical specifications available on the internet. monitoring of the situation is currently taking place in the context of the eu policy cycle for organised and serious international crime. the operational action plan 2020 includes an operational action aiming at raising awareness of the threat of the use of new technologies, such as 3d printers. europol issued in october last year an intelligence notification for all law enforcement authorities on this subject. the commission is preparing a report on the application of the directive, covering issues notably related to the impacts of new technologies such as three-dimensional printing. this report, which is due by september this year, will assess whether further action with respect to 3d printing is required.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, honourable members, before i begin with the substance of the matter raised by the honourable member, i would like to say to you, madam president, what i said at the last sitting and what i said in the past and what i will continue to say until action is taken. the presence of so many people, so many representatives in the chamber on a thursday, a working day, is an insult to the taxpayers and a disappointment to those people who come to watch the work of parliament. it must be changed or no meeting on thursday after noon, or daytime pay paid after the end of the meeting, or paid for half a day. such a presence and such a debate on an important subject, i say again, is an insult to the taxpayers and to the people who are watching us here. so measures must be taken. please pass this over there. now on to the topic: the entry of new technologies into all areas of our lives is undoubtedly posing new challenges. 3d printing is an important technology that has led to tremendous advances in a number of fields, including medicine, construction, and research. just as no one could have predicted the impact of the steam engine in 1750 or the printing press in 1450, so today we cannot predict what the long-term impact of 3d printing will be. it is clear that in addition to the undoubted benefits of this technology, it will also carry risks. gun printing is a niche that's not regulated and needs to be carefully examined. it's irresponsible for people with no moral compass to have access to 3d printed weapons after a few minutes of searching the world wide web. these weapons are untraceable, virtually undetectable, and can be accessed by any criminal, violent or terrorist. but i want to draw your attention to something else: the very fact that there are people who are turning to 3d printing to obtain a personal gun shows this: the laws in a number of european union member states on the possession of a personal gun are unnecessarily restrictive and hinder conscientious taxpayers who want to protect themselves and their families. in my country, bulgaria, there is a huge problem with domestic crime committed by unsocialized marginalized groups. for many citizens in small towns who do not have access to police protection, owning a personal weapon is the only way to protect themselves and their families. let me remind you that the only person who can stop a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun. whatever regulations and regulations are adopted regarding 3d printed weapons, they should not affect legally acquired weapons. there has been a lot of talk in this room about restricting the possession of hunting weapons, of sporting weapons, about restricting the use of steel bullets, replacing them with lead bullets, and other such, to put it mildly, insane restrictions that instead of benefiting citizens, burden them and destroy old, traditional sports like hunting and sport shooting. let's take serious steps to liberalize the regime for the acquisition of not only personal weapons, but also sports and collectible ones. you know the only free man is the man with the gun. (the president agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
a question asked by raising a blue card. madam chairman, i have, in addition to some kind of statement, questions for mr. jambazky. i can't understand how you can even differentiate between a normal and a printed weapon. i mean, there can't be any difference, and that's my question to mr. jambazky: does he think there's any difference between the two? the regimes are extremely strange because there is no difference between carrying and owning a gun. my understanding is that in my home, which should be inviolable and no one has the right to enter it, i can hold, if i want, a heavy machine gun. i think that's normal. maybe i just like heavy machine guns. and i don't understand these strange restrictive laws that forbid people to protect their own lives. i can give you an example from bulgaria, that in bulgaria, if someone attacks me with an axe, i have to respond with the same weapon, i.e. i probably have to put a suitcase of weapons by my bed if they come into the house.
madam president, when we are speaking about the green deal, i think that the decarbonisation of transport will be one of the biggest challenges. we know that, all the time, emissions from the transport sector have been increasing, and we also know that the need for mobility is increasing all the time. but i very much agree with the commissioner that we already have solutions available: we have alternative sustainable fuels, and here i think it is very important that we have a very technology—neutral approach, because we have very different regions in in europe and also different modes of transport with different needs. we have digital innovations, as the commissioner said, and we can make mobility more smart and effective because of these new innovations. we also have the possibility to invest more: very modern, smart, fast connections in the transport sector, and here i’m also asking for your support, madame commissioner. as you know, parliament is very willing to invest in more cross—border transport connections in europe, and now we are negotiating on the next mff, it is very important that we are really investing in transport connections also.
madam president, european citizens want to live in a peaceful world, in an ecological environment, in a socially responsible and people-centred union. quality of life, cleaner air, water are linked to a fundamental transformation in the field of transport by achieving efficient and interconnected mobility, but also clean and low-carbon mobility. we need to make every effort to make the transition from high-emission transport to zero-emission transport, such as rail. through an action plan for its revival, we must ensure that regulations are in place to unlock the potential of the passenger and freight route, improve coordination and reduce red tape. therefore, targeted investments are needed to be made in infrastructure and digitalisation to implement the transition from a road to a railway plan. we need to improve the connectivity of the european rail network so that it becomes a more attractive way to travel medium and long distances at an affordable price. finally, it is unacceptable for european citizens to be held hostage to the incompetence of their own governments, because it is absolutely unacceptable in the 21st century that the distance between two european capitals such as berlin and sofia can be covered in three or four days.
today in the cities of bulgaria thousands of representatives of small and medium businesses protested. they protested against bureaucratic arbitrariness, against the ever-increasing administrative and tax burden, against unfair and discriminatory forms of taxation, against the daily partisan political pressure and legal uncertainty reminiscent of the long-gone days of the communist regime. they protested despite the government's attempts to once again put their legitimate grievances to rest with empty promises. the european institutions are indebted to small businesses, which provide jobs and economic growth in europe, and which have helped us out of the economic crisis. our strategies and programmes to support small businesses must move beyond wishful thinking and become real, operational safeguards, real protection against the arbitrariness of bureaucrats and self-serving bosses.
the european commission has repeatedly stated that member state governments should draw up a detailed strategy for implementing the european green deal. it is a fact that some countries and regions in europe will be more affected by the implementation of these policies, and i think it is extremely important to know what the social dimensions of the future transition to a low-carbon economy will be. we need to have a clear vision of how we can transform our economy so that everyone benefits from this change, and for that we need a clear and long-term strategy prepared by member state governments. the environmental transition is an economic and social opportunity for every region in europe. the green deal is a comprehensive transformation of the european economy and should not be seen as just another decision imposed by brussels. we all together must be the engine of this plan for the future, not just passive observers.
mr president, the european institutions must protect small businesses from the greed of their own governments, from excessive administrative burdens and from an unbearable tax burden. in this important debate, my suggestion to you is to focus on the second question and consider the possibility of introducing a minimum, universal value added tax registration threshold in the european union. for example, a minimum of eur 100 000 for compulsory vat registration in every european country, because in my home country the vat registration threshold is below eur 25 000, which means that any entrepreneur who does not hide income is obliged to register. it's just not fair. i also propose that we consider the possibility of maximum vat rates for food and tourist services throughout the union, for example 10%, in order to ensure fair competition within the european union between small businesses.
madam chairman, mr. barnier, between us and great britain, there will be problems. it is now clear that they will be reflected in the negotiations for the trade agreement, but these negotiations, these problems, must not affect common interests and policy in the field of security and defence. we need to strengthen our cooperation within nato, which is the only guarantor of european and global security. we must be in a position to coordinate our relationship with britain in foreign policy. i mean the existence of hot or frozen conflicts like the russian aggression against ukraine, the crisis in syria, the tensions in the middle east, iran's policy, terrorism. the post-brexit situation actually gives us an opportunity to work better together in the european union-uk-us triangle.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has the ambition to set the global benchmark for sustainable agriculture. however, i believe that a sustainable food system can only be achieved through a holistic, balanced, equitable and coordinated approach. in order to make the transition and the strategy ambitious and achievable, they need to be provided with the necessary financial resources and a simplified regulatory framework. in this context, i call on the commission to ensure synergies between the different funding lines and the different strategies for agriculture, and to ensure strong complementarity between the policies in the different areas. there is no doubt that farmers will have a central role to play in achieving the objectives of the strategy and they should be listened to, understood, supported and encouraged, not unfairly blamed. only if all stakeholders are involved in this process can we achieve a balanced approach, an environment and a fair income for farmers.
in writing. the exploitation of child labour is completely unacceptable, no matter where in the world it takes place. shockingly, according to the international labour organization, an estimated 152 million children between the ages of 5 and 17 are victims of child labor. the alarming revelations of approximately 11 000 children subjected to extremely harsh conditions of work in madagascar's mines, and the fact that children make up about 62% of the total workforce in the mines, require immediate and urgent action. i believe that the eu cannot stand by when the facts show that children are being worked to exhaustion, dropped into unsafe mines, exposed to harsh and dangerous working conditions causing back pain, headaches due to heat and lack of water or oxygen in the mines, muscle aches, respiratory problems, danger of death from landslides. i call on the eu to encourage and support madagascar in the adoption and effective implementation of legislative policies and immediate action programmes to eradicate the exploitation of child labour and protect all children's rights. i believe that the eu, as the world's foremost defender of human rights, should take a leading role in the fight against child labour. i urge that the upcoming eu strategy for africa should place the eradication of child labour at the heart of its work.
in writing. in the last two weeks, we have faced a new wave of refugees from turkey. nearly 35,000 people are on the doorstep of europe. there are many children among them, most of them unaccompanied. while the focus is on greece, i would like to remind you that bulgaria also shares an external border with turkey, which has been used as a route to western countries before. there is also a risk of illegal migrants crossing the border between bulgaria and greece, which is 30 km from the turkish-greek border. in this context, i welcome the financial and technical assistance to greece to deal with the crisis, but i would also like to call on the commission to pay attention to the difficulties facing bulgaria in view of the risky situation. europe needs an immediate review of the dublin regulation and asylum-related legislation. the eu is a responsible partner, strictly adhering to its commitments. as such, i hope that turkey will also show itself and continue to fulfil its part of the agreement with the eu without wavering. i believe that now is the time to show solidarity and to take all the necessary actions, in the short and long term, to achieve a new ambitious migration policy that responds to today's challenges.
in writing. the commission announced that it would provide up to €700 million to greece in crisis-related aid. you call it a sign of solidarity, proof that the european union is united. it's not a good idea. this is just another attempt to solve the money problem. pouring money into greece will not change anything, just as pouring money into turkey only postponed the crisis. the problem is, once we give the blackmailer what he wants, he's gonna keep asking for more and more. turkey took the money, appropriated it, and used it to fund its war in syria. erdogan promised to use the financial aid only for projects related to refugees. that was a blatant lie! anyone who knows about budgetary finances will tell you that this money allowed erdogan to buy more missiles and drones to attack the kurds. enough of this hypocrisy. we must stop deluding ourselves that turkey is our strategic partner. at best, erdogan is a rival, and at the moment he is acting as our enemy and blackmailer. we must cut off all financial relations with turkey and impose an embargo. stop his money, and within the hour, erdogan will be on the phone, willing to compromise.
in writing. the crisis caused by the rapid spread of the covid-19 coronavirus has affected the world in an unprecedented way, which strongly indicates that the response to the pandemic must be global and well coordinated between countries. i welcome the proposed measures to mobilise investment. the swift channelling of €37 billion of european investment into the sectors experiencing the most difficulty at this critical time is vital. the outbreak in some countries is putting health and social systems in a bind and many eu smes are on the verge of survival. this calls for immediate and concrete measures, starting with the mobilisation of all available resources at eu and national level. while the epidemic crisis is escalating in some member states, others are still preparing for a peak in infection. this situation requires immediate liquidity of funds and the granting of greater flexibility to the member states in the application of the rules for the expenditure of funds provided for in the operational programmes, as well as the provision of a simplified procedure. for their part, member states should ensure that the funds reach those who need them most, such as healthcare facilities, workers at risk of losing their income, self-employed persons in need, smes, farmers, ngos involved in helping the population.
in writing. europe must stand together! solidarity must be the answer to the corona crisis. we're not getting anywhere with the national petty-petty. what is needed now is a strong europe with the ability to act and a common approach to contain the pandemic and support the people of europe. solidarity means taking money in your hands. without massive financial contributions, we as the eu will not get out of this crisis. the member states must also look to each other economically. there is no way around corona bonds and the use of the eu bailout. the financial markets must be more closely controlled to prevent any speculation at the expense of people and vital goods. solidarity also means supporting workers across europe. they must not be the losers in this crisis. the austrian model of short-time working must become a model for the whole of europe. solidarity also means looking at all the women who are particularly affected as nurses, as mothers, as supermarket saleswomen and who need our support. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of women against violence against them. all these measures must be taken urgently, because this crisis is teaching us in the most brutal way where too little has been done so far!
in writing. this parliament must find a solution for every problem detected during this crisis, to face future emergencies with greater strength. the lack of basic sanitary products has been critical from the start. it was unimaginable that the achilles heel of our healthcare systems was the lack of masks, gowns, respirators, gloves, etc. this problem has weakened the necessary european solidarity and put even more stress on our professionals, creating a dangerous situation for healthcare workers and patients. to solve this problem, our governments have launched themselves into the global market, where speculation and price abuse are on the rise. it is essential to bear in mind that the developing countries, the recipients of our cooperation, will suffer much more from these difficulties. a plan should be put in place to ensure that the eu can safely stock up on basic medical equipment in the event of future emergencies. the eu should also promote a global convention, probably within the world health organisation and the world trade organisation, to establish a catalogue of essential health products in emergencies, ensuring their rapid and safe availability, their trade protected from speculation and their ability to cross borders without tariffs or fees.
in writing. my heartfelt condolences to all those infected and fighting for their lives, as well as to their families and loved ones. my heartfelt thanks go to those who risk their lives to care for the sick, ensuring that millions of people receive basic services every day. the last few weeks have shown that we need a united europe more than ever. governments and eu institutions need to cooperate to the maximum extent possible to ensure a coordinated response to the crisis, including the use of common eu databases all the information and knowledge needed to ensure that medical goods, food and other essential goods and personnel can move freely across borders, to assess and maximise the production capacity of missing supplies, and to ensure timely supply of these supplies to meet the needs of the whole eu. the eu and its member states must use all available financial means to help the hundreds of thousands of people across europe who have lost their jobs or their income as a result of this crisis. we need a european investment package that should focus on helping small and medium-sized enterprises. this crisis is forcing us to rethink our social and economic model to make it more resilient to systemic threats - whether they are environmental, medical, economic or social. we need to reorganise our systems to take account of the resources available, the need to prevent speculation, the rules that allow for stronger regulation of monopoly sectors, the proper financing of key public services and other measures to ensure a fair and resilient society.
in writing. – on a european level, the economic and financial response to the corona virus pandemic must be massive and absolutely quick to be effective. already, a number of member states have provided a strong national response. the european central bank and the european commission have produced their own significant action strategies. all these efforts though huge are not enough. the european response still greatly falls short of the programme marshalled by the us at federal level. to catch up, the eu needs a further fiscal response that matches the us effort. it should deal with the unprecedented, total threat to the fabric of all european societies and economies created by the pandemic. unfortunately the required measures will likely get caught in the stand-off of the past years within the eurozone about further european fiscal integration. it is wrong for those who have resisted this approach, to stand against needed action to counter the pandemic because it would empower those who contest their views. it is equally wrong for the latter to use the needed anti-corona action as a tool to propel forward the reforms they support. a way must be found to mount europe’s fiscal anti-corona response as truly a crisis deal, as a one-off that leaves longstanding disputes on hold and unresolved.
in writing. mr president, the european union has once again shown that it is not prepared to deal with crisis situations. all your laws and mechanisms of rapid response and mutual aid have failed to help the italians. instead, france and germany closed their borders and stopped exporting medical equipment. you talk about solidarity, but there is no solidarity anymore. will there be consequences for those countries which have shamelessly violated the integrity of the single market? now is the time to think about the consequences of this crisis. you have to realize that greta thunberg's green dream has come true. there are no flights, the streets are empty and emissions are down. but people are locked in their homes and millions are out of work. didn't you realize that without the transportation sector, without the power plants and the miners and the big farms and the cattle ranchers, all these people would die of hunger and cold? if the green deal goes through this way, there will be no quarantine and everyone will be wandering the streets hungry. the time for sick green ambition is over. we must now harness all the financial power of the eu to help the economy, not destroy it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, covid-19 is a human, social and economic disaster of unprecedented magnitude for many of us. beyond the suffering caused by the virus around the world, the imf predicts the biggest economic crisis since the great depression. the wto even forecasts a collapse in trade in goods this year of between 13 and 32%. un agencies warn of possible food shortages. governments around the world have imposed trade restrictions that threaten to upset international value chains. some of these measures were necessary in the short term to ensure that medicines and protective equipment went to those who needed them most and not to those who offered them the most. but in the long run, it would be absurd to take protectionist measures to fight this virus or any future epidemic. if we want to get the global economy out of intensive care as soon as possible, trade is clearly part of the cure. if we allow the pandemic to quarantine trade, we are depriving entire countries, their people and their economies of one of the greatest engines of development, at a time when they need it most. resilience of global trade rules, strategic stocks and diversification of supply chains should be the keywords. it is in the genetic code of the european union to advocate multilateral solutions of cooperation. the wto agreement on the elimination of tariffs in the pharmaceutical sector must therefore be extended to include even more countries and even more products. only by working together can we truly bounce back and defeat this virus.
mr president, if this pandemic is catastrophic for the direct victims of the virus, it is and will be catastrophic for european citizens, and especially for the most vulnerable. as mrs von der leyen said, europe has already made a considerable effort, thanks to its initiative and also to our support. but, she also said, more needs to be done. i'll add that we'll have to do it differently. doing more with a more ambitious budget, doing more also with a mutualisation of debt, necessary to cope with the economic and social shock. but the key word, as everyone said today, was the word solidarity. and i will oppose the word of solidarity to austerity. we know that the best tool for solidarity is our social security system. it is our public services and the social consultation for wage setting that are working for redistribution. all this has been undermined by austerity in recent years. so we'll have to change it. european solidarity will also be expressed in a european tax system, a fairer tax system. we must put an end to this tax competition which has emptied the national and european coffers. we also need to establish extra-european solidarity because if the pandemic is catastrophic for our citizens, it is also catastrophic for other continents and it will be dramatic for africa. if the idea of aid and debt cancellation is to be supported, we must go further here too and work to prevent tax evasion, and it is also our duty to do so.
mr president, this virus knows no borders, but it does know heroes: our doctors, nurses, paramedics, pharmacists, scientists, cleaners, delivery drivers, shelf stackers. these are the global face of resilience in the toughest of circumstances. now, in the words of president steinmeier, ‘this is not a war, this is a test of our humanity and of our spirit’. this pandemic should not expose europe’s weaknesses, but it should shine a light on our strengths. member states were slower than they should have been, but the face of europe did show in the patients from bergamo being hospitalised in bavaria, romanian doctors heading to italy, equipment from lithuania to spain, maltese and italian designers now sewing surgical masks. joint procurement meant even the smallest member states could still get needed equipment. we must now extend that to the joint procurement of the vaccine, when this becomes available. european economic packages mean millions of jobs will be saved, but there are still far too many people who slip through the cracks and who find nowhere to turn. we must address them too, be flexible and continue to adapt. and finally, tied to the covid-19 pandemic is a looming humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean. we are seeing an increased number of boats fleeing libya only to remain stuck at sea, unable to disembark. a coherent european approach is urgent. meaningful solidarity is crucial. lives must be saved, and we cannot leave front-line member states like italy, greece and malta alone. these are the crises in which europe must show its true nature, and we cannot come up short, because we are all in this together and the only way out of it is together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, nothing will be the same as before. this is in the consciousness of each of us, of all of us. nothing will be the same again and it will be for everyone in every corner of the world. and so here and now is the time to ask ourselves whether europe, whether this great dream born of the wreckage of the second world war, will ever be the same again. we are talking about solidarity today, ladies and gentlemen. solidarity will be the sign of the new europe. i have no doubt that this will be the big news. but we must be careful, we are not talking about the solidarity of the stronger towards the weaker. let's not talk about that, in the near future, no one will be strong enough to do it alone. and then we talk about the solidarity that must unite all of us, all our institutions, all the member states to overcome a crisis that threatens to overwhelm all our economies, all our freedoms, all our social rights, that is what we are talking about. and then courage is needed, every possible tool is needed, every new, unprecedented tool, which courage and urgency suggest. we need that and if we do not have the courage to do that, at least that is what i have to say, mr president, then nothing will be as it was before and we cannot allow that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already said a great deal. so i might like to start with what my colleague pina picierno said in the introduction: nothing will be the same after the coronavirus crisis. and that is why the debates in the member states and the debate in this house should change somewhat. we should focus more on solutions and not just talk about old, existing problems. and that is why it is right that the resolution today focuses on two essential points: on the one hand, the point of solidarity between the member states and, on the other, the question of how we can come out of this crisis together. i would like to highlight two examples: the first is that the president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, said in her opening remarks that it was very important to her that we restore the internal market. the internal market cannot be restored by the commission standing up in recent weeks and saying at every opportunity that the member states should do everything because they have been given more flexibility in the aid law and that whenever a problem arises in the economy, the responsibility is passed on to the member states. we have seen this clearly in the field of tourism, with the package travel directive, where the commission says: this is a matter for the member states. but this is precisely what leads each member state to choose a particular solution via the aid law, which does not in the end provide the consumer with the uniformity in the internal market that he may have wanted when he booked a trip in a neighbouring country. and that is why the commission must also play its part here if it is to keep the single market together. we have shown this clearly in the medical device directive. and i think we also need a collective start out of the crisis, and that will only happen if we also create the opening together and share the data from those who may be infected together.
mr president, we welcome the efforts of the commission to provide a coordinated answer to the pandemic, but the crisis demands that we do much more and go even further. we need solid european leadership. we need to see concrete proposals from the commission to rebuild our society and our economy. i want to draw your attention to matters concerning schengen, the rule of law and freedom of expression. on borders, we felt again that the protection of borders has become bigger than the protection of european citizens and their rights. closing down the borders without a coordinated strategy has not and cannot solve any problems. the rule of law: this crisis should not take away our fundamental rights. people should not have to choose between healthcare and human rights, and my call is addressed not only to the commission but to the council as well. break the silence in the council on the rule of law. identify the problems and let’s fix them together. also, we cannot allow member states to silence freedom of expression. in some european countries people have been prosecuted because of expressing their opinions publicly, like in bulgaria. and not only there. europe must act now, as member states we should survive this crisis together in order to save europe.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic knows no borders. in recent weeks, the commission and all member states have demonstrated that well-coordinated policies at eu level and good cooperation between member states are at the heart of managing the pandemic and should be at the heart of developing a strategy to overcome its economic and social consequences. i very much welcome the actions taken so far by the commission and the member states and believe that together we can achieve even more. the health sector is still very much in need of vital equipment, protective clothing and supplies, which means that the eu and all member states must continue to work together to strengthen national health systems. a huge number of smes, hundreds of thousands of self-employed people and a huge number of workers are put in a situation of uncertainty and we need to mobilise all available instruments to be able to limit job losses and help provide the necessary liquidity for smes. special measures should target the most vulnerable and needy people and the sectors that are most severely affected, such as agriculture, transport and tourism.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i support the ep resolution on eu policy to deal with the pandemic and its economic consequences. this resolution is bold and timely, especially in paragraphs 17, 20 and 21, which call for more money in the multiannual financial framework, for a direct budgetary programme to recover the eu from the crisis. the so-called 'european marshall plan' to overcome the coronavirus crisis can only be implemented if member states understand that stable budget support is needed, not just extraordinary ecb measures and other credit programs. the 'green recovery' policy, which includes the modernisation of european energy and industry in the rescue package, also requires direct eu budget support. the only thing missing from this resolution is a clear statement that the ep will not compromise on its position on the ep budget. that this is not another empty 'call' and 'request' but a firm and firm political position in defence of eu citizens and the most affected regions, small businesses and families. today is the time for the european parliament to show that it is not a talking shop or a consultative body, but a true representative of the citizens of europe and a guarantor of the unity of the eu. thank you!
in writing. the commission has drawn up a good exit plan, which the member states must now follow. the dismantling of restrictive measures must avoid the europe-wide mistakes of delay and lack of cooperation in their implementation. it is now time for the member states to coordinate together, using the same criteria and following the same logic. the virus is global, so our actions must be transnational. science must be given a central role and the recommendations of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and the world health organization (who) must be heeded. the importance of information in considering measures is essential. this is a new virus, but the information is available and the picture is constantly updated. if the too rapid removal of restrictions fails, we will be faced with a second wave of disease that is many times worse both humanly and economically. timing is critical when we're considering a gradual lifting of the containment measures. the landing must start with measures with local effects and be gradually extended to a geographically wider area. the return to work must be phased in to allow organisations to adapt to the increased activity. a common european approach is developed based on an analysis of the number, intensity and capacity of existing healthcare systems. it is clear that if one country does not act carefully and moves too quickly, the risk of a new outbreak is real throughout europe. we've seen how the virus knows no borders, no countries, no continents. mr president, the corona crisis has finally shown that we need a european infectious diseases regulation and a proper agency to deal with it on a scientific basis.
in writing. people must be at the centre of the fight against the coronavirus and its consequences. the socialist group agrees with this in this resolution. that is why we are voting in favour. but there's more. parliament has decided that the money released should benefit various sectors, populations and regions, including the overseas parts of the kingdom. the labour party's line that aid should not be used for bonuses or dividend payments to shareholders has been adopted. on the other hand, financial support will be given to workers who become partly unemployed and the green deal remains a priority. we are also stronger together in producing and distributing medical equipment, vaccines and medicines. it is essential that countries recognize that they are interdependent in this crisis: that is why we support proposals such as the recovery bonds. we have also seen that member states, such as hungary, are using this crisis to undermine democracy. that is totally unacceptable to us. we welcome the inclusion of debt relief for developing countries in this resolution. finally, special attention is paid to the most vulnerable, such as women and children who are victims of violence. they always deserve our support, crisis or not.
in writing. first of all, i would like to thank all those who are risking their lives to help fight the virus and ensure that the most essential services are provided to the population. your selfless work is vital to saving lives and overcoming this crisis. we are faced with a situation that current decision-makers have not experienced before. however, the world has not stopped, and both the lithuanian authorities and the european union are doing the maximum possible under the current circumstances. the unity of the european union and the solidarity of the states are very important factors in improving the efficiency of decisions and mitigating the consequences of the pandemic across europe. this pandemic has shown that we need a unified european response mechanism to health crises to help protect the health of citizens quickly and effectively. we also need a much more resilient economy, a sustainable economy that is able to adapt more flexibly to challenges and to ensure the production of basic goods and services. europe is currently too dependent on imports, even though most of the goods imported could be produced or grown in our countries. the difficulties are less pronounced where local production, including agriculture and food production, is strong and developed. the crisis has affected everyone, and only collective action can help the economy recover. no country can be left behind, as this solidarity will become the key measure of confidence in the future of the european union.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of this resolution, fine-tuning the parliament’s responses to the crisis. however i put on record the following reservations: --we might be grossly underestimating the medium term impact of the pandemic, health wise; as they now stand, there is little to no safety margin in resource measures on line that could compensate eventually for this; --we are likely underestimating the ripple effects resulting from the economic downturn as well as possibly its actual extent, even if the public health situation improves overall according to the available best case scenarios; --the financial ‘bazooka’ being used on a european level is not (big) impressive enough, even if added to the national efforts by member state governments, especially when compared with that of the us. moreover the way it was negotiated and agreed betrays the lack of a common vision regarding the objectives that are being set; --the so-called north-south controversy is obscuring the probability that contrary to the 2008 financial crisis, knock-on and knockdown effects will this time swing from south to north, vice versa, and back, since both production and demand have been hit deeply within our single market which over the last ten years, has become increasingly services oriented.
in writing. the eu has an important role to play in the fight against covid-19 and its consequences. the danish social democrats are therefore very pleased that they have been able to reach agreement on ambitious economic aid packages for the member states. and it is good when danish tripartite negotiations on wage compensation inspire the launch of sure. at the same time, we welcome the eu's leadership in coordinating the purchase of protective equipment and medical equipment, the building of pan-european stocks to prepare us for future health crises, and the creation of 'green corridors' at border crossings to ensure that european citizens do not experience shortages of goods and that our healthcare workers continue to receive vital equipment. although health policy is and should remain largely a national concern, eu cooperation can support member states' response to the pandemic and mitigate the long-term economic consequences through sound decisions. that is why we support the joint motion for a resolution. the resolution is not without problems, however. it is very worrying when the current crisis is used to push for deeper european integration. this is not the time. we also have reservations about the unequivocal support for increasing the overall framework of the erdf and the proposal for pan-european bonds.
in writing. i am deeply disappointed by the chaotic reaction of the european parliament during the crisis. at the moment, hundreds of thousands of people are fighting for their lives and their bread and we need to discuss concrete and reasonable measures to help them. i welcome the release of over 3 trillion euros to fight the pandemic and to rebuild the economy. that's reasonable. probably not enough, but it's a start. but i cannot understand this obsession with the green deal and its implementation. - what? we're living in her world now. there are no flights, the streets are empty, and life has stopped. many of you, dear colleagues, have suggested that we put the green deal as the backbone of our new economy and concentrate our finances on it, but no one mentioned the culture and the artists who are suffering the most at the moment. i want to remind you that culture is the area that was hit first by the pandemic and will be the last to recover. the measures proposed so far are far from sufficient. culture and artists are the heart and soul of europe, don't let them die while you pursue green dreams.
mr president, another sector of workers that has been hit very hard by this pandemic is the media. journalists also continued to risk their lives in their work. but, of course, as we know, advertising, and thus the companies' income, has fallen. i therefore, together with other colleagues from this house, urge the commission not to leave the media houses sector alone, and to see what financial support they need, amongst whom, for example, there are those who have suggested a permanent fund for journalism. we must remember that the media play a crucial role in democracy. and no member state can afford to have a weak media in its own country. i am very afraid that the financial crisis brought on by this pandemic is having a very bad effect on the media, and therefore also on the democracies of different countries. i will continue to work with my colleagues in this house to get this help as quickly as possible so that we can have a stronger democracy.
mr president, life and health have no price. we should spare no resources for the recovery. but the most vulnerable cannot recover as fast as the strongest. europe on different speeds, europe at 27 speeds, is not acceptable. let me highlight three questions. first, the recovery plan should not be agreed by government behind closed doors. the plan must be subject to strong democratic oversight by the parliament. second, it’s very important that the resources, the funds, reach those in need and not some oligarchs. the commission needs to monitor for real how member states are using those funds. my last point is on the rule of law. if we allow any further deterioration on the rule of law, we risk reaching the point of no return. i urge the commission to provide dedicated financial support to free and independent media.
in writing. one of the main principles on which the union is built is the principle of solidarity, and i believe this should be clearly demonstrated in the eu's response to the covid-19 pandemic, the immediate measures to contain the crisis and the development of a long-term plan for recovery and support for the most affected countries and regions. the health crisis has put many citizens in an extremely difficult social and financial situation, put pressure on businesses and put severe strain on the health, social and economic systems of countries. i urge the commission to propose an ambitious but at the same time realistic mff and recovery plan that also meets the union's commitments to move towards a sustainable, circular economy. i believe that this can be done by including in the mff the budget for the new recovery fund. the budget of the mff should be increased and new own resources added to it in order to avoid placing an additional financial burden on the budgets of the member states. the design of measures and their financing should be based on the desire to prevent the deepening of social inequalities and unemployment caused by the crisis, to return to stable economic growth, to strengthen the social and economic cohesion of regions and countries and to fully restore the union's competitiveness.
in writing. as a hungarian, i would like to help my colleagues from the european people's party, fidesz, to inform them about the hungarian law on protection against coronavirus. in our written comments, we make the full text of the law available to you. please read it, make sure that it is written in accordance with democratic principles. this act establishes special rules relating to emergency situations (hereinafter referred to as emergency situations) in order to prevent or prevent the consequences of a human epidemic causing a mass disease endangering the safety of life and property and to protect the health and life of hungarian citizens, as provided for in regulation no 40/2020 (iii. 11) of the government on the declaration of an emergency situation (hereinafter referred to as the regulation). article 2 (1) in an emergency situation, the government may, in addition to the exceptional measures and rules laid down in act cxxviii of 2011 on disaster protection and amending certain related laws, suspend the application of certain laws, derogate from statutory provisions and take other exceptional measures by decree in order to guarantee the safety of life, health, person, property and rights of citizens and the stability of the national economy. (2) the government may exercise its powers under paragraph 1 to the extent necessary and proportionate to the objective pursued for the purpose of preventing, treating, eradicating and preventing or combating the harmful effects of a human disease under the regulation.
in writing. as a hungarian, i would like to help my colleagues from the european people's party, fidesz, to inform them about the hungarian law on protection against the coronavirus. in our written comments, we make the full text of the law available to you. please read it, make sure that it is written in accordance with democratic principles. act xii of 2020 on protection against coronavirus1 in order for the government to take all necessary emergency measures to prevent or overcome the consequences of the human epidemic of mass illness caused by covid-19 infection in 2020, bearing in mind in particular the possibility that the session of the parliament may be suspended as a result of the human epidemic, aware that responsible decisions must be taken in times of emergency and that the measures taken so far and those potentially ahead of us seem unusual and foreign restrictions, but their observance, coherence and discipline may be the most important strength of the hungarian force, the joint action, the national health, law enforcement and maintenance of those working in the health and maintenance of the workforce, and the government, with the aim of establishing a framework for the recognition of all victims and the work of the government in the next constitutional crisis, will have the power to determine the constitutional order of 2020.
in writing. as a hungarian, i would like to help my colleagues from the european people's party, fidesz, to inform them about the hungarian law on protection against coronavirus. in our written comments, we make the full text of the law available to you. please read it, make sure that it is written in accordance with democratic principles. article 3 (1) the national assembly, pursuant to article 53 (3) of the basic law, authorises the government to extend the validity of government decrees pursuant to article 53 (1) and (2) of the basic law in emergency situations until the emergency situation ceases. (2) the national assembly may withdraw its authorisation under paragraph 1 before the emergency situation has ceased. the following table is added: the national assembly shall confirm the government decrees pursuant to paragraph 1 which were drawn up after the entry into force of the regulation until the entry into force of this act. § 4 the government shall regularly inform the president of the parliament and the leaders of parliamentary groups at a session of the parliament of the measures taken to prevent the emergency situation until the measures are maintained in force. article 5 (1) the president of the constitutional court (hereinafter referred to as the president) and the secretary-general of the constitutional court shall ensure the continuous functioning of the constitutional court in emergency situations and shall take the necessary organisational, operational, administrative and decision-preparation measures for this purpose. (2) the plenary session of the constitutional tribunal and the session of the council may be held by electronic means of communication, subject to the decision of the president, until the emergency situation has ceased. the following table is added: the president may, in an emergency, authorise a derogation from the rules of procedure of the constitutional tribunal.
in writing. i don't have to convince anyone that orbán can't be stopped by politeness. the hungarian prime minister has already acted out many times that he is behaving like a cultured politician in europe, and then at home, behind your back, he insults the european union, european values, and does everything to turn hungary into a dictatorship. orbán only knows strength. his politics are motivated by money, to steal as much as he can, and he's proving that every day during this pandemic, under the authority of the authorization act. he's making a series of decrees that have nothing to do with the pandemic, but are designed to enrich his cronies and further undermine democratic values. we have to stop convincing each other that we're moaning in one of these debates, that orbán is going against everything we value. it's just got to be stopped. not months from now, not giving me all sorts of ultimatums, but right now. the hungarian prime minister's policy of stealing could easily be stopped. it should be excluded from the allocation of union funds. that's what orbán means. nothing else is going on. if you really care about our shared values, let's not delay any longer and let's make payments based on the rule of law. that is what the hungarians expect, because it is in our interest, in the interest of all europe.
in writing. – arresting people for giving their opinion. blocking the istanbul convention for ‘promoting gender ideology’. banning legal gender recognition for transgender people. these are some examples of measures taken since hungary declared an indefinite state of emergency under the guise of combatting the covid-19 pandemic. none of these decisions prevent the virus from spreading. all they prevent is people from being themselves, being protected and speaking their minds. hungary is not a democracy anymore. in the past ten years, we saw how an eu member state put an end to its rule of law. we just stood by and watched. even after the latest developments, the eu is not able to take action. in a statement calling for proportionate crisis measures, the commission president managed not to mention the country it was all about: hungary. still, there is no infringement procedure and no progress in the article 7 procedure. how many more warnings, letters and expressed concerns do we need? let this ‘state of emergency’ finally be the reason to take real action. the longer we wait, the higher the chance we miss our last opportunity to make a difference for the hungarian people.
in writing. we are again engaged in a meaningless debate. now is the time for swift and meaningful action. we need to discuss concrete measures to save lives and restore the economy. instead, you decided to settle your old scores with hungary and orbán. you speak out against so-called tyranny, but in fact you use your position to punish those member states that refuse to join your dream of an empire europe and its 'new values and morals'. why else are we hearing about the istanbul convention today? it has nothing to do with the current crisis or the emergency measures in hungary. fellas, once again you're using real problems to push leftist ideas. you don't care about civil rights and liberties. you care about your political goals. where are the accusations against the socialist government in spain and their disinformation campaign? why are you only leaping at the hungarian measures to combat fake news? isn't the whole eu against disinformation? it is hypocritical, colleagues, to hide behind a false concern for the constitutional rights of the hungarians, but to ignore the attempts of the count to circumvent the italian constitution. deal with the real problems in the eu. let's get back to doing something meaningful and socially useful.
madam president, it is clear that the negotiations so far have not made the necessary progress. the uk side takes the maximalist approach, which allows it to benefit fully from the single market without committing itself to any obligations. and we regret to note that the free movement of people will not be extended and will be terminated after the transition period. concerns about the rights of eu citizens are growing even more because i see that in the course of the negotiations the uk is adopting national legislation that is going in the direction of restricting those rights. moreover, the replacement legislation is moving faster than the negotiations themselves. i believe that, at the increased risk of no agreement, the european union should press for a future partnership with ambitious provisions on the movement of people, based on full reciprocity and non-discrimination and guaranteeing all the rights of european union citizens.
in writing. tourism is an important sector in terms of the number of workers and gross domestic product, in some countries exceeding 15%, but also as a social bridge. unfortunately, the policies that affect the largest number of citizens, education, health, tourism, are not within the competence of the union. the european commission has already drawn up recommendations for tourism to help the sector emerge from the covid-19 crisis. to withstand other crises, to have a common approach, to attract as many tourists as possible from outside europe, we need to have a common tourism policy with harmonised rules, with categories of tourism entities enjoying the same standards of operation and infrastructure. at the moment we do not have a similar approach to the protection of tourists or staff, because all these things are up to each member state. in this case, a solution must be found which does not involve a change of the treaty but rather indirect ways. in tourism we have the provisions relating to consumer protection, which is a sector of shared competence. starting from the protection of tourists, we could even arrive at some of their rights, as in the case of passengers.
in writing. the negative impact of the pandemic on tourism continues at a pan-european level and is now reflected in the figures for the first quarter of 2020. in greece, which is one of the most popular tourist destinations, there has already been a decrease in incoming tourism by 5.6% while in the corresponding receipts the decline reaches 17.1% compared to the same period of 2019. the greek government has shown that it is championing the control of the pandemic, which is an optimistic prelude to the resumption of the tourist season, an important factor in the economy of greece and the eu. however, at this very critical time, one step before the general opening of the tourist season, liquidity is still needed. greece has supported the european recovery plan from the outset, but the tourism sector needs immediate funding, with subsidies that will allow all tourism businesses to reopen normally and hundreds of thousands of people to return to their jobs. it is our duty to reverse the liquidity crisis, which has put at serious risk the viability of the industry the next day. the eu must lead this effort with the necessary funds in the form of pre-financing, which will lead to the preservation of the competitiveness of greek and european tourism.
in writing. the eu is now taking the first step towards developing a european strategy for tourism. it should ensure a coordinated approach across the union and all member states in an area that is essential for our economy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on sustainable tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on sustainable tourism. the commission's communication on tourism and transport and the package of measures to overcome the coronavirus crisis in these areas are welcomed. i believe that, in addition to emergency intervention, we need a long-term approach. now 6.5 million jobs in tourism are at risk, tens of thousands of smes risk closing their doors. the most critical moments are still ahead of us, and the immediate measures proposed by the commission, implemented in close cooperation with the member states, could ensure the return of the tourism sector and save many businesses and jobs.
we can now move on to the debates on our agenda and, as you know, we will begin with a joint debate on the statements by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, whom i thank for his presence, on the consequences of the covid-19 crisis for foreign policy (2020/2646 ((rsp))), also on the national security law of the people's republic of china for hong kong and the need for the european union to defend the high degree of autonomy of hong kong (2020/2665 ((rsp)) and also on the european union's response to the possible annexation of the west bank by israel (2020/2687 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there will be no 'catch the eye' or 'blue card' questions in this joint debate. with that said, i now give the floor to mr josep borrell, vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, whom i thank once again for his presence.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe. mr. president, we have three issues to discuss. i will go directly to the three of them. first, from the european union response to the coronavirus crisis, it is clear that the global pandemic needs global solutions, and the european union must be at the centre of the response. to do so, in april we launched a team europe response to support our partner countries facing the pandemic. i have already presented this in your committee meetings. on 8 june, we discussed at the foreign affairs council on development how to move forward quickly and we mobilised eur 35 billion to help the most vulnerable countries in africa, latin america and our neighbourhood. one could say that it is not fresh money but just redirecting already allocated resources, but anyway, it was very important to give priority to the pandemic. the extension of the key european union programmes for refugees is also crucial during this crisis, and we appreciate parliament's efforts to approve the necessary draft amending budget in july to allocate more than eur 400 million in support of syrian refugees. in the new mmf proposal, we have included a top-up for external action policies, financed through the next generation european union instrument. part of this funding will go to humanitarian aid, and part to the provision of a higher ceiling for the external action guarantee under the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici). we have also provided for an additional provisioning of eur 10.5 billion, and with that, we could provide guarantees up to eur 130 billion under european fund for sustainable development plus (efsd+) operations, as well as additional macro-financial assistance and loans to third countries. this will allow us to help to boost sustainable and green investment in our partner countries worldwide. i hope i can count on your support so that we can maintain an ambitious level of resources for our eu external action. let me say that it is badly needed because this crisis will be a crisis of biblical consequences. look at the situation, for example, in latin america, where things are becoming worse. happily, in africa, things are not as bad as expected. but, in general, both health and economic consequences of this crisis will be very important and, i am afraid, long lasting. the second issue in our debate today is about the people's republic of china and the national security law for hong kong. let me frame my answer on a very evident fact. covid has accelerated existing trends, with tensions between china and the us growing by the day, and i want to repeat what i have already said and written many times: that europe needs to find its own way when it comes to balancing its relations towards both actors. yesterday, the french minister of foreign relations was saying more or less the same thing in the french press and i think it's quite a shared point of view at the foreign affairs council. but independence does not mean equidistance. the transatlantic partnership remains the most important and strategic relationship for the european union. we maintain divergences with the current administration in the us, that's clear, evident, with regard to their stand on multilateralism about the international criminal court, for example, the last one. nevertheless, we seek positive engagement wherever possible. our relationship with china does not fit into a single category. i am sorry for the people who would like to have simple schemes. this is not possible. this is complex, and complex it will remain, and it needs to be based on trust, transparency and reciprocity. china is clearly a necessary partner, like it or not, to solve global challenges such as the global pandemic and climate change. no one can imagine that we can solve climate change without a strong commitment from china's side. at the same time, human rights remain a contentious issue in our relations. i raised these concerns on the situation in hong kong with the chinese foreign minister last week. we had a long conversation: more than three hours face to face. i think it was a useful and frank conversation about all issues of a complex relationship and, for sure, the adoption of a security law for hong kong is not in conformity with china's international commitments, particularly under the sino-british joint declaration enshrined in the basic law of hong kong. pressure on hong kong's autonomy and fundamental freedoms affect us directly. it's not just a matter for the hong kong people. it's a matter of values, principles and the need to uphold international commitments, seriously undermining the "one country, two systems" principle and hong kong's autonomy. as you may be aware, i made this point very clear in my declaration on behalf of the eu27 on 22 and 29 may. on that issue, there was unanimity, something that is less and less frequent in the debates at the foreign affairs council. i also raised these matters in the united nations security council when i had the opportunity to address this body, on the very day this decision was adopted. i am at your disposal during the question and answers to discuss the specific measures taken by the eu and to go deeper into this issue. on the third point, on the possible israeli annexation of the west bank: let me turn now to this issue, the possible annexation by israel of parts of the occupied palestinian territory. there, our position is clear, although, once again, its difficult to find unanimity. but there is very much a strong majority of countries that continue to support a negotiated two-state solution based on international parameters and considering that any annexation would be against international law. consequently, we strongly urge israel to refrain from any unilateral decisions that would lead to this annexation of any part of occupied palestinian territory. i had the opportunity of expressing this point of view in my phone calls to the new ministers of foreign affairs and of defence of israel. this would constitute a serious violation of international law. in march, in geneva, 27 member states agreed on that. at the last foreign affairs council, unfortunately, unanimity was not found on this same issue, but as i said, very much a strong majority of countries continue to support this principle. second, this would cause real damage to the prospects for a two-state solution. third, it would negatively affect regional stability, our relations with israel, and between israel and arab states, and potentially the security of israel, which is something not negotiable for us. let me stress that too. and finally, from a european union perspective, annexation would inevitably have significant consequences for the close relationship we currently enjoy with israel. my time is reaching the end. i will stick to my time. i will not prejudge today the specific impact of a possible annexation, but let me underline that the european union has its own obligations and responsibilities under international and european law, and as agreed in the mid-may foreign affairs council, we engage with our israeli partners to avoid such a step before its too late. we are using all our diplomatic capacities in order to put pressure for that not to happen. as i said, i opened a constructive conversation with alternate prime minister gantz and foreign minister ashkenazi, where i expressed in the same terms as i explained to you the gravity of such an announcement. i have also been in close contact with the palestinian leadership and other key arab representatives. several eu foreign ministers passed the same messages on, and we held an important discussion with the us secretary of state mike pompeo earlier this week. this issue took an important part of the one-and-a-half-hour discussion with mike pompeo. in the coming weeks and months, we will continue engaging with the parties and the international community in support of a negotiated two-state solution based on the international parameters and which ensures equal rights for all. thank you very much, mr. president, for giving me half a minute more. thank you for your attention. i need to stop here. i think my time is over, but i will remain at your disposal for the many issues i am sure you will raise during our dialogue.
thank you very much, mr vice-president, for your statements on very important subjects.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as i am convinced that we should stand up for fostering the european union strategic autonomy for promoting multilateral solutions and for defending our interests in a spirit of solidarity, i welcome today’s debate on the foreign policy consequences of the covid—19 pandemic. we all know that this pandemic will not only lead to more medical, social and economic changes of a tremendous dimension, but it will also, as the high representative and vice—president, josep borrell, has pointed out, also be a potential geopolitical game changer. to name just a few examples, we are witnessing the deterioration of democracy and fundamental freedoms in many parts of the world, increasing disinformation campaigns, as well as cyber—attacks and isolationism instead of multilateral cooperation. as the european parliament, we should make clear that unprecedented global threats arising from the pandemic call for strong and coordinated measures. i welcome that, in the months and weeks to come, all the committees for external policies in our parliament want to focus even more on our global response. with today’s debate, but also with upcoming hearings as well as the reports the respective committees are working on, hopefully we can highlight the importance of the foreign policy dimension for the fight against a global pandemic and we can send a strong signal of solidarity with our partners across the world.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the implications of covid—19 on foreign affairs are multiple; from international relations and trade development to the future of the multilateral order in general. we have to take up full responsibility to lead the global fight against the pandemic that will be based on our core values and principles. our priorities should be to assist the most vulnerable communities, promote access to the vaccine, support a ceasefire and keep medical equipment and food supply chains open for everybody. at the same time, we cannot set aside our interests. this is why the fight against disinformation has to be our priority. we welcome the new communication and expect it to boost our resilience. finally, in a sincere multilateralist spirit of close cooperation with key global institutions such as the un, the who and the g20, we must act to help our international partners dealing with the consequences of this pandemic and lead the way towards sustainable development as a core principle for recovery.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, mr borrell, colleagues, the fundamental crisis, which has captivated the globe is driven by the covid-19 pandemic. but it’s also characterised by two novel features. it’s the first international crisis, since decades, in which the united states withdraws from any possible international leadership role, while china has been at the centre of this crisis, more than ever before, and this is not for the better. this situation reflects the ongoing continental drift in international relations. on the one hand, we have a hegemonic battle between two superpowers, on the other, international institutions are being weakened - in particular multilateral institutions - and undermined. through the impact of the crisis, these tendencies are being accelerated. for our eu this constitutes an imperative to step up to the plate and to shoulder our own international obligations more confidently. we have a mixed record. we failed when we imposed import-export bans for ppes. we did well when the commission organised a donors’ conference for financing vaccine research and we will lead a coalition at the who to require an inquiry into the origin and the spread of the pandemic. but the challenges are many and they are huge. battling for our values and our interests means finding allies and showing our opponents that we mean business. and let me end by making a remark regarding hong kong. i welcome the recent statement by the g7. through our resolution, this ep will say that the eu will not just criticise. we want china to understand that reneging on international obligations doesn’t come free of cost. this message should be shared with chinese leaders at the eu summit on monday.
mr president, mr vice-president, the european union must show the world that it is unacceptable to use the fight against the pandemic as an excuse to weaken the rule of law. now more than ever, the union's foreign policy must be guided by its founding values: the defence of human rights and democratic freedoms. and it is necessary that the union's representatives in the world can represent these principles in a credible way. this week we have seen some cia documents from the 1980s which indicate that the spanish government, headed by felipe gonzález, agreed to form a mercenary group, the gal, to fight terrorism outside the law. in short: state terrorism. and in 1998 you publicly showed your solidarity with a minister and a secretary of state a few days after they were sentenced to prison for the case. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would ask the speaker to respect the items on our agenda, otherwise the intervention will undermine the agenda that has been set. would you finish your speech, please?
mr president, with all due respect, but with all the ethical demands and political force, i ask you: do you confirm your support for those responsible for state terrorism? the eu's response depends not only on its legitimacy as a high representative but also on the credibility of the union as a whole in the eyes of the international community.
i would remind all members that a three-point agenda has been agreed for our discussion and that, of course, speeches on topics which are not on the agenda represent a subversion of the agenda which is posted. so i ask that you respect the agenda of our meeting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the economic impact of the covid-19 crisis is causing further political destabilisation of states and entire regions already affected by crises and conflicts. some actors are trying to carry out their planned agendas in the shadow of the crisis without attracting much attention. we should fight it! china needs to be reminded that the agreement with the uk regarding hong kong is an international legally binding agreement deposited with the united nations and not a historical document. it is good that political representatives from europe are now travelling to israel or are holding video-conferences to make it clear to the prime minister in particular that annexations which are contrary to international law can also have unexpected consequences of various kinds, both near and far. please, back off! in transformation states like ukraine, georgia and moldova, we must call out to all those who want to consolidate their own oligarchic interests in the shadow of the crisis: the eu stands with the true reformers and implements the agreed cooperation and reform agenda with them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. even without corona, this year would be one of the worst human disasters on this planet in decades. if 80 million people were at risk of immediate starvation a few years ago, even without corona, 120 to 130 million people would be at risk this year. environmental disasters and military conflicts make a difference. corona will double that number: more than 260 million people are directly affected by hunger, by mass deaths. it's good that we've mobilized resources very quickly, but do you have a number, an order of magnitude of collective effort available that will be needed to prevent mass extinction, so that we know what we're talking about this year? can you tell us something about the sanctions policy against iran, against venezuela? i do not want to go into the full range of the political debate, but it is clear that the european union must do everything possible to combat the pandemic and hunger there too, regardless of what other international actors think.
mr president, i would like to say to mr borrell that, as you mentioned yourself, the impact of the covid—19 crisis on the international stage isn’t yet fully clear, but it will be huge. that’s for sure. let me take the example of china because it’s in front of us of course. even before the pandemic, we had huge problems in our relationship with china. i am thinking about human rights, trade relations and the fact that it’s a state-led economy, just to mention a few. during the covid crisis these problems have only increased. they have bombarded europe with fake news, they were not transparent on how to deal with the covid crisis within their country, and there was of course the knowledge that we now have that we are too dependent on china, for instance for protective material when it comes to a health crisis. so let’s be very clear, mr borrell. trade policy is the most important and the most powerful tool that we have within foreign policy and we need to bind them together, not just paying lip service to human rights and at the same time having normal trade relations with china. we need to fundamentally rethink how we look at china.
mr president, i want to highlight three aspects, briefly, of the external dimension of covid-19. on the one hand, the crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of global health governance. international institutions have not been able to effectively ensure either information exchange or coordination in the fight against the virus. the second point i would like to stress is the excessive dependence of europe on the outside world. we must achieve a high level of health autonomy. we cannot continue to rely on third countries in strategic areas such as the procurement of medical supplies or active pharmaceutical ingredients for the manufacture of medicines. it is sufficient to note that 80% of the world production of these pharmaceutical ingredients is concentrated in india and china. on the other hand, it is clear that we must help third countries - especially our african neighbours - in their fight against the crisis and i therefore welcome the fact that the union's response has allocated a significant financial contribution to the fight against the pandemic in third countries. and that's the end of it. unfortunately, in the last two decades, we've had one pandemic after another. incomprehensibly, this latest covid-19 has caught us by surprise, again. we live in a hyper-connected, globalized world. viruses know no borders. the next health crisis must be tackled in a more coordinated and effective way.
mr president, mr high representative, i would like to thank you for your reply. the truth is that the pandemic has not only posed the greatest health and economic challenge of the last century to humanity, but it has also highlighted the enormous weaknesses and contradictions of our current model of international governance. probably trends we've seen before: a glaring lack of global leadership, very weakened multilateral organizations, and a worrying - and with enormous risks - tension between great powers. but europe can also draw a few lessons on how to act now abroad. we need europe to take responsibility for revitalizing and reforming multilateral structures more than ever, because for global challenges like pandemics, like climate change, like inequality, or setting standards for globalization, we need cooperation; and competition doesn't do us any good. and europe must find its own way, its own way, as the only way to defend its values and its interests in the world. it is also a time to look for allies and support them in times like the present, like latin america, which is currently suffering severely from the consequences of the pandemic.
mr. chairman, mr. borrell, let us congratulate the citizens of hong kong who are defending their rights and freedoms trampled underfoot by the chinese parliament after the passage of the repressive national security law. as a representative of a country which has lived through the horrors of totalitarian communist rule, i call on the commission and the council, and on all members of the european parliament, to give up the illusion that we can build friendly relations with communist china. we must firmly protect the freedoms of hong kong citizens. our values require that we make clear to the regime in beijing that we are able to cut investment deals with it, restrict our trade relations, and we can implement a policy of sanctions against its officials, as we did after the russian aggression against ukraine. sanctions are the only peaceful tool to bring the surviving communist dinosaurs of the 21st century to their senses.
madam president, for over four months we have been fighting an unprecedented pandemic that has changed our lives dramatically and forced us to adapt to a new normal. the virus has left a massive and devastating impact, but we have managed to stay united in solidarity. however, the covid pandemic is not the only battle we are fighting. we are witnessing an enormous wave of disinformation about the coronavirus, aims at portraying us as ineffective and divided in our response. the disinformation campaigns are particularly strong in the western balkans, where they aim at destabilising the region and turning public opinion against the european union. although the european union provided an unparalleled support of eur 3.3 billion to the western balkans during the crisis, the polls still show that a majority of citizens think that other regional powers provided more. the best way to fight disinformation is with transparency, accountability and increased visibility. therefore, i welcome the efforts of the east stratcom task force and the eu rapid alert system that fact check and share genuine information. but we, as representatives of european citizens, should also go the extra mile. (the president cut off the speaker)
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this very interesting and important debate. i am sure this is not the last time we debate about the power of the internet, and for a very good reason, because we see the power of it every day. we see that the internet can serve as a fantastic tool to organise humanitarian aid, but also the internet can be the place where some humanitarian disaster and real fight and violence can be incited. so i think that this is a very serious topic to discuss. we have only started, as i said before, because ahead of us is the work on the european democracy action plan, where we will speak about a very serious issue: how to protect the elections against disinformation, how to stop something i call privatisation of public debate, because we see the phenomenon of the algorithms, which are used to sell products, but which are also used to sell politicians. we face the new factor of lying in the political debate, which has the potential to win elections. we will have to discuss all these very substantial but at the same time sensitive issues. so i look very much forward to the discussion. i look very much forward to cooperation with the committee which you have established, and i’m sure that by the end of this year we will not only see how we are fulfilling the tasks from the communication we speak about today, because there is a to-do list, but also that we are able to come to a good common solution on the issues i mentioned before.
josep borrell fontelles,vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. thank you very much for this debate, which certainly has not exhausted the subject. there have been very important, interesting contributions. something very original, like tracing the origins of misinformation back to adam and eve. it had not occurred to me that adam was, in effect, a victim of misinformation spread by eve, who failed to warn him of the consequences of eating the apple. well, yes, it's possible that eva was the victim of misinformation. but today, in our world, we have to recognize something that i think is at the heart of our debate. democracy is a system that works based on information that citizens have. the citizens choose. and to choose, they need to be informed of the options that are presented to them and to evaluate the actions of governments, and that requires freedom of information, plurality of information and truthfulness in information. if citizens are given misinformation, they can't make good choices, because it's like an airplane that has a bad navigation system. it's going to crash. and that is why it is so important that we fight to ensure that information, understood as a public good, is available to citizens and that they have verification systems that allow them to know if someone is telling them a milonga, if someone is lying to them. because i don't believe - whatever the austrian poet in question says - that there is a part of truth and a part of lies in everything. well, no, i did not. look, there are things that are clearly true and other things that are clearly false. that 2 and 2 is 4 in the base 10 system, that has nothing wrong with it, it's 100% true. and some things are absolutely false, no matter who says it. that there are elements of opinion in some information in which one can be for or against for reasons of taste, opinion, ideological inclination... true, of course. otherwise, there would be no political debate. but it is one thing to assess the facts and another to be the facts. and as my colleague has said, we do not intend to create a ministry of truth. she already had one in her country; i had one in spain, too, when there was a ministry of information. no, we don't intend to create the ministry that controls what we can and cannot know. we want to help citizens to be able to distinguish truth from lies. and that's the basis of the democratic system. if we are not able to do that, our democracy will be deeply flawed and will not be perfect. and so this work, this task, is something that needs the support of the democratic forces across the entire parliamentary arc to make democracy survive.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members. this topic is a priority for our presidency. it is our obligation to protect our citizens from disinformation, in full respect of fundamental rights such as the freedom of speech, the media and association. our common values and democratic institutions are keystones to the resilience of our societies to the challenges of the covid—19 pandemic. we will continue working horizontally across sectors and across borders, learning from each other through the exchange of information and best practices. we very much look forward to working with you, with the commission and with the eeas to fight this pandemic and protect our citizens from harmful disinformation. upcoming initiatives like the european democracy action plan and the digital services act will enable us to step up our collective efforts.
in writing. during the covid-19 pandemic, there was a massive wave of false or misleading information, mainly on the web, including some attempts by foreign actors to influence citizens and public debates in the eu. disinformation campaigns can pose a serious danger to citizens' fundamental rights, from the right to health to the right to be properly informed, and to democracy itself and the rule of law: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on disinformation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on disinformation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on disinformation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on disinformation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on disinformation. the complexities of this challenge are numerous: distinguish between illegal content and harmful but not illegal content and calibrate their responses; ensure a fair balance between freedom of expression and the right to correct information. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). supporting the independence and freedom of the media, which are necessary to provide citizens with verifiable and reliable information and, in the context of the pandemic, to preserve their health; the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of scientific and technical research and technological development.
in writing. an unprecedented 'infodemia', characterised by a bombardment of information, often false, inaccurate and misleading, has accompanied the evolution of the covid-19 pandemic. the excessive flow of information has often created an effect of confusion, fear, and sometimes generated unconscious mass behavior, as we have seen with the assaults on supermarkets and transportation. this has led to incitement to hatred, consumer fraud and cybercrime. the threat of disinformation has emerged primarily through the web, social networks and personal messaging platforms, which have been used massively in recent months for the rapid sharing of mostly unverified news. there is also a clear risk that the 'infodemia' and measures taken in times of emergency may be functional in limiting fundamental rights and freedom of expression. the challenges of disinformation therefore need to be addressed at different levels, from monitoring and analysing information flows to close cooperation between institutions and social platforms, from the protection of fundamental rights to increased awareness among citizens, from a free and plural media system to the strengthening of democratic institutions in which everyone can place full trust.
in writing. – the covid-19 pandemic was accompanied by a global infodemic consisting of misleading health care information, conspiracy theories, consumer fraud, and targeted disinformation campaigns by countries like russia and china. while disinformation campaigns are not a new phenomenon, this crisis has shown us that they are not only detrimental to democracy, but can be detrimental to people’s health. i commend the commission for outlining concrete action steps on this matter – we need bolder and tougher action against disinformation. i would like to focus on the central role that online platforms and digitalisation play in response to disinformation. online platforms have to do their part: promoting authoritative content from professionals, including tools and initiatives to inform their users of false content and continuing their cooperation with eu institutions and member states. digital skills – one of my main priorities – are key to empowering citizens and raising their awareness, information literacy, and critical thinking. when it comes to online platforms, we need to think beyond the current crisis and take legislative action that ensures their responsible behaviour in the future. it is imperative that we continue to tackle disinformation and propaganda while simultaneously maintaining the utmost respect for freedom of expression and democratic norms.
in writing. dear colleagues, listening to your speeches, i am reminded of a letter that matthew attributes to jesus christ: "why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother's eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye? fellow citizens, disinformation campaigns coming from russia and china are nothing new. for years, the european union has debated whether and what measures to take, against whom, how serious. the coronavirus doesn't change anything, it's just another crisis being used for political capital. the big problem, however, is the avoidance of some of you of totalitarian measures in your own countries. the real threat is not from outside, but from within, because some governments have decided to manipulate the information that their citizens have access to. they're democrats, but they're repealing transparency laws and canceling parliamentary oversight sessions. and no, i'm not talking about your "favorite" hungary and poland, where governments act with the full support of citizens, but spain, italy, sweden. fellow citizens, you defend the leftist governments of these countries and cover up their disinformation campaigns, but you will suffer. when you turn misinformation into a state policy, your own citizens will put you in your place. thank you for your attention.
in writing. the pandemic has had a serious negative impact on the union and global economy. however, it cannot be denied that some sectors and workers have been much more severely affected than others and this requires that the recovery and support measures take account of the difficulties and specificities experienced by individual sectors and workers. seasonal and cross-border workers face significant difficulties requiring immediate action by the commission and the hr to provide adequate protection to those ensuring the food security of the union as well as those engaged in the provision of goods and services of fundamental importance in key economic sectors. i welcome the guidelines announced by the commission, but i believe that more should be done. we still read disturbing stories and hear about a number of cases where the principle of equal treatment is not applied. there is no harmonised process for reporting abuses and problems, which limits the ability to publicise unacceptable practices. i call for adequate protection against covid-19 and its associated consequences, including easy access to testing. i call on all states to take measures to ensure the protection of the health and safety of workers on their journey to their place of work and to provide them with decent housing, and the commission should monitor and follow up on their implementation.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that we are in full agreement, both on the diagnosis of the situation and on the actions to be taken to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on one of our most creative, most dynamic sectors, most linked to our traditions, our diversity and our culture. i have also noted your concerns about the budget and the programme. you know that when it comes to budget discussions, these discussions are always, always complicated and complex. what i want to assure you is that what is on the table is the best possible option that we could propose under the current circumstances, and allow me to share with you my optimism that next week we will have a major historic agreement on the recovery package. that would be the best way to symbolise europe's return to kick-starting the real economy and growth and jobs. i have also noted the traditional debate on what european culture represents today in europe. at my hearing i also had the opportunity to say that i see the richness of our culture, not the existence of a homo europaeus who thinks the same, does the same and imposes his or her values on everyone else. i see our european culture as a mirror, a mirror of diversity, a mirror of the richness of what europe represents in terms of language, history, tradition, culture, literature and the arts, and this is what makes europe unique in today's ever uncertain, and if i may say, darker world. i also wanted to say something about hagia sophia. i have noted your interest, which i share. hagia sophia is a symbol of inter-faith and inter-cultural dialogue. it is part of a unesco world heritage site its a museum, its a symbol. it's also a symbol of a city, which is in itself a symbol of what we would like to see as values prevailing in today's world. turkey is a founding member of the un initiative for the alliance of civilizations and has already taken on important obligations in this context. so, given the global monument that it is, it is essential that hagia sofia maintains its current status, recognised both internationally and publicly. otherwise that would undermine the tolerance and openness of turkey. let me remind you that, back in 2010, the city that hosts hagia sophia was a european capital of culture, and as the prime minister of turkey at the time, recep tayyip erdoğan, said: this is a european city with its heart, its culture and civilization, its people, its past, its future. it has always looked towards europe. istanbul has shaped european culture and has been shaped by it prime minister erdoğan, 2010. this is the spirit that we want to hear. this is what we expect from president erdoğan ten years on.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the september partsession. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your service. the response to the coronavirus pandemic has created an unprecedented situation, with actors in most sectors, including culture and education, but also in the smallest economic units of society, the family, in crisis. the cultural recovery of europe must be based on traditional european christian principles, on the creation of a society in which the individual does not work for his own self-fulfilment, but for the good of the family and the community. within the cultural diversity issue, the economic empowerment of indigenous regional minorities and the preservation of their identity should also be promoted at eu level, and the linguistic and cultural rights of indigenous national minorities should be supported. i am also outraged that germany, as the country holding the rotating presidency of the european union, is concerned about the rule of law in other member states, while in its own country, in the 21st century, a statue is being erected to vladimir ilyich lenin, whose record of crimes against humanity is endless. we cannot allow this glorification of totalitarian regimes and dictatorships to become part of european culture.
in writing. let me remind you that cultural institutions were the first to close and will be the last to rebuild. they've cut advertising revenue dramatically. films and tv shows stopped, concerts and festivals were suspended. millions of artists - most of them freelancers - lost their income. how has the eu reacted? the cultural sector was the first to be targeted by the bureaucrats. the money has been diverted to other programmes, and all the political groups are demanding an increase in europe's cultural budget. i don't understand how it happens that culture and education are supposed to be very important, but they're never a priority. no, the money is being diverted to the green deal. i am therefore more and more convinced that the ultimate goal is to have a europe inhabited by ignorant and soulless people who are completely integrated into nature. i don't like the way things are going right now. the cultural sector should receive a substantial share of the eur 750 billion provided for in the recovery plan. i want an immediate review of the funding for the 'erasmus+', 'creative europe' and 'european solidarity corps' programmes, which has been cut by people who either have no interest in culture or understand nothing about it.
in writing. madam chair, you've talked a lot about the economy and about health care, about immigration, the green deal. i didn't hear anything about culture and education. it's like they don't exist to you. 7.4 million europeans lost their jobs in the cultural sector, mainly 'freelancers'. they have no permanent job or health insurance, they don't get unemployment benefits. you've been talking for over an hour and you haven't mentioned them once. is this the bright future you promise to the young? a world of illiterate, easily manipulated voters? during the quarantine, tens of millions of citizens locked in their homes sought refuge in culture. they watched movies, theater, ballet and opera, visited virtual museums. the cultural sector continued to work to keep their spirits up. it is impossible to fully assess the contribution of culture to maintaining mental health during quarantine. you set a price of 0! there's time to come to your senses. make a special allocation for the restoration of the cultural sector. my colleagues and i have tabled a motion for a resolution calling for at least 2% of the recovery budget to be allocated to culture and for increased funding for 'creative europe'. give 2% compared to 30% for green policies. otherwise, when you achieve climate neutrality, your citizens will be mindless, semi-literate half-humans chasing squirrels through the trees. - thank you. - thank you.
this institution is the strongest voice to ensure that the rule of law is upheld, that the rights of our citizens are guaranteed. it is precisely because the rule of law is so important, so serious, so central to what the european union means and represents that we cannot allow this principle to be undermined. and so we need to have resolutions that are well-drafted and that are accurate. in this serious process we must be rigorous. it cannot be that subjective facts, opinions or thoughts are put in the same box. and so my fear is that the resolution before us could be used by those with an interest to look for any excuse to ignore this parliament. that is why my appeal today is that what we have before us must be re-thought and re-written. let us together ensure that this process is one that reflects the seriousness and political importance it deserves. only in this way can we all safeguard and defend the credibility of this parliament and of the european union.
mr president, today the voice of the bulgarian people is being heard clearly throughout europe. it is a voice that calls for the immediate return of the principles of the rule of law and democracy in the country. mr. borisov for more than a decade in power has allowed certain individuals and circles to benefit from bulgaria's membership in the european union, at the expense of the bulgarian people. year after year his rule leads to more (not heard), more abuse of power, more poverty and more collapse of media freedom. that's why today we say, "enough!" and the resolution that we're voting on this week for bulgaria, that's a resolution for... (speaking inaudible) we demand a country where politicians focus on reform, where human dignity and the rights of every group in society are respected. today i also ask the german presidency: how long will the council remain silent? i also appeal to the commission, because what it does will determine whether bulgaria continues on this authoritarian path. today, bulgaria's pain is the pain of the entire european union.
in writing. – being not granted the floor for this debate, i am addressing you under rule 171(11) of our rules of procedure. i am specifically addressing my epp colleagues to carefully consider the situation in bulgaria and the importance of the debate, not only for the bulgarian citizens and european taxpayers, but for the future of the eu. this debate may easily slip into pre-election partisanship. to avoid that risk, i am calling on you to focus on the real problem, and to consider it in the context of the other two major debates we are holding today – on the rule of law mechanism and on the conditionality clause. our problem is simple, yet most serious: there is a mafia takeover of the judiciary and media in a member state. you may support the government in bulgaria, or you may not. these are sometimes challenging political choices. if you trust the government, you may try to help it get rid of dangerous dependencies – a futile, but noble effort. but there is no such choice as denying the truth, neither staying idle, when the rule of law is trampled in a european country. this is not a choice, but complicity.
in writing. – the european parliament has, alongside several countries, local authorities and scientists, declared that our planet is facing a climate and environment emergency. to avoid accelerated and irreversible climate change and a massive decline in biodiversity, global greenhouse gas emissions need to be rapidly reduced. in response to this challenge, the european commission has presented a green deal, aiming to make europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050, achieving economic development with respect for the natural boundaries of the planet while ensuring a just transition with no person and no place left behind. the climate law represents a cornerstone of the green deal. we have the policies, we have the commitment, and we have the funds to support it. but fairness is key. our ambition should help, not hurt, the most vulnerable in society. this transition will be just, or there will be no transition. we expect this fairness will drive to eradicate energy poverty, creating jobs and ensuring solidarity among all member states. we have to act in time so we can still manage the transition. that is why it is so important that we start now, no time to waste.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here today in what appears to be a religious service at the altar of the green deal. well, i refuse to idolize this obviously misguided idea or the unwise way in which you set out to implement it. we are hostages to a left-wing green policy that never stops demanding and doesn't care about the effect on countries and people. first, the council agreed on a target of 43% by 2030. the commission has decided to raise it to 55%, and now parliament will vote, i am sure, a target of 60%. i say again, with this climate bill, you're putting nature before people. you cannot demand an immediate green transition and the closure of entire industries when the lives of tens of millions of europeans and their families depend on these sectors. every time you raise your sights and congratulate yourself on how progressive you are, you condemn people to unemployment and starvation. hungry people don't produce carbon dioxide emissions, i know that. meanwhile, you voted for the "mobile package" that destroyed an entire sector in central and eastern europe and left thousands of trucks on the roads empty. and they don't produce carbon dioxide, i'm sure of it. shame on you! - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, it is getting tiresome to talk about the international troublemaker, turkey. the regime in turkey, in the south-east mediterranean, in greece, in cyprus, in syria, in libya and now in armenia is behind all the unrest. unfortunately, some in europe want to reward turkey for helping to destroy syria and for hosting the refugees that it created. how hypocritical! now a very big issue has been created in the caucasus, in nagorno karabakh, with turkey again at the forefront. the armenian people are the ones who suffer. of course, there are other players involved in this behind-the-scenes game: russia, iran, china. the european union is not a political force, but a political force. what role can he play?
mr president, the conflict in nagorno-karabakh first of all obliges us to send our most sincere condolences to all the victims of this conflict, not only those of today but also those of the past. but if it does demonstrate anything, i would say that we can sum it up in two fundamental ideas: the first is that the european union must act more and more strongly with turkey. we cannot have a conflict with greece and cyprus, we cannot have turkey in libya, turkey in syria, turkey in kurdistan and now turkey in the south caucasus. this is unacceptable! and the second conclusion, mr borrell, is that we need the european union in this conflict. this is one of those conflicts in which we can play an active role and develop what is europe's foreign policy, and it is a pity that we are leaving the solution of this conflict to other instances when we have all the capacity to be credible mediators with armenia and azerbaijan.
mr. chairman, mr. high representative, this morning, as i was coming to the hall, i saw young armenians with the national flag. there's probably a bunch of azerbaijanis on the other side. i hope these people help us to understand all of the dangers that come from this conflict, because i think there are several kinds of risks. first, about the transformation of this regional conflict, i would say, into an interstate one there are already indications that it has gone beyond the nagorno-karabakh region. turning it into a regional war, given turkey's belligerent rhetoric, the mercenaries, the jihadists already there, and russia's presence in armenia. and, of course, to become a part of the global confrontation. the seriousness of the situation is shown by the common position of the united states, russia and france. an unconditional and immediate ceasefire is required here as well. it is the responsibility of nato, in dialogue with russia, through appeasement of turkey and with the participation of the european union through france, as co-chair of the minsk group, to find solutions to restart the negotiation process.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for completing this enormous task and negotiations. this time the cap is certainly going to try to achieve more than ever before. it has ambitious environmental and climate targets, but equally important to me is the special attention to food quality and safety, young farmers, small and medium-sized farms and generational changes in farming - to name just a few. but we must remember that at the heart of all these ambitious goals must be the most important one, namely food production itself: quality, sustainable and safe european food. and there is always a farmer behind it, and so the farmer must be constantly at the centre of this work of ours. this is important to remember. it is essential to ensure and maintain continuity of agricultural production in all parts of europe in the future. it is therefore very important that parliament's position also allows for the special needs and difficult circumstances of the member states to be taken into account. i could have talked more about these vegetable sausages and burgers, but i'll leave it at that.
mr president, a long and difficult negotiation in this parliament, which has involved two legislatures and different members, and whose results - at least some of them - leave a taste of dissatisfaction in many of us, has come to an end. this is the result of compromises that had to be made, imperfect for what our positions and ambitions are as a group, but necessary to make progress. and so, despite the dissatisfaction, i think it is also time to move towards solutions that can help european farmers in the important challenges to increasingly sustainable agriculture in all its dimensions. and parliament will be here to exert this surveillance pressure on this process. i therefore wish to congratulate the outcome of the commitments in the dossier on the cmo regulation which will help to strengthen the position of farmers and to defend european agricultural production. the commitments now reached also represent a positive step in the regulation of the strategic plans compared with a basic document which left much to be desired and for the advancement of which the s&d group played a crucial role. i would also like to highlight the commitment of the socialists and democrats to seek to introduce the concept of social conditionality. i would also like to stress the importance of agricultural activity for rural areas, particularly in supporting their maintenance in less-favoured areas with natural constraints. supporting the maintenance of agricultural activity in these areas is also supporting the maintenance of agricultural areas of high natural value, countering land abandonment and consequently fighting for the preservation of agricultural ecosystems and the species associated with them, and this too must be recognised.
mr president, commissioner, we are voting this week in the european parliament on the common agricultural policy, and we know that this is a decisive vote: 30% of the total european budget for the next seven years. with my colleagues from the renaissance delegation and the renew europe group, we have two very big priorities. the first is to give more income to farmers who need it, especially small and medium-sized farmers, because you cannot make the agricultural transition, the agro-ecological transition, if you do not have the means to do it. that is why we support, for example, the capping of aid under the common agricultural policy. the second major priority is of course the agro-ecological transition. that is why we are pleased that in the compromise 30 per cent of pillar i aid, 30 per cent of direct subsidies to farmers, will for the first time be linked to good environmental practices for biodiversity, for the reduction of pesticides, for the climate. but we must go further, because this compromise is a compromise. we have the opportunity again this week in the plenary to make this reform considerably better, in particular by voting on the 50 amendments which have been tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament, which i would of course ask you to support. we also support a direct link between the objectives of the 'biodiversity' and 'fork to fork' strategies and the common agricultural policy, for example the 50% reduction in pesticides over the next ten years in europe.
(beginning of speech without microphone) ...sop. i know it's important to keep the process going and not get stuck, but you can't take a bad deal at any price. many important things were left untouched by the trade-offs, such as the conditionality requirements for small farms, which would literally destroy them. with colleagues from many political groups, we have worked together to bring about changes that i hope will save working farmers from bankruptcy and poverty. it's easiest to cut money for real farmers and for families with private farms in favor of more green schemes. in the cultural sector where i work, it's already been done, and the budget has been cut tremendously. while we are talking about solidarity, many of you are lightly destroying pan-european culture, starting with artists and creative organisations. apparently agriculture will be next in line to be destroyed.
mr president, it is important that we vote today in favour of the cap, which, alongside the reforms, will provide many new opportunities. ensuring food security in times of pandemic is as important as fair incomes. the green transition and innovation should be supported by an adequate financial framework. i believe that the future of modern agriculture depends on the active involvement of young farmers. bulgarian farmers will engage in the fight against climate change and work to ensure clean food, clean air and clean water, but at the same time expect to be supported in the green transition by levelling direct payments, maintaining tied support levels, continuing transitional national aid and living in dignity in modern infrastructure and quality services in rural areas.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have taken part in these really successful negotiations. i believe that this is an important step for the european union in this crisis, and we have only been able to take this step - as mr herbst has just said - because we were united and confident. and the debate today shows that we will of course need this unity and this self-confidence in the coming months and weeks, if we are to succeed in keeping the member states - 27 in number - all on the same page, whether on the rule of law, whether on own resources or on the enlargement of the eu budget. but this unity and this self-confidence, mr president, is what wins an assembly like this - we have learned this many times in history - as democracy from the demos. we do not live in a video-cracy, and therefore it is important that we retain the possibility of meeting here - with special security measures and on a smaller scale - even in times of crisis. and that's why pronunciation is important today. when my colleague lópez aguilar of the socialists here points out that we represent 44 million people, he is of course doing so to make it clear that if we stand together, if we act with unity and confidence, we achieve exactly this objective: to convey to the citizens of europe the understanding that we want to be in solidarity and that the budget is an expression of this solidarity. i would like to add, mr president, that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european parliament has always been a supporter of the commission in this crisis, particularly in the budgetary field, but we have never had the impression that we are there to finance the member states. that is why, on the one hand, we are calling for a real check on the control of the 750 billion euro in the recovery and resilience instrument, so that these funds are also spent at european level and do not serve as a savings box for the member states' budgets. secondly, in the budgetary field too, our core principle remains that we defend the fundamental values of the european union and do not become willing helpers of the member states.
mr president, this second wave of the pandemic has made it clear that the impact on our economy and our well-being is much more serious than expected and that is why this agreement is so extremely important. the word 'historic' has been used several times today and we have indeed made historic steps. for more than 30 years we have been fighting for the european union's own revenue. we have increased the amount of money allocated to research and development, and we have allocated 30% to climate and 10% to biodiversity to secure our sustainable future. the rule of law mechanism also ensures that money can only be spent in the union if european values are also respected. there's a vaccine in sight, and that gives us perspective. the same applies to these investments. we should not invest for profit, but for the welfare of the people. if we've learned anything from this pandemic, it's not that profit makes more welfare, but that welfare is a huge win for european citizens and businesses.
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate all those who contributed to the agreement on the new budget yesterday and the rule of law review mechanism last week. i commend the excellent cooperation of the pro-european groups. it strengthened our position, despite the political pressure at the end of the negotiations. i expect unanimous support from the council to make the funds available as soon as possible. parliament is finally being respected as a co-legislator. with a direct mandate from the citizens, our proposals allow for a transparent use of funds. this will allow for a sustainable recovery and development of the union. thanks to the proposals of the socialists and democrats, this budget is more sustainable and greener and socially fair. research and education envelopes have been increased. in total, nine programs will receive more money than the council agreed. however, i would like to emphasize the rule of law as a control mechanism. as important as the amount of money available to citizens through the funds is, it is even more important that this money is used in line with citizens' expectations. our values and the rights of our citizens are priceless, and governments that threaten them must be held financially accountable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that's a good thing. the decisions taken in the last few days are a milestone on this road. yes, we have the stuff in the european union. we have the resources to emerge from this terrible crisis stronger. but, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to turn our attention to the places in the world that we too seldom look at. let us not remain in a eurocentric view. europe is only as strong in the long run as we succeed in helping our partners in latin america, africa and asia to get back on their feet. and i am grateful to the negotiating team that here the funds for humanitarian aid and for development policy have not been cut, but have even been increased. i would like to ask you, mr president, to be the spirit of this house in the months and years ahead: we must look to our partner countries and we must ensure that we are able to act globally. that is our task, including in the european parliament.
mr president, the european parliament has reached a historic agreement on the future european budget: €1.8 trillion for the priorities of the european citizens. our political group has asked for and won a tripling of the budget for the health programme, an increase in funding for education and youth of €2.2 billion, an increase in the research budget of €4 billion and similar increases for programmes in the fields of culture, digitalisation, infrastructure, agriculture and entrepreneurship. our political family will continue to fight for a sustainable economic recovery and an effective response to the new challenges posed by the pandemic and technological developments. it is essential that these financial resources reach the beneficiaries as soon as possible and that the programmes start as soon as possible in all member states. in romania, european resources are the solution to economic recovery, in the context of a government unable to adequately manage this crisis. to do this, we need to avoid delays and ensure that european money is spent transparently, following consultations with social partners and civil society in each member state.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached yesterday on the budget is a very important achievement, a true test of maturity on the part of the european institutions, which have been able to react with determination to the grave threat of the pandemic and its disastrous effects on our society. the agreement was by no means certain, given the tight deadlines, difficulties and political knots that had to be untied, especially on the rule of law and own resources. but now, between the budget and the recovery plan, we have almost 2 000 billion in resources, which must be used properly and quickly. the binding timetable introducing new own resources for the union opens a new chapter in the process of european integration, because it will make europe progressively less and less dependent on the contributions of individual states. taxing the web giants, financial speculative transactions and the big polluters are necessary steps to achieve our goals, as well as ensuring that in the face of flagrant violations of the rule of law, the disbursement of funds can be blocked. orbán's negative reaction tells us that we are really on the right track, let me say that. it is time to give europe the tools to become great, the time is now and we are here!
mr. president, i have to go. first of all, as a hungarian european citizen, i would like to thank everyone in this house for finally agreeing to make the payment of eu subsidies subject to the rule of law in the future. for years, europeans have watched their own prime minister's circle rip apart, steal the eu funds that are due to hungarians. so for us, this new decision, this new rule, is of enormous, even historic, significance. secondly, i want to reassure europe that we made the right decision when we made this decision. here is the proof: the orbán government has submitted a constitutional amendment that will make it much easier to steal public money in hungary, and in parallel they have started the unilateral one-party reform of the electoral laws. in one night, orbán showed everyone in europe that we made the right decision when we introduced the rule of law clause, because it will be needed in the future more than ever before. we must finally understand together with the hungarian prime minister that he cannot do anything with the hungarian and european people.
[inaudible] while negotiating the multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund this parliament stayed strong and didn’t allow itself to be blackmailed by some autocratic governments or by some of the so-called frugal governments. this shows how crucial it is that the european parliament has its say on the mff. the concrete roadmap on new own-resources is the merit of this house, and this will allow us and our budget not to rely too heavily on contributions from member states which would continue to divide our union into net payers and net receivers. as a member of the s&d group, i’m especially pleased that own resources like a financial transaction tax and corporate tax base ensure that everybody pays their fair share. moreover, it was again the european parliament that insisted on linking european funds to respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. still, personally i think this is not enough in its current form, but it is for sure a very good first step to ensure conditionality that after all 70% of all citizens consider to be crucial. this mff and recovery fund will prevent the european union from going back to business as usual: on the contrary, it will help the union to become more resilient, sustainable, gender-balanced and inclusive.
mr president, i would like to congratulate all those involved in the negotiations, because yesterday a step was taken towards a more social and more united europe. yes, when compromises are made, many people make concessions, but yesterday's historic deal ensures that european funds will reach citizens, businesses and regions in time to help them cope with the severe consequences of the coronavirus crisis. i also welcome the agreements reached on the new own resources and the roadmap for their introduction, because they allow the european union to pursue an independent fiscal policy and not become a hostage to the internal political arithmetic of individual governments. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the link between the rule of law and european union funds. the money of the european union is the money of the citizens, it is not used to reproduce a corrupt political class. finally, i would like to thank all the colleagues in the european parliament who have defended the institution's position in the negotiations. thank you, sir.
mr president, it is precisely in times of crisis, when our society is in uncharted territory and when our democratic institutions, our rule of law and our fundamental freedoms are under pressure, that power needs counterpower. that is precisely why we need parliaments and why we need the european parliament. i therefore join all those who have called for it today to ensure that we can return to our democratic duty in this house as soon as possible in a healthy and safe way. this is not only important for us, but also for the rest of europe. it is now that we must stand up for our principles and defend our rule of law and our checks and balances, not simply set them aside. the rule of law is not an obstacle to an effective response to the pandemic, but rather a basic prerequisite for an inclusive, democratic and proportionate approach. the measures taken by member states should be directly linked to the health crisis, be time-bound, be proportionate and be subject to regular monitoring by experts and parliaments. we have shown this week with the agreement on the mff how much we value the rule of law. member states which undermine the rule of law must now do so without european subsidies. it is in times of crisis that people - and even rulers - show their true colors. so let us also make it very clear in this time of crisis that for us this commitment to the rule of law is more than just words, and that it must also be followed by action.
madam president, the corona crisis has exposed the autocratic features of certain governments in some member states. in bulgaria, for example, the government forgot that health care is a fundamental human right, and in its failure to deal with the coronavirus crisis, it deprived many bulgarian citizens of it. under the guise of fighting covid, we have witnessed some highly questionable practices and frequent abuses of the executive's extraordinary powers, such as states of emergency, restrictions on freedom of movement, restrictions on the right to assemble, restrictions on the media, even suspension of parliaments and rule by ministerial decree, without any democratic control. it seems that some rulers are using the coronavirus as an excuse, as a convenient excuse, to consolidate their power in an undemocratic way, including when protests against them break out and they are banned or restricted in an official way. i therefore consider it crucial to monitor and compare the different approaches in terms of their impact on democracy, respect for fundamental human rights and the rule of law. all of this raises some questions for the european commission that i would like to ask. first, will the commission continue to monitor the situation, including through an overall assessment to be made public? will the commission provide further guidance to encourage the exchange of positive best practices? and thirdly, if it is found that certain measures are not proportionate, are not democratic, will the commission take action to comply with european union law and what will it be? thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, colleagues, the health and lives of the people are once again the number one item on our agenda. and if in the spring in eastern europe we were mildly affected, if in our country the pandemic was more of a boast and an abuse of power, today it is developing on a frightening scale and shows the unpreparedness of our institutions. in bulgaria, my homeland, the infection and death rates have been at the levels of italy and spain since the spring, and the victims are those who are most needed by our society -- doctors, nurses, teachers, parents. europe has shown that if it is united, it can help and financially compensate for the losses where the passivity and inertia of governments have not done so, and to commit to opening up borders to professions and goods without which we cannot do. today people expect the european parliament to have clear rules and criteria for protecting citizens, a fair market for medicines, guarantees that financial aid goes to those in need and not to buy elections. our greatest success and hope is the development of a vaccine by a small, innovative european company, with the crucial support of european innovation programmes, in partnership with industry leaders. a success that has shown how important investment in science is, and our key task is to get this vaccine to the citizens of europe in a strict order and with clear rules. thank you, sir.
madam president, i greet you all from strasbourg, the seat of the european parliament, where i am today. month after month, mr erdoğan's turkey provokes the european union and its member states, stirs up all the conflicts in our neighbourhood, from libya to armenia, and violates un resolutions in the eastern mediterranean and today in famagusta. the european indulgence has gone on too long. i said a few weeks ago that when a member state is subject to flagrant attacks on its sovereignty, we must show full solidarity and not mediate. there can be no neutral mediation. there can be dialogue, but neutral mediation cannot take place with such a provocateur vis-à-vis the european union. of course, turkey is and will remain a great country and a great neighbour with its own interests, which do not always coincide with ours. we have other problematic neighbours who have a lot to do with turkey, too. but diplomacy must help to find reasonable compromises. where is the willingness to compromise in ankara? there is only repetition of aggressive provocations. it is also necessary to have the lucidity to see that today erdogan's demands go far beyond traditional nationalist positions. there is also a strong ideological dimension to this constant agitation, an islamist inspiration that we cannot ignore. this is deeply incompatible with our values, our worldview and our way of life. this must therefore lead us to take targeted sanctions, but also to put an end to the myth of turkey's possible accession to the european union, which is a dangerous game of tricks.
madam president, at the october european council you supported the adoption of a positive agenda for turkey. before the ink of conclusions had dried, turkey continued its provocations and illegal actions from the eastern mediterranean and libya to the caucasus and nagorno karabakh. colleagues, in varosha, the houses have had their doors and windows open for 46 years now, waiting for the return of those who were violently expelled, leaving behind their ancestral homes. the 1984 security council resolution 550 called for the return of the residents under the temporary un administration, giving hope to hundreds of greek cypriot refugees that they would return, a hope that mr erdoğan, with the picnic of hatred he organized with his chosen mr tatar, wants to extinguish forever, even renaming the main highway after the turkish general attila, serving the disastrous plan of partition. erdoğan is flouting international law, and you're playing ostrich. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. it is now one-way, the sanctions, it is now one-way to stop all european arms sales to turkey, as your parliament has asked. and lastly, madam president, today is a day of shame for the european parliament because you have given the floor to someone who has been convicted by the greek judiciary (the president takes the floor) of criminal (the president takes the floor) murders. shame on you!
madam president, imagine a beautiful town deserted by its inhabitants, who were violently forced to leave their homes and their little paradise. this town can be anywhere – in bosnia and herzegovina, in syria, in nagorno-karabakh. this time we talk about the case of varosha. we have heard many times from refugees who have escaped war zones that they will only find peace when they return to their homes in order to reconcile their memories between the two lives they lived – a normal life before and the life as a refugee, a displaced person. according to united nations conventions that we support in this parliament, every refugee has the right to return and no one has the right to take somebody else’s property. on a few occasions in recent months, we have had to deal with a candidate country that claims to aspire to membership of the eu, while it upholds an irresponsible and aggressive behaviour, causing clashes in the eastern mediterranean, making inflammatory speeches and helping the violent conflict in nagorno-karabakh. now the country continues to divide european countries and breaks with united nations security council resolutions by digging deeper wounds in the already traumatised memories of cypriot citizens. it is high time to redefine our strategy towards turkey and to set our border for the defence of our partners. here we are united around values that respect dialogue and tolerance and despise bullying and aggression. it is time to show an exit strategy from historic mistakes and to stop the bullying in and around the european union.
madam president, it is an honor to speak for the first time under your presidency. mr borrell, the voice of the members of parliament has been heard today. i think we're all in agreement. our voice is heard loud, but who is shouting, who is shouting for sanctions is turkey, it is the erdogan regime, and we are not listening. what has happened in varosha, the arrest of thousands of political activists, the defiance of nato members using russian weapons, granting citizenship to members of hamas and the muslim brotherhood, confronting all countries and meddling in all the conflicts around them: with israel, in iraq, in syria, in armenia, in egypt. how long are we going to tolerate this situation? and, above all, the most important of all: the attacks, the aggressions against two member states of the european union, as is the case with greece and cyprus. we cannot tolerate this situation any longer and these sanctions must be imposed now. we want to work together, parliament and the commission, to ensure that the member states reach that conclusion at the next european council.
mr president, turkish aggression is growing. we see the erdoğan regime raging against greece and cyprus, against artsakh, in syria and libya. he's even testing the s-400 missiles of russia. the resolution before us says that we must enter into dialogue with turkey, through diplomacy, through genuine cooperation, through negotiations in a spirit of goodwill. president, what a chatterbox! if turkey doesn't want something, it's to talk. turkey has been putting pressure on the eu for years. and he knows, of course, that he is dealing with large turkish communities in many member states. he also knows he can cancel the migration deal with europe. so do not give in to blackmail. mr. borrell, strengthen the weak hands, firm the wavering knees. take action against turkey. sanctions, now!
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank all the members for this debate, at some moments passionate, and i understand the reasons, but you know i am in charge of trying to look for solutions and i am trying to do so. nobody is bowing but we have to continue reaching out to turkey. the european union council, at its next meeting, will have to take important decisions about our relationship with turkey. they decided to do so at the last meeting. certainly, we are at a critical moment in our relationship with turkey, but you can be sure that the european union is on the side of cyprus. greece supports the speedy resumption of cyprus settlement talks under the auspices of the united nations, fully committed to a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem based on a bicommunal, bizonal federation with political equality as set out in the relevant security council resolutions. this is our position and we will continue engaging diplomatically with turkey in order to try an attitude that could contribute to this objective. this is my role – i am being paid for that! – and though the european external action service works in this direction it doesn’t mean that we are bowing, we are just trying to engage in diplomatic activity and prepare the european union council, and the leaders will have to take a decision. it’s not up to me to say now it is going to be this, it is going to be censure or not – it is the european union council which will discuss and i will work hard to prepare this discussion in order to take the decision that politically the leaders of the european union will decide to take, and we will continue discussing it for sure.
i have received, pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, seven motions for resolutions*. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 26 november 2020. _____________________* see minutes of the meeting of the board of directors.
in writing. deep concern continues to be caused by the escalation of tensions by turkey in the aegean and eastern mediterranean, culminating in the recent unprecedented illegal actions of turkish president erdoğan against the city of famagusta. in the european parliament i will not cease to condemn in all the tones and with all the means at my disposal the criminal attitude of turkey which deliberately refuses to comply with the un security council resolutions, violates international law, disregards european values, the rule of law and human rights and brutally blackmails the european union in words and deeds. the european parliament's position has been clearly expressed in recent resolutions on turkish challenges and threats. i therefore call again today for the eu to take a firm stand and for immediate sanctions to be imposed on turkey for its illegal encroachment, among other things, on european territory. the union must intercept without further delay any new attempt by erdoğan to create facts on european soil. otherwise, it will be complicit in a permanent crime being committed against two member states, greece and cyprus, with unforeseen consequences for the whole of europe. it is our duty to protect our sovereign rights and our unity.
in writing. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the only thing that this strategy has done is to fuel the aggressiveness and the idealism of a country that systematically and knowingly violates international law without any qualms. it is a shame that so far the eu has not imposed strict sanctions on an authoritarian regime which threatens peace throughout the eastern mediterranean. the continuation of this tolerance is not only contrary to the very principles and values of europe, but it undermines the image of the union in the eyes of millions of european citizens. sandbox is a european city which belongs to its rightful residents. if the eu does not act today, it will be both complicit and responsible for turkey's criminal action.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the geopolitical implications of the abrams agreements in the middle east region (2020/2828 ((rsp)). i would like to inform members that, for all the debates of this part-session, there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure and no blue papers will be accepted. in addition, remote interventions by the parliament's liaison office in the member states are foreseen.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for having this opportunity to address you today on a very important issue, an issue on geopolitical implications, which are the recent agreement between israel and the united arab emirates, bahrain and recently sudan, and maybe many more in the future. on behalf of the european union i have welcomed these announcements, for three reasons. first, because we believe that these agreements help to establish new formal relations between countries that have decided to put their differences aside and to engage in a peaceful, bilateral cooperation. secondly, we welcome these agreements because they can potentially enhance relations in areas such as technology, tourism, energy, trade, health, for regional cooperation. and third, because we believe that they could have a positive effect on other countries as well as more broadly on regional stability, which the european union has consistently tried to promote. however, although these agreements bring positive developments, it’s clear that they all focus on the broader regional picture. israel did commit in the context of the normalisation deal with the uae to suspend its plans for annexation of occupied territory in the west bank. this was a positive step and we celebrate it and we welcome it, but the agreements themselves do not address the israeli-palestinian conflict, and the israelis’ annexation plans still need to be abandoned, not suspended temporarily. abandoned, abandoned altogether. we have always said there will not be sustainable peace and stability in the region without a comprehensive settlement of the arab-israeli conflict and in particular the israel-palestinian conflict on the basis of a negotiated and viable two-state solution, built upon the internationally agreed-parameters. in this light, we should explore ways to apply the logic inherent to the normalisation process to generate a direct and positive impact on the situation on the ground and to create the conditions for a meaningful political process between israel and the palestinians. in the last weeks we had informal exchange between the palestinian foreign minister mr al-malki and the european union foreign ministers by video conference. i stressed the importance of re-engaging in a meaningful political dialogue. i also emphasised this to the israeli foreign minister, gabi ashkenazi, when we spoke by telephone yesterday. last week we saw the positive news that the palestinian authority will resume economic and security cooperation with israel. we had actively encouraged this as the european union, but at the same time the situation on the ground remains very worrying, notably due to continued advancements of illegal settlement construction and a significant spike in demolitions. the recent decision by israel to open tenders to build a new settlement in givat hamatos, the first new settlement in occupied east jerusalem in 20 years, is of huge concern, and yesterday in my phone conference with minister ashkenazi i expressed this concern and our condemnation of this initiative. we must work urgently to find a way to rebuild trust and confidence between the two parties. we must avoid unilateral actions that undermine peace efforts. the launch of negotiations remains essential. we will therefore continue to work with members of the international community, including, i hope, with a new administration in washington, to uphold international law, to end the conflict and to ensure equal rights for all. only by working together will we be able to end the current dynamics of perpetual confrontation and mistrust.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mr borrell, i very much appreciate your opening words of support for these agreements. it is a pity that 80% of the speech was devoted to settlements and the israeli-palestinian conflict, as i imagine most of my colleagues on the left will do in their speeches. i hope not. let us all join in the joy of the moment, the moment when we have a historic agreement between rival nations that didn't even recognize their right to exist. among the uae, israel, bahrain, sudan and others to be added. let us put the european union at the head of this. we're out of this. that is why my group has wanted to discuss these agreements, because of the lack of real enthusiasm on this subject in some european institutions, and especially in some political groups. as we speak, thousands of israeli and emirati workers and entrepreneurs are flying in and working, contributing to greater economic prosperity, job creation, security. why can't we join this? let us do it in a positive way, without sidestepping the issues that have been raised; nobody does. i also welcome the fact that palestinians and israelis are sitting down again, that israel is talking to lebanon again, after decades, about territorial disputes. it is not just the economy: there are also positive political factors which i believe we europeans must take from these agreements. and i hope that the political groups will join in this effort and that we will all be positive and that we will have the european union at the forefront.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the signing of the abraham accords has indeed created a momentum for advancing relations between countries in the middle east, as the current situation is unsustainable. nevertheless, what the real impact will be remains to be seen. we cannot ignore the reservations of some other middle eastern countries, nor the voice of the palestinians. but we need to support every agreement that is a step forward towards sustainable stability in the region as a whole. we also take note that the abraham accords have been accompanied by prime minister benjamin netanyahu’s commitment to suspend the planned unilateral annexation by israel of occupied palestinian territories in the west bank against international law. however, we call again for these plans to be cancelled once and for all. key objectives remain to put an end to the occupation of palestine and achieve lasting peace between israel and its arab neighbours. on a more general note, we must place the abraham accords into the broader context of geopolitical dynamics in the middle east, in particular with regard to iran, saudi arabia and turkey. this is where the european union should also use the momentum and take a more prominent role as a global leader in promoting peace and security, especially given the political change on the other side of the atlantic. having said that, this might be one of the rare dynamics that should not be reversed from the trump era’s legacy indeed but which should be managed in a different, responsible way with regard to both their geopolitical implications and their impact on palestinians. let’s use this opportunity to achieve more stability and prosperity in the region.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, land for peace! that was in 2002 with the arab peace initiative, the condition of the gulf arab states for normalising ties with israel. the abraham accords have changed the condition for normalised relations with israel, without consulting the palestinians. land for peace became peace for peace, but between countries who actually didn’t have conflict. don’t get me wrong: in a region beset with conflicts, dialogues and closer ties should be welcomed. i always favour dialogue over silence. yet we should not ignore the circumstance in which these deals were agreed. de facto annexation by israel continues, not to speak about the demolition of palestinian structures, including eu-funded structures. the abraham accords may affect the chances of reaching a two-state solution if they legitimise and consolidate the status quo, while the status quo we all agree on is not the solution to the conflict. that, colleagues, that is what worries me. dear high representative, the two-state solution is close to being dead and buried. it’s time to do more than declaring we remain firmly committed to it. the arab gulf states and the eu must prevent the consolidation of the status quo and revive the two-state solution. we must act, you must act in defence of the two-state solution. you have our support.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, the abraham accords have been described by many observers as a historic agreement, a turning point towards peace, security and prosperity for the whole of the middle east. these agreements have enormous potential to open the way for dialogue in the region, but they present a serious limitation: the european union is not doing enough to help resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict, which has been destabilizing for decades. these agreements are certainly not a peace treaty, which is always concluded between warring parties; they're actually much more like an anti-iranian alliance, not an alliance for something but against someone. for decades, many countries have used the tensions between israel and the arab world to advance their own geopolitical agenda. the world should have learned from 1967 that the situation in the middle east cannot improve until the palestinians see their rights recognized. mr. high representative, the worst enemy of peace in the middle east is to give in to the status quo and hate education. we must not allow, like europe, that the next generations of palestinians and israelis are victims and not beneficiaries of these agreements.
madam president, mr high representative, distinguished colleagues, the abraham accords can be a useful step towards stabilising the middle east, a stage in a comprehensive process aimed at ensuring cooperation and eventually peace in the region. the united states has played a key role in this process and i welcome their continued efforts to seek a negotiated solution. the positive potential for regional cooperation exists. however, the agreement could also have destabilising effects due to its limitations. the development of tensions between arab states cannot be excluded. there are differences in approach between countries that have been in open war with israel and those that have not participated directly in past conflicts. the content of the 2002 arab league peace initiative, which was reactivated in 2007, should also be taken into account. the non-inclusion of the palestinian authority in the talks is harmful and not only to the peace process as a whole, but also to the intra-palestinian fatah-hamas balance. future negotiations must be open to all parties concerned, in line with the policy of the european union, which wants a two-state solution. to maintain its global relevance, the european union must abandon its eminently reactive stance, act strategically and assertively on geopolitical issues, and take the initiative to produce tangible results, in particular when it comes to the region in its wider neighbourhood.
madam president, the abraham accords could have the potential to promote peace in the middle east. they can become historic and i hope they will also succeed in generating concrete achievements in the israeli-palestinian conflict. in recent decades, the union's approach has been to separate the israeli-palestinian conflict from the regional context and to focus on bilateral relations. now the agreements give us an opportunity to rethink our policy and i am firmly convinced that europe's involvement in strengthening israel's regional normalisation does not imply withdrawal from the two-state solution. on the contrary, it is a factor in the resumption of the normalisation process. it will be crucial in the coming months to maintain the encouraging dialogue between all parties. therefore, instead of standing by and watching from afar, europe should start taking the lead in promoting this regional dynamic.
madam president, the european council is called upon to decide on two questions which concern the very existence of the european union. firstly, in the budget and the recovery fund we, as the european parliament represented by the european citizens, do not accept any discount for the rule of law, which is an integral part of our european principles and values. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. we've heard about terrorism, about the terrorist ringleader in ankara, but we offer a positive agenda. it is a one-way street for the european council: economic sanctions and an arms embargo on turkey now.
madam president, the denial of reality today is something that even some european governments are allowing themselves to do. that reality today is climate change, and that reality is a scientifically proven threat to the entire world, but the most vulnerable are the small and weak countries that cannot cope with the cataclysms and the consequences of global warming on their own. bulgaria has the dirtiest air in europe, and together with poland, we have the highest rate of premature deaths from respiratory diseases due to dirty air. the european council is due to agree on targets for greenhouse gas emissions reductions in december, despite attempts by some european governments to deny the reality. and these self-forgotten autocrats can continue to do so, but they cannot take the health, the future of our children and the livelihoods of millions of european citizens hostage. in this unprecedented crisis, it is the duty of every democratic institution, government and community to thwart and stop them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this oral question to the commission is incomplete, even inaccurate, misdirected. it shifts the conversation, it misses the point. i know the so-called hungarian media in north macedonia, close to former prime minister gruevski. i know them because they are at the heart of the most fierce anti-bulgarian campaign in macedonia. they work for conflict, they work for a divided balkans, they work against european integration. these are among the main reasons for the current unfortunate situation in which bulgaria is vetoing the enlargement of the european union with the republic of north macedonia. but that is not in the interest of hungary, that is not in the interest of the hungarian people, much less the interest of the citizens of bulgaria or north macedonia. it's in the interest of the kremlin, it's in the interest of the serbian intelligence services. and here is the right direction, this is the real question for the european commission, but this is also the real question for mr orban's government in budapest. what is behind the so-called hungarian media in north macedonia? is the property clear? why is it that these media outlets, which are accused of being close to the hungarian government, work for the interests of moscow and belgrade? that's a question we have to answer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the railways and railway infrastructure have been the fortune of europe and of our country throughout our history. unfortunately, however, european rules have penalized this infrastructure and this railway history over the years. i welcome the fact that europe is changing course and deciding not to impose rules which penalize railway infrastructure but which can strengthen railway infrastructure. certainly, but also, unfortunately, thanks to the pandemic, we have realized the importance of railway infrastructure and rail for goods and for people. i am proud, here in milan, to be able to say that lombardy is a protagonist, that lombardy is really moving forward with fnm, with trenord to be a protagonist also in the railway issue, also in the green deal issue with hydrogen trains. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission's proposals.
(beginning of speech without microphone) agreement to make the next year the year of rail transport. this will give a boost and stimulate the sector, individual travel, freight transport, tourism, intermodal solutions, direct more investment to trans-european rail infrastructure and force some governments not to transfer funds to roads and not to neglect their regional railways but to put efforts into their recovery. the only way to achieve a carbon-neutral continent is by encouraging investment in rail transport, and i am also satisfied that during the negotiations a compromise was reached on the role of railway workers, those over 600,000 people, on the need for easy access for people with disabilities and on the ambition to develop a night network of trains across europe. all of these steps, i believe, will lead to a renaissance of rail transport in europe 200 years after its mass introduction.
rapporteur on the opinion of the empl committee. mr president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this report - the fruit of the good work of various committees and political groups - clearly reflects the european parliament's position on the importance of the new strategy for smes. the economic disruption caused by covid-19 has had a detrimental effect on a significant number of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and they are in urgent need of expanded funding opportunities and appropriate and targeted measures. i believe that the new strategy should also put emphasis on digital skills, enhancing vocational training, lifelong learning, qualifications and re-qualifications. small and medium-sized enterprises should be at the heart of the european green deal and the recovery plan and supported by tailor-made financial instruments and a favourable legislative environment. in this process, it is important to guarantee workers' rights, social and health standards and environmental protection.
i will not repeat the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises for economic growth and competitiveness, mr president, because it is obvious, but i will insist that, precisely because of this importance, the management of the recovery funds must focus to a very large extent on these small and mediumsized enterprises. i would also like to stress that it is important to bear in mind that digital infrastructure, fibre optics and 5g networks are essential for smes and so is the proper transposition of the european electronic communications code. but, in addition, the ability to manage data, metadata and artificial intelligence itself is crucial for smes to be able to innovate and it is therefore vital that they have the right technological capacity and digital training which today, in most european countries, is still very insufficient. the european digital programme is a very good step in that direction because, among other things, it will make it possible to have access to supercomputers and advanced digital training. and that is why we must celebrate today the agreement reached this morning between parliament and the council on the digital europe programme, which we must really welcome.
mr president, commissioner, the european union needed to monitor its industrial strategy before the pandemic. the pandemic shock, relatively symmetrical in health but very asymmetrical in economic and social terms, has made this modernisation even more urgent. a strategy that combines energy transition, digital transition, new sustainability and climate challenges, valuing people and tackling inequalities has to be the essential pillar in smes. i welcome this own-initiative report which highlights the essential conditions for smes to thrive and to be a factor in the new european industrial strategy, in particular through easier and simplified access to finance, investment and venture capital and support for the qualification of workers and the modernisation of processes and technologies. smes must be empowered to make the most of european and national funds, improving their productivity, ensuring better working conditions and attracting talent and knowledge, thus contributing to the development of the communities in which they operate and to the reduction of inequalities. finally, the sme strategy should also be aligned with the revision of the definition of smes, which should optimise the viability, sustainability and economic, social and environmental impact of these enterprises.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. 99% of our companies are small and medium-sized enterprises. they create the most training places, they create the most jobs, they are the number one innovation engine and the backbone of our european economy. 90% of our small businesses are feeling the economic impact of covid-19, 40% are experiencing liquidity problems due to the crisis, and we are all still suffering - and businesses in particular - from lockdowns and restrictions. even before the crisis, our companies complained about too much regulation and too much red tape, about complicated privacy rules, about too many reporting and documentation obligations. i think it takes three things now to support our businesses in these difficult, challenging times. firstly, we must ensure the solvency of our smes. there can be no bankruptcy wave. this means that the commission must examine swiftly the liquidity assistance provided in the member states. it is also important that we finally implement the preventive restructuring directive in all member states, so that it is easier for companies to restructure. secondly, we must cut red tape. i am thinking in particular of the taxonomy area, where there are no new requirements. and last but not least, we need to support companies in their digital transformation. it would be a huge advantage if in future governmental matters could be handled digitally online.
mr president, the current crisis has had a tremendous effect on one of the pivotal driving forces of the european economy. european smes have been the majority of european businesses and account for a large number of employees in europe. hundreds of millions of jobs and more than 99% of the enterprises in the eu non-financial sectors are smes. the eu has to provide technological, organisational and financial support so we can ensure that our smes can overcome the effects of this crisis. our companies have to remain competitive on the global market. in order to achieve this, several measures have to be taken, adequate liquidity has to be provided, adequate measures to support the hospitality and tourism industry are needed. we need to have action aimed at tackling skills mismatches and additional training for our employees to overcome the challenges of the new working environment. we have to help our companies to be the engine of economic and social prosperity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today, thanks to the initiative of millions of european citizens and the work of rapporteur christoph hansen and the shadow rapporteurs, we in this parliament are legally guaranteeing the right of the citizens of the european union to clean drinking water. however, we must be aware that at this moment millions of european citizens have no access to water at all or have at risk of having access to poor quality, dangerous water. in my country, the city of pernik has been in a severe water crisis for a year, which i alerted this parliament about at the end of 2019. the city of shumen is in constant shortage of quality drinking water, the third and fourth largest cities in bulgaria varna and burgas are in constant threat of water regime and without quality, potable water. in bulgaria alone, there are hundreds of thousands, almost a million bulgarian citizens in big cities and hundreds of thousands more in small settlements. billions of european funds have so far been invested in water and sanitation projects, apparently against a backdrop of massive corruption and without sufficient effect. it's good what we're doing today, but we also have to ensure control over it, including the intervention of the european public prosecutor's office.
mr. president, i would like to president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the transitional cap legislation and the recovery plan will ensure a smooth transition for european farmers to modern and environmentally friendly agriculture, while also helping individual sub-sectors to recover from the effects of the covid pandemic. it is important to note that the two-year transitional period proposed by the european parliament brings predictability to investment in farms. keeping the budget, keeping the structure and the rules allows farmers to prepare for the ecosystems, digitalisation and innovation. the transition provides legal and regulatory certainty, stability and financial continuity, support for recovery in times of severe crisis and pressure on the food chain.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the measures that are necessary are not pleasant. they leave no room for carelessness. they hurt. so we're gonna have to take the hits together. for better or for worse, we must prepare for the effects of the crisis. the react eu emergency fund has been working at a rapid pace in recent times. with this nasty virus crippling business, this fund has been raised to help with the greatest need as quickly as possible. i would therefore like to commend my colleagues constanze krehl and andrey novakov and commissioner ferreira for the hard work they have put into this. react-eu is creating the space to invest in sustainable jobs, in new jobs. we're gonna need that very badly. it will also be possible to finance a temporary parttime workforce and thus also preserve jobs. i'm proud of myself that this doesn't come at the expense of the social pot. fortunately, this will remain the same, because we know that poverty will increase throughout europe. i see it in my own country, the netherlands, where the lines for food banks are growing at the moment. so we must indeed uphold the fight against poverty. we must not allow poverty reduction to become the unborn child of this crisis. for europe as a whole, €47.5 billion is now available to help people get or keep jobs. the netherlands has about 440 million, which is on the table. i therefore call on the councillors from dronten, lochem, utrecht and elsewhere in the country to take action in the hague, because the money is there, the needs are there. let's get to work.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, honourable members, since the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic in europe, the commission has undertaken a comprehensive set of actions for a european response to the crisis. react-eu, which stands for recovery assistance for cohesion and the territories of europe, is an important milestone in this process, and i am thankful to the rapporteurs and members, in particular of the committee on regional development (regi) and the committee on employment and social affairs (empl), for addressing the react-eu proposal with the same sense of urgency as its predecessor, the coronavirus response investment initiative, crii and crii+. every day, crii and crii+ deliver emergency support to workers, to hospitals, to small businesses across the union, reaching eur 18 billion by december. to continue this type of support in only a few months since the commission’s proposal on react-eu in may, the college leaders reached a political agreement once again in record time. this was the first initiative agreed to be powered by the next generation eu, and it is in fact the first programme negotiation to be completed among the mff next generation package of proposals. this is testimony to the added value unanimously confirmed by the regi committee on 3 december. thanks to the proactive approach of the rapporteurs and our joint effort, our message to the european citizens is clear and strong. we are leaving no one behind. we are in this together. we will come out of this crisis together. together we can achieve a resilient and strong repair of our economy and society. the vote today is an opportunity to unlock eur 47.5 billion for crisis response and repair in europe. this additional exceptional amount will support member states and regions most impacted by the covid-19 pandemic and its social consequences. it will also serve to prepare the green and the digital transitions for a resilient economy and society in the longer term. react—eu builds on the flexibility of the crii package while bridging funding in the first crucial years of the recovery towards long-term cohesion investments in digitalisation and sustainability. which key features of cohesion crisis response were retained? some of the previous interventions already underlined its support to the health sector, workers, small businesses and young people in particular: liquidity thanks to generous pre-financing, flexibility and the possibility of 100% eu financing. eligibility of expenditure as of 1 february 2020 is retained, and the measures continue to be embedded in the current cohesion programmes for facility. what is new? first of all, the scope of the initiative, which now covers basic infrastructures for public services and enables the first steps of the repair in line with digital and green goals. also cross border territories, as was mentioned before. let me close by highlighting two core principles of react-eu. first, reflecting the importance of tackling climate change, react-eu is expected to contribute 25% of its resources to climate objectives, and in fact, the commission regrets that we could not get this information or this requirement in the legal text as an article. that’s why the commission will issue a statement in that regard upon adoption of the act. second, i’d like to stress that the involvement of regional and local actors, economic and social partners, and civil society is essential for our policy, including react-eu. i would like to thank again the rapporteurs, the committee, and i’m looking forward to hearing today’s debate.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, react-eu funds must reach european citizens as quickly as possible. the covid-19 crisis has shown us once again that the answer and the way to rebuild europe is not by denying europe, but quite the opposite. only by working together can we overcome the consequences of the crisis. this 47.5 billion euros is just the beginning. the appropriations are intended to cover the cost of the crisis management measures taken by the member states since february. we need to continue to work together to respond more quickly and responsively to situations like this. national governments must be accountable for every euro spent and always seek to help those most affected first. a clear economic strategy is needed to rebuild the european economy and the green transition is an integral part of that future. this strategy must be both european and national so that we can all follow our common path together. european citizens demand clear decisions for the future from us, and it is our responsibility to give them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the amendments proposed to the commission's text because they address what is perhaps the most affected sector, and that is, of course, culture. i welcome the text because it pays particular attention, and i quote, to entrepreneurs and self-employed people, including freelancers, artists and other creative workers, who will have a much harder time benefiting from the funding of cultural projects and funds. there is a danger, however, that the culture will once again be left behind and will only get the scraps. we need a stronger commitment and enough funds to go towards rebuilding the sector. there have been similar legislative phrases before, but without result. it is time to get guarantees from the commission and the council, and from the member states, that some percentage of the aid will go to culture alone. but it does affect the 10 million people who work in this sector, and let's make sure that when others share their bread, as they say, the artists don't just have the crumbs on the table.
mr. president, i would like to chairman, colleagues, vocational education and training is the key to overcoming the effects of the economic crisis associated with the covid-19 pandemic. they are the key to overcoming the european economy's lag behind its main competitors. there is no doubt that investing in vocational training is the way to strengthen small businesses, the middle class, innovative enterprises, but we have to consider something else. small businesses, the self-employed, the middle class, they have to survive the crisis. the aid should be granted to them so that they can benefit from these investments in vocational training and education in the near future. but three european countries, including bulgaria, do not provide any aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the self-employed, for their middle class under the sure programme, the main instrument for surviving the hard winter that is just beginning. we in the european parliament, the council, the european institutions in general have to give very clear guarantees that the help against covid-19 reaches those who need it most, those who suffer the most from the crisis, and across europe, these are the middle class, the self-employed, the family businesses.
mr president, security is a global issue, affecting all spheres of life. it's about the health of our children, the protection of our privacy, the safety of our city and our community. for 13% of europeans, terrorism, which is a key issue in the coordinated security system, is a substantial threat. it undermines the democratic foundation and targets democratic values. the answer cannot lie solely in the adoption and introduction of haphazard measures and instruments to limit it. the framework of the new strategy is the european union's contribution to enhancing the security of all of us. the package of measures should include effective counteraction to polarization in society, discrimination and all other factors that increase vulnerability to radicalisation. the fight against social inequalities that give rise to radicalisation, the breeding ground for terrorism, the effective countering of hybrid attacks that reduce social cohesion, that reduce trust in institutions are also among the root causes of security problems. the strategy should connect all the dots in the security ecosystem and respond to the ever-changing criminal environment, and in the current erosion of democracy and the decline of the rule of law globally, restoring a sense of security is the most important condition in building public trust and order.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, greetings from helsinki. at this point, i'm going to switch to speaking english. the effects of climate change will spread across our continent. adaptation is required to make measures at all levels transformative enough to deal with the systemic changes our climate, environment and society are facing. throughout history, people and societies have adapted to climate variability and extremes with varying degrees of success. taking responsibility for climate-related risk requires decision-making in a changing world with continued uncertainty on climate impact and with limitation on how effective the adaptation will be. climate change impacts are more and more visible, with heatwaves, droughts, and wildfires across europe and no snow for christmas in helsinki. climate change will continue to create significant difficulties in europe in spite of mitigation efforts. moreover, europe is affected by indirect climate impacts occurring in other parts of the world in multiple ways, such as through trade and supply chains, spread of infections and threats to international security. it is therefore crucial that parliament is in the forefront of pushing for stronger eu policies and adaptation. i would like to end with a note that the main work, for our part, was done by fredrick federley and his assistant stina jansson. i'm just sort of taking the leading points for the very last few minutes and seconds.
member of the commission. – madam president, i wish to thank members for this short but intensive discussion. certainly, we will continue to do our utmost to prevent the unadaptable, such as a global warming level of 3⁰ celsius that will make life impossible in many places. we must also adapt to the unpreventable as we are now already at 1.2⁰ celsius and the climate impacts are hitting us hard. the commission welcomes very much parliament’s early engagement on adaptation and the clear signals and encouragement it has given for increased ambition and adaptation. i fully agree with mr balt on the issue that cities play a crucial role in this, and i know that many, many cities have very elaborate and ambitious plans, ideas and concrete projects, but it’s also up to the national authorities to provide the necessary financial means. here i can only plead to all of you to use the opportunities provided by the mff and the different programmes. but it’s also on us to be engaged enough on this issue when it comes to agreeing on the different sectoral regulations, because it’s a horizontal issue and it’s not sufficient to be very committed within the climate and environmental caucus; it’s also important to be strict and ambitious across the board, if i may say so. here i can only once again urge you to reach out to your colleagues in the different groups, when they are negotiating their sectoral programmes, to indeed address this issue and not to wait until certain modifications in the legislation is necessary, as already mentioned by ms zalewska. we’re looking forward to the upcoming resolution on the new adaptation strategy and also expect again not only a fruitful discussion on, but a very engaged and ambitious implementation of, this strategy across the different sectoral topics.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 17 december 2020. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the eu's strategy for adapting to climate change will be discussed in the european parliament tomorrow. we will vote on a resolution which reiterates the impact of climate change on ecosystems, in particular biodiversity; on the social and economic sectors, and the associated deepening of inequalities; and on human health, which is already so vulnerable today. we also draw attention to the extreme weather conditions that we are witnessing in slovenia, which pose environmental, economic and security risks, especially for local communities. we call for the forthcoming strategy to take this into account and to provide for appropriate measures and better mobilisation of resources. our goals are clear: by 2050, the eu should become a carbon-neutral green economy leader and a model for the world. even before that, we need to meet the interim target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. in caring for the environment, let us remember that greater ambition is always welcome. we only have one planet. just this week, the social democrats also re-introduced a motion for a resolution in the slovenian national assembly on the declaration of a climate and environmental emergency in the republic of slovenia. it is time for slovenia to join the 33 countries that have already done so, as did the european parliament last year, and take its future and the future of our children very seriously.
before continuing the debate and before the first votes of the day, i would like to give the floor to mr gabriele bischoff, who has asked to speak, in accordance with rule 159 (4), on his report on the amendment of the rules of procedure to ensure the functioning of parliament in exceptional circumstances (2020/2098 (reg)) - committee on the constitution, the rules of procedure and the internal market (a9-0194/2020).
thank you, mr bischoff. we're going to continue our conversation.
the following is the agenda for the debate on the recommendation for second reading (a8-0263/2020) by the committee on budgetary control on olaf's cooperation with the eppo and the effectiveness of its investigations (10008/1/2020 c9-0393/2020 - 2018/0170 ((cod)) (rapporteur: marian-jean marinescu). members are informed that this debate will include one round of speeches by the political groups. during this part-session, no requested speeches or blue card questions will be accepted in the debate. i would also point out that the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states. i'm going to give the floor to the speaker, marinescu, for six minutes.
the reporter. madam president, commissioner, this is a very important dossier and i am glad that we have been able to complete it in a very short time compared to the previous negotiations - it took two years, one and a half years, compared to seven years. many colleagues have worked on this dossier, i took over this dossier from my colleague ingeborg grässle and i thank her for the work she has done on this dossier and, of course, the shadow rapporteurs. i think we've managed to do, to bring the text to a very good version. of course, the main objective was to establish cooperation between the eppo and olaf, but at the same time, on the basis of the european parliament's proposals, we have managed to introduce things that will facilitate and improve olaf's work: firstly, transparency within olaf, access to files, but also access to bank accounts in the member states. we have a controller, an independent structure within the supervisory committee, who will check whether the procedural safeguards are being applied correctly. we have procedures, higher standards of procedures for certain activities. at the same time, member states are obliged to report on what they have done with the recommendations in olaf reports, so that there is as much collaboration as possible between member states and between institutions. i hope that now, through this olaf-parchet collaboration, we will have a much better job in defence, in the fight against fraud with european funds. the dossier was voted on in the cont committee by a large majority and i hope the same will happen in parliament. i thank the commissioner for his cooperation and the commissioner's office, it was a very good cooperation and at the same time olaf because we cooperated very well with them and the two croatian and german presidents.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am honoured to be here today to welcome the adoption of the revision of the olaf regulation, which sets the stage for the work of the office in the years to come. as the rapporteur has already said, this marks the end of seven years of discussion and negotiations. i think it is worth mentioning this and stressing the energy that the current and previous rapporteurs put into these negotiations. indeed, we had very intense and, ultimately, very fruitful negotiations on this significant piece of legislation. all the institutions showed commitment and resolve, and it has finally paid off. i would like to thank the european parliament and the council for their work on this initiative. in particular, i would like to recognise the role of the rapporteur, marian-jean marinescu. marian-jean, your determination to close the deal proved pivotal. i would also like to thank the co-rapporteurs who supported you in all your efforts. the olaf regulation needed to be revised inter alia to adapt to the new anti-fraud architecture, which now also includes the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo). however, the regulation that we have ended up with achieves much more. we have strengthened the european anti—fraud office, further equipping it with the tools it needs to protect the union budget. a reformed olaf is key to ensuring that the next european budget and the recovery plan are subject to the best control mechanism. the revised olaf regulation ensures cooperation between olaf and the european public prosecutor’s office and reinforces olaf’s investigative capacity. olaf and the eppo pursue the same objective of protecting the union budget. while they do so within their own mandate, the revised olaf regulation ensures that they also do so in close cooperation. this cooperation relies on three pillars. first, the eppo can rely on the support and expertise of olaf in carrying out its tasks. second, olaf can launch investigations that are complementary to those of the eppo to facilitate recovery or adopt administrative precautionary measures. third, they exchange information before and during investigations through a mutual reporting mechanism. the reformed olaf also has better tools to investigate fraud against the union budget. it may access bank account information under the same conditions that apply to national competent authorities. it will conduct on-the-spot checks, pursuant to clearer rules, and benefit from an enhanced two-way cooperation with national authorities. these improvements go hand in hand with clearer procedural guarantees and the establishment of new functions to ensure their respect, like the controller. to conclude, the commission welcomes the revision of the olaf regulation, which contributes to shaping a revamped eu anti-fraud architecture. i am looking forward to hearing the views of the political groups. may i add that i think it was very timely to have this revision adopted in the light of the now much bigger european budget, with all the possible implications this will have on where we need to protect european taxpayers’ money. therefore, i am grateful for your commitment and, finally, all of your achievements.
madam president, honourable rapporteurs, commissioners, fellow co-rapporteurs, if the next politico publishes a ranking of the most influential politicians and marian-jean marinescu is not there, i will stop receiving it. because the one who did all the work on this legislation was him. marianne-jean, if it weren't embarrassing, i'd kneel before you and all your colleagues, because you've dragged out a legislation that was seven years in the making, with the help of the commissioner in a year and a half. and i am very proud that when i decided who i would give the task of reporting to as the epp coordinator, it was you, because really, marianne-jean, you are one of the best meps we have in this building and in this room. in this report, parliament succeeded in achieving successes in several areas at once. a review body for procedural guarantees was set up, which will also oversee the inclusion of vat. this will give olaf access to bank accounts. however, it is important now to focus on implementing the recommendations that olaf proposes. if we find that olaf's recommendations have not been sufficiently taken into account and that there has been no improvement in the situation, we will have to respond appropriately. we must find other solutions to effectively combat financial fraud, irregularities, conflicts of interest and corruption. we cannot allow any systemic failures or ambiguous conditions, whether financial, legal or disciplinary. after all, it's our money and it's all taxpayers' money. ladies and gentlemen, i wish you a merry christmas and a happy new year.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation on the european public prosecutor's office has been adopted and is due to enter into force by 2020. it is also of the utmost importance that the regulation on the european anti-fraud office, or olaf for short, should also be adapted, because it is important to us to ensure smooth cooperation between these two offices for several reasons. first, the eppo is becoming operational and it is essential that it has smooth relations with the olaf office. secondly, the updated olaf regulation currently strengthens the institution's existing powers while reinforcing olaf's ability to conduct an effective investigation with access, for example, to bank accounts, and thirdly, in the coming months olaf should provide assurances and updates on the independence of the monitoring authority and on stakeholders' access to the reports. i think we all understand why it's extremely important to strengthen olaf's position by improving the effectiveness of legal stability in investigations. this will lead to more comprehensive and effective investigations. the member states' authorities should not be left out of this process either, but on the contrary, they should start to make better use of the results of olaf investigations, and this is key here, because only in this way will it be possible to prevent current and future misuse of european funds. ladies and gentlemen, in the coming years, an unprecedented amount of additional funds will be allocated to support the european economy, the green transition and all our strategies that we have developed in recent years. the additional funds will also be allocated to combat the consequences of the covid crisis, but controlling the spending of these funds is key to ensuring that they are spent in the most effective way and that they really reach european citizens and those most in need.
