madam president, in order to take a position on the matter at hand, we must first ask ourselves: what kind of europe do we want? what europe do we need? how do we want to build our common home? the answer to that, ladies and gentlemen, is very simple: we need a strong europe, a europe which does not need third parties to guarantee its security, because it can do so itself; a europe which no third country can threaten and blackmail, whether by a strike against a member state or by flows of refugees, without repercussions. we need a europe where every member state, no matter how small, has an equal voice; a europe where citizens take part in decisions about their common future. that is the europe we need. that is the europe we must fight for. this europe must be the common future for all of us.
madam president, mr borrell, the current crisis in libya must not leave anyone indifferent. libya is today in danger of becoming a second syria. and that's because some countries, like turkey, have hegemonic tendencies in the region, mr. borrell. turkey has set foot in libya, and we watch, not knowing how to react, clapping our hands. at the moment, the fascist erdoğan is doing whatever he wants to europe. do you think you can go to berlin and make a decision that turkey will respect? tell me what decision or what agreement turkey has respected, and i will agree with you. our task is to monitor any developments in the refugee crisis and the possibility of turkey blackmailing the european union again, apart from the refugee flows to the greek islands and italy. the european union, mr borrell, cannot be the tail end of developments.
madam president, if our aim is to learn from the past, the first thing to recall is that nationalism, irredentism, racism and fascism mean war. adolf hitler pursued his war policies with these ideological tools. the great historian, eric hobsbawm, is accurate when he says that the real reasons for the second world war are two words: ‘adolf’ and ‘hitler’. unfortunately, some are referring to the molotov—ribbentrop pact as the main reason for this war and forget that almost all nations were involved in appeasement policy. distortion of history only condemns us to repeat our past mistakes. for a perpetual peace, we have to learn from our own misdoings, look critically into our own history and struggle against nationalism, racism and anti—semitism. the construction of a common european identity should not be based on otherisation of any kind. we cannot demonise others in order to construct our own identity. what we need is to struggle against nationalism, and we need to be self-aware about our own dark pages.
mr president, the so-called ‘deal of the century’ is a plain violation of international law. it was prepared without consulting one of the parties concerned – the palestinians – and it tends to legitimise illegal israeli settlements, which is a crime of war. it rolls back from the agreements of 1967 and denies palestinians issue to jerusalem as their capital. i regret to say that trump’s plan is not only an assault on palestinian rights, but also an attempt to put forward a new regional order that completely undermines international law. it is a deal which can harm the whole region and is not less unacceptable and not less dangerous than the colonialist sykes—picot agreement from 1916. in an era of chaotic international relations, the eu must stand firm and continue to support the two-state solution with an independent palestinian state within the 1967 borders. furthermore, the eu should make a stand against israeli settlements which violate the relevant un resolutions and show support for the right of palestinian refugees to return to their homes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, mr borrell, we have no need of pontius pilate. the tragedy in syria is now indescribable and every new aspect of it is more shameful. the latest episode is in idlib, where 700 syrian students have been kidnapped by turkish-backed terrorist forces. some are drugged, some are fanatical, and some are thrown into the war meat machine. one million people have been added to the refugee flows. the security zone that tayyip erdoğan, the ruthless erdoğan, was supposed to create has opened the gates of hell. do you hear what's happening? we're not talking about cold numbers, we're talking about people, we're talking about little kids who have dreams and a soul. or do those not count? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. do we take all this into account or do we leave it to evil minds or evil, demonic, so-called "deals of the century"?
madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to thank and welcome all these young people who are here. they are the future of europe; they are the ones we are fighting for. the issue of digital transition is important because it can make everyone's life easier. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment, in particular through the european environment agency. it is an opportunity we must not miss to integrate disabled people better into the labour market. we need to create new jobs. it's an opportunity we shouldn't miss to strengthen health care. member states should promote policies to make public services more user-friendly by tackling red tape dynamically. half of our citizens still lack basic digital skills. the member states must adapt their education systems to the new challenges in order to reduce the gap that exists in europe today.
mr president, commissioner, the real situation with regard to refugees is described very prophetically by the great greek nobel laureate, george seferis, in his book 'helena', as 'so many bodies thrown into the jaws of the sea, into the jaws of the earth; so many souls crushed to the millstones, like wheat'. this is how people are milled up there in the eastern mediterranean; among the millstones; crude and provocative. and you gave the key to mr. erdogan, who is playing us by posing as the protector of refugees. and now you're going to give him, it seems, new gifts by throwing the huge burdens on greece and cyprus. you and your countries take as many refugees as you can spare. mr weber, instead of criticizing the previous greek government, would do well to tell us what he, his country and his party are doing. you're gonna have to start acting with dignity and solidarity. i think that the commission should be very careful to avoid this. the european parliament must be able to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when we talk about seasonal workers or workers who cross borders to go to work, we are talking about people, people with families, people with needs, people who depend on their wages, people who are watching us at this moment in the expectation that, as the european parliament, as europe, we will do everything possible to protect them. our role here today is to send them the message that we understand their needs, that we care about securing their jobs, that we protect them, that we stand with them and not against them. that message must be sent from this room today.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr borrell, today the eastern mediterranean is on fire, countries are being torn apart and people are being killed in order to redistribute land and wealth. turkey is playing a leading role in this attempt to become the regional leader in a piratical way. he already illegally occupies half of cyprus. it is now intervening in syria, libya, iraq and somalia. it also threatens greece and is drilling illegally in the cypriot eez. the european union is offering it a dialogue. the debate must take place, mr borrell, but the limits, the context and the stakes of this debate must be defined with dignity. what is turkey's response? he responds with threats. it activates the migration system and again threatens to unleash new waves of refugees. the european union must finally realise that it is not only cyprus and greece that are now threatened. the credibility of the european union itself is also at stake. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. europe's tolerance of the beast may eventually devour it. is that what we want?
mr president, mr borrell, when you allow someone to attack you, blackmail you, insult you and you do not react, basically all you achieve is to create a situation that is constantly getting out of control and a country that is constantly being eroded. this is what you have suffered, this is what we have suffered as europe with turkey, a country which is under accession - if that is possible! - a country which asks you to negotiate with it what it has stolen. and the most outrageous thing is that it's finding ground. two european union member countries are under constant threat from a country that owns european territory and illegally entered european waters to drill, a country that attacked neighbouring countries, went to bring peace, and has never left. we don't want you to tell us we're right. we know we're right. i want you to tell us what you're going to do to support us in action, in substance, not in words. how will you save, if only for a moment, the dignity of the european union, which has been allowed to be blackmailed by mr erdoğan? it is time that the principles and values of the european union prevail over the interests of the individual.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the european union is not secured by the single market alone. nor can the sense of 'we' or 'together' be built on profit alone. if there is one thing that will bring the citizens of the european union together, it is culture and civilization. the european union is unfortunately not giving the cultural sector the attention it deserves. it is a fact that the cultural sector has been brutally hit during the coronavirus pandemic. many member states, like my own country, cyprus, have virtually forgotten the cultural sector and its people, who have been waiting for months for some support, but are content with promises. we call for a substantial increase in the funding programme for culture for the period 2021-2027 and an adequate financial incentive package for cultural creators across europe, a comprehensive plan to support cultural creativity groups. only in this way can we invest in our own feelings and in those of future generations.
mr president, in the eastern mediterranean the cold war is being revived and the old rivalries for the conquest of territory and the distribution of the wealth of the peoples of the region are being revived. mr. borrell, let's be honest with each other. it is not just the old empires that are coming back; there are new empires in this dangerous game - nato and the european union. the main protagonist, of course, is turkey, with its piratical activities, which violate international law, the law of the sea and the sovereign rights of cyprus and greece. we condemn in the strongest terms the new turkish plan to colonize sand kossuth. the european union can no longer be distorted. the european union is sharing sanctions with both right and left, but turkey is being indulged. clearly, the tension must be tempered by sincere action. the oruç reis is gone and it's not gone. but yavuz and barbaros are still off the coast of cyprus. the european union must be able to take part in the negotiations, and the european union must be able to take part in the negotiations, and the european union must be able to take part in the negotiations, and the european union must be able to take part in the negotiations.
mr president, mr borrell, we are already too late to put a stop to the uncontrolled and provocative behaviour of the criminal erdoğan and his entourage. we have seen turkey enter into dialogue: now, under the threat of measures. we are not going to allow the european parliament to be the arbiter of the decisions of the council of ministers. i do not think there is anyone here who would not argue that it is now necessary to impose measures on turkey. we must send a message from this chamber to the fascist erdoğan, who is oppressing even his own people, that the european union is here, not threatened and not blackmailed. it is time to show that this family, our european family, stands up and supports partners in practice, not just in words. it puts law, principles and values above interests. as we deal with every lukashenko, we should deal with erdoğan.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but for some of us, it was to be expected, and we've been warning about this for a long, long time. when the burden of migration was placed on the shoulders of a few member states, with most of us exercising a safe-guarded criticism by pulling our tails out of the responsibility, did you really not expect what happened? when greek officials told us here in brussels that greece could not carry the burden alone and we responded by accusing it of crimes without any proof, did you not really expect all that to happen? i would like to hear one more truth, commissioner. do you know that in my country, cyprus, today, 3.8% of the population, in a semi-occupied country, are asylum seekers and refugees? if something happens there, who will be blamed in this hemisphere? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. until they understand that, we'll have phenomena like what we saw in moria, and the responsibility is now collective.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr michel, for two years turkey has been pursuing its illegal activities in the cypriot eez. for two years now, we have unfortunately been witnessing a theatre of bad taste. the european council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will take a decision on it in december, for reasons which are well known to all of us. the sanctions are not an end in themselves, mr michel, but they will give turkey a positive political agenda. but turkey must change course, stop violating the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus, enter into negotiations with a positive attitude for a solution to the cyprus problem on the basis of a bi-zonal bi-communal federation, and stop threatening and methodising the illegal settlement of famagusta. because yavuz has left the cypriot seas, and that is good, but the ghost town, the town of sandbox, is threatened again and in danger. 450 years after its siege for a year and its occupation by lalla mustafa, despite the heroic resistance of a venetian, mr president, mr sassoli, of the marcantonian bridegroom, sandbox is again threatened by illegal settlement. the sandbox is a european affair. the european union must act immediately to prevent this from happening again, because if the sandbox is settled, it will be the final nail in the coffin for the solution of the cyprus problem. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity, but that it is a political entity, and that it is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity, but that it is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is a political entity. europe must act now, literally now, because tomorrow it will be too late.
mr president, mr borrell, the images coming in from the international agencies are harsh and unrelenting. dead civilians and azerbaijani forces backed by turkish military, military helicopters, drones and mercenary jihadists celebrate the seizure of territory. i really wonder how much longer we're gonna be equating the perpetrator with the victim. azerbaijan and turkey attack and the armenians in nagorno karabakh defend. that's enough! no more tolerance! let all those who turn their backs on erdogan and aliyev understand that they are raising a monster, which we will one day find in front of us. yesterday mr erdogan spat in europe's face and opened up warsaw, the occupied warsaw, unpunished by the european union and the responsibilities here for some are unbearable. we stand with the armenian people. 105 years after the genocide, turkey and its ally aliyev are once again in the way of the armenian people. but this time, they'll find us all facing them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, we are discussing a very serious matter here, on which we must make some assumptions, and i begin by saying that the programme had its weaknesses, which were exploited by some people, and they must take responsibility, apologize and pay the price. at the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that this programme was adopted by some countries, such as cyprus, in response to the economic crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively and that the budgetary resources allocated to the community budget are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. i would also like to add the following: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is implemented in a timely manner, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i repeat that there is a responsibility and that it must be passed on to those who are responsible, however high they may be. what i do not accept is the attempt by some to deliberately target cyprus and its people in this extremely difficult period we are going through in my homeland because of turkish aggression, for which some here do not show the same sensitivity. the aim here, commissioner, should be to strike at corruption, those involved in it and those who have committed illegal acts, and not to humiliate an entire people who are currently fighting for their survival. so we have to be very careful.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, the european left has been very wary of these programmes from the beginning, mainly because of its concerns about money laundering, corruption and tax evasion. the gue stresses that these programmes, particularly when they do not include safety nets to channel resources to social development, favour the rich and the circles rather than the ordinary people in the countries implementing them. i am a member of the european parliament from cyprus and i feel a double duty to stress the need to put an end to all these programmes, which have become sickly centres of corruption and deception for circles that trade in european citizenship or even for programmes that become a gateway to the european union for fraudsters from all over the world. i represent my people, the ordinary citizens of cyprus, who have neither seen nor heard nor know about these things and it is unfair to target them. i do admit, however, that the citizenship programme in cyprus has caused enormous problems on my island, particularly in the way it has been transformed and handled by the government of cyprus, which has unfortunately not listened to the european commission's suggestions to bring about the right changes. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used to support the implementation of the budget.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr borrell, sandviken, the easternmost city of the european union, was occupied by turkish troops in august 1974. since then it has remained a silent, uninhabited city, a ghost town, a black spot in the history of all europe, but a living city that has been waiting for its inhabitants to return for 46 years. instead of the people, they went the day before yesterday, not by chance, on november 15, the anniversary of the proclamation of the pseudo-state, mr. tatar together with mr. erdogan for a picnic. it was a provocative act that provoked the wrath of both the living and the dead. many of our turkish cypriot compatriots protested this action, as well as erdogan's attempt to assimilate them, calling for democracy and freedom. the ghosts of the dead residents of sandcastle roamed among the uninvited guests. the provocation of erdogan and turkey in cyprus and varosha is unbearable. the opening up of part of varosha and its threatened settlements, which will certainly be a difficulty in the solution of the cyprus problem, undermines the efforts of the un secretary-general. they're already talking about two states. dozens of statements, reports and resolutions such as un 550 and 789 call on erdogan and turkey to hand over the city to its rightful residents. the provocation of erdogan is not to be tamed. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the problem in cyprus can only be solved if negotiations are resumed from where they left off in crans-montana, on the basis of a bi-zonal bi-communal federation, with political equality, in a way that will share the wealth of the peoples of the region on the basis of international law, so as to bring peace to the place and the region and, moreover, to save the european union's credibility, which mr erdogan is provocatively undermining.
in writing. i belong to the generation that experienced the turkish barbarity in my country and saw with my own eyes thousands of my compatriots take the path of refuge and to this day no one has returned. i have had the blessing of the people of cyprus to be elected as a member of the european parliament and i have sworn to do everything possible to rid my country of the turkish invader. the violation of human rights and the violation of the principles and values of the european union are flagrant. but some people insist on giving the fascist erdoğan a pass and content themselves with phrased excuses. the kind that erdogan reads and laughs at. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. the road of severe sanctions and measures against turkey, so that erdoğan and every erdoğan who mocks our european family will know that such behaviour is not tolerated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, as the english historian, lord acton, emphasised in the19th century, and i quote, ‘the most certain test by which we judge whether a country is really free is the amount of security enjoyed by minorities.’ in this regard, i welcome the resolution of this house and its call to support national and linguistic minorities. speaking of our linguistic rights, i would like to take this opportunity to bring to your attention the fact that my country, cyprus, is a bicommunal and bilingual state, and has two official languages: greek and turkish. please take note. i am not talking about minority languages, but official ones. however, as a turkish-speaking cypriot, i am probably the one mep who cannot speak in his mother tongue, although it’s an official language of a member state. i call upon all eu institutions to correct this huge mistake, which not only does not help for the reunification of cyprus but also discriminates against turkish cypriot eu citizens.
