madam president, this is not the first time that australia has been struck by fires. but the continuing drought and record high temperatures in december have made the situation much worse. twenty-eight people have died and rare species of wildlife are in danger of extinction. an area larger than belgium and denmark combined has been reduced to ashes. it is strikingly absurd, of course, that the countries with the largest fires -- australia, brazil, the united states -- led by mr. trump and some of my colleagues here today, who believe that climate change is not man-made, don't want the paris agreement to be implemented. indeed, your thinking is reminiscent of those who hunted galileo centuries ago. what are we supposed to do? we must fight to implement the paris agreement and, at the same time, we must find the necessary money so that the european civil protection mechanism (resceu), for which i am the rapporteur of the european parliament, is ready in 2021, so that it can deal with the consequences of climate change both in europe and in the third world.
madam president, vice-president šefčovič, if one were to look for three terms to describe the causes of the tragedy in australia, one could speak of 'negligence', 'over-exploitation' and 'cynicism'. in australia, in december 2018, annual emissions of greenhouse pollutants increased by 558 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. australia insists on practically denying climate change and that is why its electricity generation is 60% coal-fired. there are people, even here in the european parliament, who deny the existence of climate change; but fortunately for all of us, they're marginalized. the tragedy in australia can be a catalyst in our external relations as the european union. as leaders in tackling climate change, we must expand and support the alliance of stakeholders (countries, regions and industries) working to implement the paris agreement. the green deal can be our new tool and our heavy economic weapon. it is time to act in the name of the many. preventing another tragedy and providing a perspective for new growth, with new sustainable jobs that will support the sustainability of the planet.
madam president, along with thousands of citizens, i feel a certain helplessness when i see the loss of life and the destruction of nature, animals. however, i'm sure i'm rational about this, it's a consequence of climate change, and i'm going to turn to my colleagues on the left, because extreme heat and extreme drought are not a consequence of green ideology. if it was just a consequence of green ideology, we could deal with it. but because it's the result of climate change, which is causing extreme climate change, which is causing extreme temperatures, that's why these fires are happening. the citizens are asking what we're going to do about it. i thank commissioner šefčovič for the commission's offer of support to the australian government, because of course citizens contribute financially to various collections, but they ask how the european union can help and if necessary the eu will help. but our response is the green deal measures, and i believe they will help.
madam president, we all have in mind pictures of wildfires in australia, thirsty koalas asking cyclists for water, and thousands of citizens ending up on the beaches. i would like to express my support for the australian government, the firefighters for their extraordinary work, and the australian citizens at this difficult time. therefore, let me encourage our institutions and member states to be open to help australia through any financial, human, or material resources to tackle this dramatic situation. for that reason, i welcome the offer made by the president of the european council to provide any assistance, and by several member states to send firefighters. i would also like to emphasise the work done by the european space agency and its copernicus emergency management service mapping, which provided great assistance to australian firefighters with the monitoring of bushfires.
madam president, the principle of equal pay for men and women is enshrined in the treaties, in all the laws of the european union. it is also part of the social development objectives and it is also part of the social pillar which we ourselves have endorsed. the president of the commission herself has made this a priority in this new strategy for equality - the commissioner has even said so - with binding measures so that we can really eliminate this attack on human rights which means paying differently for work of equal value. it's been said here, it has consequences throughout life: lower social security contributions, pension gap, risk of poverty, risk of violence, multiple causes, stereotypes. women are entering and leaving the labour market, because there is the issue of motherhood, they work more part-time, they also have more temporary jobs. we must fight the glass ceiling and that is why we are proposing - in line with what the commissioner has said - greater pay transparency, combating occupational segregation, and having an agile and flexible labour market. and finally, i would say that this will be to everyone's advantage, because we will have more european values and more democracy.
mr president, when i started my first real job in 1987, i was delighted. we started with a group of men and women all working at the same job. we did the same job for the same money. at least, i thought so, until we found out that the men earned more than me and my other female colleagues. we went to a lawyer, who typed a nice letter to management, and fortunately, there was no need for a judge to intervene, but taking action against pay disparity works. the pay gap exists. they're not fairy tales, they're not myths. men still earn more than women, on average in the netherlands 5 000 euro per year. this can and must be different. that is why i welcome the commissioner's plan to introduce legislation on pay transparency within the first hundred days, so that we are not working to close the gender pay gap by the year 2100.
madam president, the czech republic has the second largest average wage differential between working women and men. it's a whopping 21.1%. although women in the czech republic are more educated, they predominate in lower-paid workplaces. they are more likely to work in very important but less well-paid positions in education, health and social care. and they are underrepresented in management positions 15% of women in the czech republic are on supervisory boards and 5% on boards. it is also very important to see the impact of the gender pay gap on the feminization of poverty, with women in retirement and single mothers falling into poverty in particular. the eu should promote equality between men and women, for example by establishing a binding definition of 'equal pay for equal work' in the 2006 equal opportunities directive or in the pay transparency and transparency in pay disclosure directive for european companies. equality is not yet a given.
madam chair, treating a sick planet on parts of one continent with enormous costs and ineffectiveness with significant side effects is a bizarre idea. mrs. von der leyen is said to have studied medicine. the doctor's first order is primum non nocere (first of all, do no harm). i'm afraid the green deal is nowhere near ready to be implemented responsibly. we're here to discuss how to inject funds to fairly heal the damage done to society by the future implementation of the chemically ambitious projects. we're supposed to collect money from everyone and treat the most damaged. we hear all "should", "must". but we know what happens when you have ambitious plans with unfinished business and ignored consequences. your projects are in the fog. a society governed by ideology always ends badly.
madam president, the iranian regime has killed peaceful protesters and is supporting violent terrorist groups in its neighbourhood. that is undisputed. oppressing one’s citizens and funding terror groups cannot come without international consequences. if history is a guide, the us strategy of regime change – we currently see it unfold – will not, however, change that. libya, iraq, afghanistan: the list of failed interventions goes on. regime change via military action is the worst possible choice. we europeans must make this clear to our american counterparts. hellfire missiles do not stabilise regions, diplomatic dialogue and enforceable economic and security agreements do. mr borrell, make this clear to the united states: europeans will not support military intervention in iran. we support peaceful protesters and we support economic and security cooperation with iran, based on human rights and freedoms.
mr president, my point is a bit moot, but i just wanted to ask if you could wait a bit before everybody gets seated and you get their attention, because there was a lot of noise here and what you said couldn’t be heard.
madam president, i did not support the green deal resolution today, although i support a number of the proposals put forward by the commission, such as increasing biodiversity, protecting soil, forests, etc. but in some areas, the proposals go to extremes, which will not achieve the stated objective but will, on the contrary, place an extreme burden on the citizens of our countries. i wonder if those who supported it today asked their constituents if they would agree to the multiple increases in electricity or heat that these proposals unfortunately bring. have you also asked your constituents if they agree that many of the existing jobs will be eliminated? i think you're hiding all these negative consequences from your constituents. and looking at the protests and strikes in some member states over the slight increase in gasoline prices, i wonder how you intend to publicly defend the proposals you've endorsed today.
madam president, the green deal for europe is doing great things to clean the air, to conserve resources, to revitalise forests, to retain water in the landscape. but at the same time, the resulting text is too radical, it sets unrealistic targets and i could not support it, because the reduction target for 2030 is absolutely unrealistic and the resources that the european commission promised here yesterday, €1 billion per year for the whole eu from the budget, is literally a ridiculous amount like spitting in canada. and the two amendments that we have tabled to support nuclear energy, which could help this transition, for example, people who are dependent on district heating, those amendments did not pass, and that is why i voted against this resolution.
madam president, thank you for the floor and for the opportunity to explain my position on the annual report, which i could not support. on the one hand, the report describes very accurately the threats and challenges facing the european union and its member states. whether it's the assertive behavior of russia's politicians towards its neighbors, hybrid threats or cyberattacks. but with the rising tensions in the middle east, i would caution against blurring the clear line between who is good and who is evil. who is the originator of the conflict and who is merely responding to it. who wants to destroy other nations and who wants to survive and prosper. in this respect, the eu should change its policy in the middle east. it should clearly identify the current leadership of iran as the greatest threat and, conversely, israel as our partner. it should help the people of iran who are hungry for change, and that's what i'm missing here.
the question posed by the blue card. mr. speaker, i would like to ask you, after all you've said, if you could wait for the next point, where we're going to be discussing the criminal prosecution of the czech prime minister andrej babiš, who, according to the slovak court, was a former collaborator of the communist secret service and lived in the ksč. it is now sitting in the european council and it is now contributing its voice to the fact that the problems we are seeing in poland and hungary cannot be solved. so i would ask you if you could wait here and be as vocal as you were in this case.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the reopening of the criminal proceedings against the prime minister of the czech republic for the misuse of eu funds and potential conflicts of interest (2019/2987 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, let me first assure you that the council attaches great importance to making sure that eu funds are used according to the rules and that expenditure respects the principle of sound financial management. i am aware of allegations, including in the media, against the czech prime minister regarding a possible conflict of interest in respect of eu subsidies from the european structural and investment funds. i also understand that the czech authorities are further investigating the case. you will understand that it is not for the council to comment on ongoing national investigations. let me therefore stress here that it is important to let the judicial instances do their work properly. i’m also aware that the commission, as they indicated in the plenary in december, has conducted an audit, and i will listen to what the commission will tell us today. let me assure you that we agree that it is of the utmost importance that strong mechanisms are applied to protect the union’s financial interests and to make sure that the money is spent in an appropriate and lawful way. the council has therefore strongly supported different initiatives that strengthen the protection of the union’s financial interests, such as the creation of the european public prosecutor’s office, which will become operational later this year, or the directive on the fight against fraud to the union’s financial interests by means of criminal law. while i cannot provide any council views on specific cases of fraud or corruption allegations, i will carefully listen to your debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members thank you for the opportunity for the commission to present the state of play in this matter. let me start by making three points very clear. first, the commission has zero tolerance for fraud or misuse of eu funds. second, the commission always diligently follows up on information or complaints with respect to conflict of interest in all member states. third, the commission has been and is taking broad and coordinated action with respect to alleged conflicts of interest in the czech republic. what are the facts, and where are we in the audit procedure? the commission services carried out audits in the czech republic in january and february 2019. these audits relate to the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the european agricultural fund for rural development. they are currently at different stages of the procedure. the audits for the european social fund and the european regional development fund are now in the follow-up stage. the final audit report provided to the czech authorities does not represent the final step of the audit process for the european regional development fund and the european social fund. the contents of the final audit report should therefore remain confidential until the procedure is closed. this means until the commission has taken a final position as appropriate, in relation to the follow-up that the audit team will give to it. for the rural development investment measures, the commission has communicated its letter of findings to the member states, including preliminary conclusions and recommendations to avoid any situation of conflict of interest in the future. the contradictory procedure is ongoing, and the next step is a bilateral meeting with the czech authorities. for all funds, the whole procedure until adoption of possible financial corrections can take up to 24 months. confidentiality of the audit is a basic principle and of utmost importance. the commission must ensure a fair and robust process. former commissioner oettinger and now commissioner hahn have shared preliminary information with the committee on budgetary control of this house, in camera. under the confidentiality rules, i will therefore not comment on the substance of the audit findings today. let me assure you that, while the audits go on, the eu budget is fully protected. no payments from the eu budget under the european structural and investment funds are being made to projects that could potentially be concerned by alleged conflict of interest. in relation to the rural development fund, the commission is not reimbursing to czech authorities the amounts related to projects that could be potentially concerned by the alleged conflict of interest. let me now say a few words on the stork’s nest project. the commission and the european anti-fraud office (olaf) have reacted promptly to investigate potential fraud with respect to eu funding for the stork’s nest project. in december 2017, olaf finalised its investigation. it recommended to the commission to recover the full subsidy. olaf also recommended to the competent czech judicial authorities to take into account all of the findings in the ongoing national judicial investigation. the czech authorities withdrew the project from eu financing and recovered the funds from the beneficiary. consequently, there was no impact on either the eu or the national budget. the ongoing national judicial investigation is the exclusive competence of the czech authorities. finally, as regards the situation in other member states, the commission will equally follow up on allegations of non-resolved conflicts of interest in other member states. in addition, the commission is providing support to all member states to correctly implement measures aimed at avoiding conflicts of interest.
mr president, commissioners, representatives of the european council, this debate is geared towards audits and investigations, but let us take it a little more generally. let's say what the principle of the european union is. we have been assured by commissioner hahn on several occasions that everyone is measured by the same yardstick. i will tell you from experience how it works, for example, in the czech republic, when there is a mistake in the use of european subsidies. immediately, a financial audit is initiated, immediately a refund is claimed, and immediately, if you have violated the laws of the czech republic, you will be prosecuted. but it's not just this case. we have made some new regulations, which by the way, prime minister andrej babiš participated in as minister of finance, and this regulation, once it concerns his person, we can't enforce it. the council has said that it will not interfere in the ongoing investigation, which is what we expect, but we want a clear opinion from the council as to whether the prime minister can really, in the light of the audit report and the confidential information that has been provided to some media in connection with it, cooperate in the investigation and in the adoption of the new budget. and that's what this debate should show. otherwise, i was supposed to have a minute and a half on my schedule, so i don't know if that's really what happened.
mr president, those who know me and many of my colleagues sitting here today know that i have never been averse to a constructive debate on any subject. but if the debate is to be constructive, it must be built on solid foundations. and that condition is not met here today. we have nothing but impressions, prejudices, perhaps personal animosity, and above all, we are transferring the domestic political battle from the czech republic to the union soil. let's just summarize what we're talking about. as regards the audit - and the commissioner has said it here - there is standard communication between the czech republic and the european commission. in other matters, the standard work of czech authorities involved in criminal proceedings is carried out, the standard process is carried out at the level of czech justice. we respect the presumption of innocence. because no matter what conclusions we reach here today, these processes will continue. in this situation, i find this point completely irrelevant on a programme that lacks meaning and justification. i therefore have no choice but to state that the debate is political in nature and that unfortunately the persistent efforts of some of my czech opposition colleagues have been heard. but i consider it inappropriate and extremely unfortunate that the european parliament is being drawn into national political competition, in terms of the credibility of our work.
mr. chairman, i am not a fan of the prime minister of the czech republic, andrej babiš, but i care about democracy. prime minister babiš graduated from a privileged faculty for foreign trade, joined the communist party and, by cooperating with the secret service, fulfilled the conditions for representing the czech republic abroad. as an environmental expert, he seized huge production capacities, first in the chemical industry, then in the food industry and agriculture, during the great privatisation after 1989. later he bought a significant part of the czech media. thanks to clever professional marketing and the inability of competing political parties, his political project ano (english: yes) made it to the czech parliament and the government on its first attempt in 2013. he won the next election by a large margin and became prime minister. his companies have received european subsidies on a large scale. political competition has never been reconciled to defeat. she forced the prime minister to put his companies into a trust fund. the standard billionaire promotes his own advantage by corrupting politicians and their parties. the prime minister has set up a company which has set up an entertainment business with european subsidies. apparently, he was unethically circumventing the rules. but that's for an independent tribunal to decide. the media harassment of prime minister babis and the anti-government street rally supported by the prime minister's opposition certainly cost a lot of money. the prime minister's party preferences, however, have not diminished, rather the opposite. he would have won the election by a landslide. the real cause of the current situation is the european union system that enables corruption through subsidies to private enterprises. competition is replaced by competition for subsidies, which are a tool to ensure dependence on the eu system and thus its maintenance. the handling of possible criminal cases on a political platform is also typically a totalitarian practice. that's what's going on here.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, let us be blunt: there is corruption in european funds. as chairman of the committee on regional development, i want to say that a relentless fight must be waged against corruption in the structural funds because it is a question of the credibility of our policy and it is also a question of trust in the european institutions. and in this struggle, you will find us and you will find me on your side, as you will find me and you will find us on your side so that the case of conflicts of interest and alleged fraud, if not corruption, in the czech republic will be followed up. we have set up a european public prosecutor's office to improve this fight. the head of the european public prosecutor's office, ms kövesi, has just been appointed, and what do we learn? that its resources are not up to the fight that must be waged, which is why we must work towards the budgetary independence of the european public prosecutor's office. the latter will only be fully independent and able to pursue its objectives if it has the means to carry out this essential fight against corruption on the cap and on the structural funds to protect our european budget.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council, ladies and gentlemen! first of all, this debate, dear colleague charanzová, is not an internal czech debate, and i think that explains my contribution, along with that of mrs von cramon-taubadel. i am not concerned with the question of how justice is carried out in detail in the czech republic. we are not opposed to investigations and judicial proceedings, but i have two questions and i ask the commission and the council to support me in this. the first point is that european funding must not promote oligarchic structures, which means that we must promote and clarify both the issue of 'conflict of interest', article 61, and what i would call 'anti-oligarchy legislation' within our european institutions. and the second thing we have to clarify is: how much european funding can one person receive in a year and in a mff? because otherwise we lose credibility if one person gets 100, 200, 300, 400 million and other people maybe just 5,000. then the imbalance is too great.
mr. chairman, i'd like to set the record straight. prime minister babiš initiated the creation of the ano anti-corruption movement in 2011. people vote for him because he's hardworking and incorruptible. the donation that is the subject of the prosecution took place in 2008, but the initiation of criminal proceedings did not occur until 2016. of the original 11 defendants, only two remain. in september 2019, the prosecution of the prime minister was even stopped. but the attorney general needed some information and he dropped the stay. the conflict of interest procedure is between the commission and the member state. it has been made clear that the politicization of this process is highly detrimental to the whole thing. the prime minister has followed the law, transferred the companies to a trust. however, there is a conflict of interest in the interpretation of the concept of 'conflict of interest'. let the experts handle this, not the opposition politicians. in conclusion, the european parliament's floor has been unfortunately used to shift the domestic political situation and those who do so are damaging the eu in the eyes of czech citizens.
mr president, it is rather difficult to continue with something new after the debates on poland and hungary. unfortunately, i think that andrej babiš should be the kind of the last alarm clock that reminds us that it's really time to wake up, because this situation, this setup of our mechanisms to control financial flows within the european union is just not good. the way in which andrej babis has circumvented the european conflict of interest regulation is basically very primitive. he simply transferred his companies to a trust fund, which, of course, he controls through his relatives and can essentially cancel it at any time. this is basically a very trivial trick and the primitive actions of a saloon con man. but let's look at the other part. andrej babiš is the owner of one of the largest economic groups in the czech republic and receives a very significant part of european subsidies. it uses this money to spread its influence within the czech republic and to maintain its position. here, the european union directly finances his political campaign through agrofert to the chamber of deputies of the czech republic, the european parliament and other institutions. this is a problem because the state then acts as the lawyer of andrei babiš and unfortunately protects not only him but also other friendly businessmen or politicians or whatever you want to call them who operate in a similar way in other countries. in the european council, when we talk about any serious measures, we need unanimity, and unfortunately if these oligarchs are covering for each other, we will never be able to achieve that.
mr. chairman, the citizens of the czech republic are tired of constantly discussing prime minister babiš. i'm warning you, the more his cases are dealt with, the more his voter preferences are built. please let the czech municipal courts decide. there is no one on the floor of the european parliament who can point to granny and say: "you are guilty". this is an internal matter of the czech republic and its courts, including the voters. are there really no more important matters on the floor of this house? this parliament is committed to gender balance. and so i have no choice but to ask for the establishment of a commission to look into the activities of the president of the european commission, von den leyen, who has also been the subject of suspicions that everything she has done in the ministry of defence of the federal republic of germany has been unclean and that she is in a conflict of interest. the commission should either remove or confirm this shadow of suspicion and, on the basis of the results of the investigation, the president should assume political responsibility.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i think that the protection of the biodiversity is key and the time for this debate is timely organised because, just today, the world economic forum has published a report about the terrible biodiversity losses all over the world. the problem is that it’s not so much in europe. it’s outside of europe. the papers which are being prepared here in this building, beyond some important recommendations and measures such as to protect the habitats, to contain the borders, how to revitalise the forests, are, unfortunately, also filled with many regulatory socialist measures, which i think, at the end, would not be so helpful and could bring, on the contrary, a lot of harm. as an example, there are these iconic carnivores with a problem to cope with mankind: lions, tigers and wolf. so lions and tigers, because they are living in underdeveloped countries, they have the problems, while the wolf, in northern countries, including europe, is now protected and extending its range, expanding its numbers. take the steps which would bring good and not harm.
mr president, first of all it should be said that the european union as a whole is not a party to the un convention on biological diversity. the 193 un member states are parties to the treaty. the european commission's initiative is just another ambitious project to raise huge money for vaguely defined projects. to protect natural diversity and mitigate the deterioration of climate change, europe should not embark on projects such as the eu mercosur treaty that will lead to further irreversible destruction of forests for livestock and crops for export. wildlife sanctuaries are being destroyed by corporate greed and overpopulation and resource depletion. in december, a majority of mps here approved industrial fishing of the gambia river for a pittance that will not help the natives or the wildlife. this is what conservation looks like in practice.
madam president, i am standing here today to denounce the problem of revolving doors between eu institutions and private lobby groups. too often, senior eu officials leave their high level positions in order to exploit inside information and contacts to the benefit of private sector lobbying. whilst senior eu officials already have the obligation to report on the new functions they intend to take, this is too often ignored. post-public employment conflict of interest has really become a systemic problem that has the potential to endanger our integrity and reputation. eu institutions should be an example of high ethical and transparency standards. this is why i call on the commission to do more to prevent such conflicts of interests and on the european court of auditors to look into this systemic issue and identify best practices. last october, the commission promised to review the post-employment ethical regulations. and in order not just to criticise, but also to provide some solutions, i would like to ask for four things: first, a harmonised legal framework, which would apply the same ethical standards at eu and national level; second, establishment of an independent ethical body to investigate all problematic cases; third, a mandatory 12-months’ cooling-off period to forbid a former senior eu official to lobby his ex-colleagues. finally, in order to ensure maximum transparency of our public institutions, declarations of interests and finding of conflicts of interests shall be published online to make it accessible to all citizens.
madam president, the debate on the future of the european union is not only very necessary in the context of brexit. but the task we voted on is very narrow and misleading. the debate on the future of the eu should not only lead to a further transfer of powers from the member states to the eu, but should also focus on brexit and the actual functioning of the union. existing union competences should be audited and those that are not necessary for the union should be returned to the national states. but they don't count on that reflection in the designs. they only count on further integration and a repeated game of european elections, which has already failed twice. i fear that the result will be further alienation of citizens from the eu and further growth of extremist forces in europe, which is why i did not support this proposal.
madam president, in two weeks we shall be saying goodbye to our british friends, we shall see each other for the last time in the brussels plenary, and one would hope that we will learn somehow from this, that we will not push the envelope, that we will take the reins of reason. unfortunately, the debate that's opening up here is the exact opposite. just to keep pushing the gas towards an ever closer european union is what will divide europe, the nations among themselves and the nobility here in this building from the ordinary people on the ground. and i, as a man who has been cheering that we have gotten rid of communism and become part of western europe, i just look at it and see that today my conservative faction is excluded from this debate because our views don't fit in the store, while the communists here in this building who want to hug putin and who want to break up nato are welcome in this debate.
in writing. – the fact that the uk is no longer member of the eu does not mean that all of a sudden it does not need better protection for its platform workers anymore or an increase of the minimum wage. quite the opposite! as a social democrat i realise that unity makes strength. only together we can take on big platforms and asocial multinationals. by exchanging information, ideas, know-how and eventually proper regulation, we will still be able to help each other, with the eu connecting us. we have a common interest that the uk will not turn into a second singapore on thames. i am sure that the relationships that were built in the european parliament will remain close, long after the brexit. our shared values will continue to bring us together.
in writing. – friday, 31 january 2020 is not a happy date in the history of european integration, but it is good that we can put the difficult negotiations on the withdrawal agreement behind us and start focusing on the most important task: negotiating our future relationship with united kingdom. the countdown starts friday midnight. time is tight and the number of issues and challenges to deal with are enormous. let’s keep in mind that the uk is leaving the european union, but not europe. we will still remain partners, allies and most of all, friends, although the institutional set-up will change. we will still share the same values, the same economic interests such as free trade, the same security concerns and the same responsibilities to be strong global actors promoting peace and stability in our neighbourhood and in the world. in the negotiations, let’s be ambitious and pragmatic, let’s talk frankly and openly, but let’s always remain constructive and flexible. this is the only way to build a solid foundation for our future relationship which should be nothing less than a true strategic partnership.
madam president, on sunday, january 16th, a great tragedy occurred in the czech republic. eight people died in a fire at a home for the disabled in vejprte, and another 30 had to be hospitalized. i want to express my deepest condolences to the survivors and thank all those who risked their lives to prevent further deaths and injuries. it's important to think about the cause of the fire. the transformation of social services in the czech republic has almost come to a standstill. it's no longer a social or political issue. people with disabilities often live in poorly designed large-scale institutions, lack adequate individual support and often become more dependent on care. this is often related to staff shortages and insufficient and unpredictable funding of social services. the situation is similar in other member states. this is not the direction the european union should be heading. the european parliament is currently preparing a resolution on the post-2020 disability strategy. i urge you to treat this document with all seriousness and responsibility.
madam president, yesterday we had a sad day, marked with a sad song, and the first impact is already here; we are losing english as our lingua franca, as our way of common understanding, and a language is at the core of a common understanding. and we can even use somehow the opportunity with brexit because english becomes a neutral language – acceptable for us czechs, for the germans, for the french, but we see exactly the opposite: everybody speaks in their mother language, with some notable exceptions, and the others are not listening at all. so, the commission work programme is a full—of—ambitions goal, without any impact assessments, but there is nothing about promoting english as our lingua franca. so, my question is whether you are planning to do something to eliminate the tower of babel syndrome and to promote our common understanding at the core of our communication – that’s language.
madam president, i supported the withdrawal agreement with the united kingdom yesterday, as did the overwhelming majority of my colleagues in this chamber. i regret britain's departure, but we should all be working now to make our future relationship the best it can be. but brexit should also be a warning to those of us who remain in the eu. the same dissatisfaction with eu developments as in britain is found in a number of other member states, including the czech republic. it has not yet reached the scale of britain, but we should be aware of this discontent. and we should take it into account in the negotiations on the future of the eu that will take place in the years ahead. we should stop and review the activities that the eu is carrying out. we will certainly find a number of those that do not have to be implemented and that should be returned to the member states.
madam president, i did not vote for this resolution. of course, i'm also annoyed that the old charger doesn't fit in the new phone, but that's called technological progress. if you look at the big shift that's happened in the last five years, without any resolution from us, you see a huge difference. there were 30 different kinds of cartridges, and they were much bigger, and there are a few of them today. the single charger will stop development and new technologies that will be available in, for example, the united states of america or asia will not be available to citizens of the european union. let's not tell private companies what to make and what to sell. these interventions are justified only in the case of health protection. and that's not the case here.
madam president, we as a delegation of european pirates voted in favour of the resolution because the gender pay gap is a serious issue that needs to be addressed. we have, however, voted against particular text in paragraph 13 concerning binary gender quotas, which in our opinion are not a proper instrument for how to solve the gender pay gap. we believe skills and knowledge are the key aspects of qualification not belonging to a specific category. as mentioned in our political programme, a long-term solution is needed to ensure equality, not quotas. instead, we need to introduce measures to enhance pay transparency, invest in accessibility and affordability of childcare, create suitable working environments and promote agreements with sufficient flexibility to increase participation of women in the labour market. thus, in the case of the opening of a debate on this, as suggested by paragraph 13, we will continue to speak against gender quotas.
madam president, i fear that many, many enthusiasts for an integrated eu without nations and borders are threatened with revenge for brexit. mr verhofstadt made it clear that the united kingdom should not be granted autonomy in any way. but today, the uk is a member of the european free trade association, so under the treaty, the eu cannot impose restrictions on its trade in industrial products. so, in effect, what remains is trucking, financial services and agriculture. but in the age of internet banking, there's no effective way to interfere with british banks. attempts to impede agricultural markets could have a much worse effect on the eu, as could retaliatory sanctions against the russian federation. the one without imports from europe achieved self-sufficiency in 2 years. the united kingdom is barely able to afford the damage to its agriculture caused by dumped imports. the eu will suffer much more from a disagreement with the uk than the other way around.
madam president, free trade generally creates wealth for both sides. so how can i, as a pro-european politician, oppose the ratification of the current eu-vietnam agreement? because it gives an authoritarian regime a blank check to trade with the world's largest economic bloc without enforceable terms. by ratifying the treaties today, we will tell the communist party of vietnam that the eu supports a surveillance state with a one-party monopoly that oppresses its people. don't be fooled by the so-called human rights guarantees and democratic reforms. in the eight years since the agreement was negotiated, the situation in vietnam has deteriorated. it's not just human rights if someone doesn't have enough. throwing away a strong bargaining position is a mistake for the business itself. vietnam will benefit from the agreement far more than the eu and at such a moment we should want guarantees for our politics and business. the question is: do we really want a europe where the authoritarians of all countries can move as they need to, without having to loosen their regimes? (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – i will answer in english if you don’t mind. we see that the agreement didn’t help to do anything for now, because apparently the negotiations haven’t been led properly with regard to human rights. so what is necessary is actually to follow what we originally approved as the european parliament also, and to push for the reforms and for what we want. as i said, we are now giving a blank cheque on our trade, because they didn’t do anything that we wanted from them and that they promised to us.
madam president, the key issue in the syrian situation is turkey's power position and negotiating position. the eu is weak and corrupt because it is ruled by multinational corporations, and they have significant investments in turkey. the eu is blackmailed and blackmailed. the eu cannot afford to impose really effective trade sanctions on turkey, but it has helped turkey with sanctions against syria. the eu cannot afford to cancel the accession talks with turkey. the eu has abolished pre-accession aid of eur 150 million, but at the same time increased non-refoulement payments by eur 500 million. that's why turkey is doing whatever it wants in syria and will continue to do so until it meets resistance. turkey is militarily occupying northern syria, expelling nearly a million kurds and christians and others, and settling isis veterans there. the eu is also unable to defend its member countries and prevent turkey from stealing gas, in its long-standing occupation of northern cyprus. the eu bears responsibility for the situation in syria, but offers moral stances.
mr. chairman, i think all political talk fades when you look at these numbers. anti-semitism in europe today is on the rise and it's a mega problem. in just 10 years, 60,000 jews left france. the data from the european agency for human rights shows that 38% of jews are considering leaving europe. some of these numbers are terrible. germany doubled to 44% in five years. sweden doubled to 35% in five years. france 44%, belgium, where the ep is based, 42%. by contrast, hungary, which is often on the wallpaper here, is the only country where the number of jews who want to leave has decreased by as much as 10 percent. meaning, what to do? to define anti-semitism, to ban hezbollah and to end anti-israel anti-semitic foreign policy. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. of course i see them as fundamental and important, but anti-semitism, given the history of this continent, given what happened in the 20th century, i see it as a mega problem. it's clear from these numbers that this is a mega problem, that it's related simply to our immigration policy. we can't just cover this up and make the political talk pale in the light of the numbers we have here. it's a survey that our agency, the european agency, asked 16,000 jews, please, nice. this isn't a group of 500 people being interviewed.
for group id. madam president, it is indeed strange that a sort of post-confederation statement about the threat to the rule of law in poland is being discussed again on the ep's floor. a normal person would think that they would evaluate why britain left, that the rhetoric would change. the opposite is true. again, strong words are being spoken about limiting national sovereignty, about how to crack down hard on efforts to promote patriotism, and so on. binding citizens with various directives is another intervention in their lives. now here we have the campaign of the defenders of democracy against poland, which has allowed itself to promote its conception of democracy at home, which is unacceptable to the defenders. only their view is the right one, and therefore the poles are obliged to accept it. i believe personally that no one has the right to interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, because history shows that whenever it happens, it never goes as expected. the question is, are you doing everything you can to make it happen?
madam president, i say to the presidency: don’t you feel it’s groundhog day? some are defending in the council the cohesion funds, the others the agriculture funds, and then you have countries that want less money. but where is the fundamental discussion about modernisation? where is the discussion that we are really preparing our economy for a green deal? where is the discussion on the fundamentals of the rule of law? where is that discussion? i challenge those countries that will have a big mouth about modernisation afterwards. i challenge finland, sweden, denmark, germany, netherlands, austria. if you want modernisation, if you want a new economy, if you want to have rule of law, you cannot exchange that for just a penny or some percentage points. this is about the fundamentals of our future. this should not be about 0.1% more or less. that is what our british friends would call ‘penny wise, pound foolish’.
madam president, i would like to thank you. unlike the commission and many of my colleagues in this parliament who are always calling for more eu money, we believe that the eu must put its mouth on its food. we will not accept an increased eu fee or a draining eu budget. the eu budget must be re-arranged within the existing framework and not 'boosted' by increased own resources. we are not against, for example, climate taxes, of course, but they are needed for the welfare of the member states. other requirements to be imposed on the eu's long-term budget are: all funds must be climate tested, not a single euro to climate-damaging activities, the structural funds must be re-arranged to deliver climate justice, the eu's corrupt and ineffective agricultural policy must be fundamentally overhauled, no funding for fortress europe, erdogan, the border police, and no funding for the european war industry. it is a shame that the new commission wants to militarize eu cooperation. finally, the commission condition the eu budget in relation to the rule of law and democracy. no money for member states that do not respect the fundamental values.
madam president, we are asking for a better, bigger budget and a commission with greater powers. but this implies greater democratic legitimacy. we will only achieve a genuine european budget, in line with our ambitions, if we are able to give the commission direct democratic legitimacy. this multiannual financial framework represents at most 11% of the continental gdp. how can we build a united europe with such a small budget? catalonia is a net contributor to the european budget and we want to continue as such, but without the mediation of spain. for the financial perspective 2021-2027, some priorities are: giving priority to research and innovation, which are the oil of our century; making the allocation of cohesion funds conditional on respect for the rule of law and democracy; combating climate change; combating social and economic inequalities, etc. similarly, when will we have the courage to build a true system of own resources? the carbon tax, the digital tax, the financial transaction tax should be used to feed a european budget. democratic legitimacy, political power and financial capacity are the three sides of a triangle on which the future of the union depends.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the way in which the council is currently dealing with the multiannual financial framework is extremely problematic. a little cohesion, a little agriculture, no ambition for science and research, preferably less erasmus, 1.0 is the maximum, as many programmes as possible, but as much underfunding as possible - that is the motto. every man for himself, just me for me. that's not enough! we must approach the eu in terms of tasks. this means that we must invest more in science and research, we must also get the cohesion countries to invest more in science and research, help them to invest more in science and research. because if we do not invest in this sector, then, quite simply, we will no longer be competitive with china, we will no longer be competitive with the united states, and we will no longer be able to tackle our tasks. we must have a task-oriented approach. if we are going to do things like external border control, we need to have the right funding and the right skills. if they want to pay less, then the council should also say what tasks it wants to eliminate, what agency it no longer wants, what tasks it no longer claims from the european union. but giving more tasks and then less funding - that can't work. wanting to tackle climate change but not getting into science and research at the same time, can't work either. the just transition fund can't solve all of this. i would ask the member states to finally move away from national glasses and to look clearly at the european perspectives and the tasks ahead of us.
madam president, because we combine less and less budget with more and more expectations, we get more and more disappointment and less and less europe. this is where we are, where more europe is needed to bring more efficiency, more cohesion and improve the daily lives of european citizens. but to make more of europe, we need to invest in this europe. but it is clear that the opposite is happening. the european green deal and the just transition mechanism, which we expect so much of, are being scuttled from the start, and with them the cohesion policy and the future common agricultural policy, which we will have to reform in the face of global warming. yes, because global warming is here, it's real, and the green deal must be a real opportunity to fundamentally change the economic model. in this context, it is crucial to link the own resources agenda with the green deal agenda. europe must give itself the means to reform itself, but i see that, despite the support of the commission in this fight, the council is not up to the task of the general interest, the general interest often being subordinated to particular interests. i therefore call on the presidency of the council to do so. it is no longer the time for selfishness, for summing up particular interests, for cosmetic retouching or for small measures which only solve small problems of conscience. the time has come for a real european ambition. there are concrete actions to raise the bar and give ourselves the means. and these means are first of all to obtain a financial framework and a budget that is commensurate with this ambition. ladies and gentlemen of the council, stop playing small arms! at this level of power and in view of the legitimate expectations of european citizens and the urgency of the situation, this is no longer acceptable - it is even today irresponsible.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial framework for the european union is a very important one. and that, please, has to change. 17 eu countries are part of the group that advocates keeping cohesion and agriculture policy funding at the current level. we cannot accept that the less developed countries should receive less funding in the next period than they have received so far. it is also unacceptable that investment in cohesion, infrastructure and agriculture is declining while central programmes are being increased, and quite substantially. it is important that member states are able to decide to a large extent themselves what they spend the money on. the european commission must listen more to the needs of the member states and should set their priorities as little as possible. 17 eu countries want cohesion, investment, including investment in basic infrastructure. this, please, must not be overlooked.
madam president, the european parliament's economic and monetary affairs committee is dissatisfied with the low economic growth in the euro area, at only 1.1%. so i would expect a series of measures to ensure that the eu does not fall so far behind china and the united states in growth. but what does the eu propose? to devote 40% of the budget to a chimerical green deal project that will not help the environment and will harm the economy. by switching to electric mobility and renewable energy sources, the european commission is going to disrupt energy and transport at the same time, and thus reduce europe's competitiveness. then let him express satisfaction at stagnation or rather decline. the attempt to support directly from brussels uncalled pressure groups, called non-profit organisations, shows a democratic attitude. instead of supporting the population, migration should be encouraged. agricultural and rural expenditure is to be reduced. in 2004, after the accession of the new member states, it promised to balance european agricultural subsidies by 2013, but this has not yet happened. how long before such a policy evokes the righteous indignation of the citizens?
madam president, i am a member of the european parliament from the czech republic, a country that is one of the so-called friends of cohesion. nevertheless, i am much more familiar with the original proposal from the european commission than with the version from the european parliament. the reason is simple: the higher expenditure that the european parliament is counting on means higher revenue. but net contributors are not willing to increase their contributions to the common budget, and one of those strong countries, britain, left last week. the efforts to create additional own resources for the european union will therefore be intensified, and we hear this in today's debate, and i think it is wrong. the european union is not a state, it is an international organisation created by individual states, which should act on the instructions of those states. you can't circumvent the will of these states by taxing their citizens directly. we will not increase the competitiveness of the european union by further redistribution, we will increase it by supporting innovation and better infrastructure. the final version should therefore be similar to the original version of the commission.
madam chairman, i voted for it. the hysteria i'm hearing across the street is making me feel like i voted right. but i admit it was not an easy consideration, because i'm a man who remembers from the communist days that it makes sense to play the occasional game with a regime that locks people up, hard. and vietnam is playing hardball with the people back home. i am convinced that free trade can help, but at the same time i consider it important to implement what is contained in the accompanying resolution, and in this connection i would like to ask the european commission to raise the issue of human rights in its negotiations with vietnam and to finally submit to us the impact assessment, which unfortunately we have not received as a basis for these negotiations.
madam president, i supported the eu-vietnam free trade and investment protection agreement. at a time when a number of countries are imposing tariffs and declaring trade wars, i think it's a great moment in international trade policy. as a person who grew up in communist czechoslovakia, i naturally gave much thought to the human rights issue in vietnam. i am following the situation there and i know that there are human rights violations, that there are political prisoners there, but i am convinced that it is precisely with this treaty that the eu is getting the tool to push for improvements in the human rights situation or the environment. we've never had a tool like this before. i believe that in addition to improving trade between us, there will be improvement in this area.
madam chairman, female circumcision is one of the most horrific acts that can be included in violence against women. in addition to physical pain, it's also associated with long-term psychological and, of course, health problems. shockingly, in the 21st century, the practice is still practiced in dozens of countries worldwide, with tens to hundreds of thousands of women being subjected to it each year. even in the eu, there are over 600 000 women who have undergone fgm and almost 200 000 young girls and women are at risk from the procedure. if we want to protect women and fight for gender equality, taking steps to end this cruel practice will help women far more than media-imposed quotas on the number of women in politics and in business. of course i supported this resolution.
madam president, commissioner, thank you very much for your commitment to the strategy for gender equality. i feel that it's a difficult portfolio, perhaps more difficult than the preparation of the multiannual financial framework. to enforce this strategy, we will need to unblock the ratification of the istanbul convention. unfortunately, slovakia announced yesterday that it wants to withdraw its signature from this ratification and that it wants to withdraw. i disagree with that, and we shouldn't just sit back and watch. next, we need to unblock the anti-discrimination directive. what i would like to point out is that we should make a strong appeal in the strategy to a good school system, to education from the youngest children to the university. i think this is very important, because without changing the education system and the approach of educators to explain that equality is actually very beneficial for economic growth, for the economy, we have nothing else.
i have received two motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 132(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 13 february 2020. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the report by roberta metsola, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard and repealing council joint action no 98/700/jha, regulation (eu) no 1052/2013 of the european parliament and of the council and regulation (eu) no 2016/1624 of the european parliament and of the council (com(2018)0631 – c8-0150/2019 – 2018/0330b(cod)) (a9—0022/2019). i remind you that it is possible to request catch-the-eye and blue cards using both the standard registration and the electronic system. instructions are available at the entrance of the hemicycle. please also be reminded that blue-card questions can be raised only after the speeches on behalf of political groups.
mr. chairman, i would like to begin by congratulating mrs. metzella on her excellent work, and to greet mrs. dalí. the commission has also received information from the member states and the european union on the implementation of the fado system. in 2018, croatian border police detected 236 forged documents and 60 foreign documents, an increase of almost 40% compared to the previous year. the methods of producing forged documents are becoming more sophisticated, and high-quality information needs to be exchanged in order to detect them. the increased pressure of irregular migration at the external borders of the european union requires a coordinated and reinforced action of all forces, with the use of modern technical equipment and the exchange of data collected by member states in a manner that respects human rights. particular emphasis should be placed on cooperation between member states. finally, i would like to stress that one of the priorities of the croatian presidency is a europe that protects, the key word being security. let's not let it be traded.
mr president, commissioner, this is certainly a very important subject and it is good that we have a report on the fado system here. who is forging their papers and who is impersonating? not a person who has good intentions, okay? so from the very beginning, people who forge documents come with the intention of doing something bad, in a particular state, we can think of crime, terrorism. obviously the system needs to be improved and, as was said here, the more sophisticated the means by which documents can be falsified, the more we need to come up with measures, with a system to counter these falsifications. and yes, the thousands of people who have crossed the border with forged documents worries us. of course, my country is not yet in schengen, i hope it is, but we are talking about the entire european union market, not just the schengen area, and i believe that the security of citizens, of all european citizens, no matter in which country they live, must be ensured by us through protection means frontex, the fado system or other means by which we can detect these fakes and ensure the security of citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank ms metsola for her work and thank all the honourable members for this debate. as i mentioned, the false and authentic documents online (fado) system will help maintain a high level of security within the union and strengthen controls at our external borders. the final political agreement on the commission proposal provides significant improvements to the current functioning of the system and contributes to the fight against document and identity fraud. it also provides, as mentioned by several honourable members, robust data protection and fundamental rights safeguards. in the light of our debate, i look forward to a positive vote on the final compromise.
the rapporteur. i have followed the speeches carefully and i am grateful for the support, i would say unanimous in this house, for this law. i think it is important to reiterate what we are talking about here. fado is a system that was created to support the members of the european union in the exchange of genuine, forged or even falsified documents without delay. the use of forged documents in the schengen area has increased, as my colleagues have said, considerably over the years, and especially in recent years and it is therefore essential that we take action. the way in which they are counterfeited is changing and we therefore need to be one step ahead of those with malicious intentions. this will enable us to better protect the external borders of the european union, to safeguard the free movement of persons, which is a fundamental principle of ours, and to facilitate the movement of people across borders who are in possession of a valid identity, travel or residence document. this helps the authorities to identify documents that are forged with the tools they need and have been asking for in order to simply do their job and all this has the positive effect of protecting the rights of people whose identity is unfortunately being used by criminal circles, of course without them knowing that their identity is being abused. i would also like to respond to a particular intervention by my colleagues, from the green party; we have managed to strike the balance between the protection of fundamental rights and security. what we have done and discussed is not the beginning and the end, when it comes to fighting crime, but what we are doing are essential elements when combined with other measures. i, mr president, close this debate by calling for us to join this house tomorrow in supporting and voting in favour of this law.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 13 february 2020. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – i will support the parliament’s legislative resolution on the false and authentic documents online system (fado) because it is outdated and needs to be adjusted for the new tfeu institutional environment. the regulation that is to be adopted repeals the joint action formerly establishing the fado, and sets up new legal basis for the updated fado system with information on authentic documents issued by the eu, the member states and also third parties, as well information on the false versions of such documents. i believe this will improve our fight against document and identity fraud by working together and sharing information between the relevant national authorities and with other actors as well as with the general public.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the state of play of the eu’s fight against money laundering, in light of the luanda leaks (2020/2562(rsp)). i remind you that it is possible to request catch-the-eye and blue cards using both the standard registration and the electronic system. instructions are available at the entrance of the hemicycle. please be reminded that blue-card questions can be raised only after the speeches on behalf of the political groups.
mr president, as a human being, i am deeply sorry for the plight of thousands of migrants at the eu's external border. as a member of this institution, however, i am troubled by the approach of the responsible authorities to the issue of migration, which has resulted in these sad conditions. the vast majority of migrants come from countries where there is no war. it is clear that they come to europe only with the vision of an easy life offered to them in the form of generous social benefits. don't we have our own problems with the social situation of some of our citizens and pensioners? what right do immigrants have to be preferred over the people who work and pay taxes here? what right do they have to be preferred over pensioners who've worked and paid taxes all their lives and whose pension doesn't equal the benefits of those you prefer? if you finally realize that you are causing the whole problem with your ill-considered social policy, and change it, then you will stop harming migrants and european citizens.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, safe internet for children is vital indeed. children should feel safe to go online, they should remain curious to discover, to learn, to innovate. however, having looked at the web page of the safer internet day, i discovered with horror that, during the safer internet day, discussions were focused on how artificial intelligence can be used to identify and remove child sexual abuse material. we, as legislators, are just about to analyse and address the opportunities and the pitfalls of these technologies. therefore, it seems to be premature indeed to consider ai a silver bullet to solve all problems. and i am glad that education was mentioned by the commission representative because i believe that future initiatives from the commission related to safer internet should focus on education and development of technical skills of kids, which should not mean promoting the use of one specific company’s tools but encouraging the use of interoperable solutions and free and open—source software.
the commission is also proposing to set up a database on the european farmers, primary producers, foodstuffs and retail chains. the costs are borne by the eu member states, the eu as such, but also by farmers, who pass the costs on to prices and become less competitive themselves. a huge tunnel is being dug by the directorate general for international trade. this is driven by the increasing duty-free imports from third countries. there is no control and there never will be. no one is forcing these countries to comply with european rules. their organs won't require them. for example, livestock is processed on ships with no controls at all. european farmers are faced with new and new obligations, and more and more food is being released onto the market from non-eu producers who do not have to pay such costs. these are the legitimate claims of farmers, but also of consumers, including the prices they have to pay. it is unacceptable to import food from countries where the same conditions as those which must be applied in the eu cannot be guaranteed.
i have to say, madam president, i'm told we're discussing the farm-to-fork strategy today. and you can feel a certain nervousness in this room, because we're actually talking about something else entirely: in fact, we are talking about - and all the way through, it is exactly these conversations - whether the old reform proposal that is being put forward is even a green deal. that's the only question. and that's why there's such nervousness among those who always think they're supposed to speak for all farmers, because they have to recognize and realize that the old proposal is not compatible with the new idea of a green deal. and i can feel that nervousness, i can even understand it in part. but i ask you, do not take it any more to heart that you speak for all farmers. you speak for a section of the farmers. there are also many farmers who are already looking for new ways of doing things. and i'm here to support those farmers.
madam president, commissioner, we have high hopes for you. farmers and food workers have been unfairly dehonested and blamed lately. a large part of society forgets that they still produce the highest quality, safest food in the world, at affordable prices. of course, agriculture is also one of the most regulated areas. we're constantly raising the bar, liberalizing trade, creating new rules and cutting subsidies. agriculture is the first to feel the effects of climate change. that's why agriculture has to be part of the solution. the new green deal and the farm to fork, unfortunately, don't count farmers yet. it's a primitive proposal to raise the price of inputs, raise the price of food, and then just regulate more and more. we're approaching the limit of endurance. it's supposed to be a farm-to-fork strategy. so why are most of the proposals targeted at farmers and we're afraid to tackle supermarkets and unfair subsidies?
mr president, i’d like to follow up on the topic of empowering consumers to take informed decisions, because i believe that consumer protection has always been one of the top priorities of the european parliament. unfortunately, the trust of customers was shaken by the unwillingness to ban dual quality of products. luckily, we have a chance now to fix some of these issues within the farm to fork strategy. a recent study done by the joint research centre showed that information about product quality is very important to european citizens. we need to strengthen the right for information to ease consumer’s decisions. the key is the labelling on the front of packs informing, for example, about the origin of the product. my second point is about health aspects. tests prove that similar products are sold with different sweeteners or different amount of fat in some member states. lower healthiness of products should not be accepted, and it is a topic that the commission should address in this strategy.
the renew europe group has notified the president of the following decisions relating to changes to appointments: - katalin cseh replaces nicola danti in the committee on foreign affairs- nicola danti replaces katalin cseh in the committee on industry, research and energy these decisions shall take effect on the date of this announcement. ***
we took note. i will inform the services about that. just an additional point for information on that: you can still set up your own filtering rules if you wish. (applause)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
according to the rules of procedure, the result of the vote does not change. did your machine work in other votes or was this the only one when it didn’t work?
those are the rules of procedure. if your machine doesn’t work, try to find another seat.
what was on the screen, we checked on the second part if i remember correctly. ok, we continue. that concludes the vote.
madam president, the coronavirus outbreak does not respect the borders in a free moving europe, and what we have now seen in italy we could easily see here in brussels in two to three weeks. so there is no doubt that the eu can – and must – provide the added value to tackle this crisis in terms of a conditional and coordinated response in the area of temporarily limiting the free movement of people inside the eu as well as from the outside, or in the area of mobilising public and private financing and resources, but we not done so much on this. for those who are expecting to have more europe, there are two serious challenges in building trust from below, in projecting political power from above, and in proper management of the situation. here is just one example. the czech national security council, at minister level, is dealing with this every morning, while the commission is just meeting once a week. so wake up, wake up. it’s a test.
in writing. i consider the investment initiative, which mobilises the available cash reserves in the european structural and investment funds of eur 37 billion, to be essential. while not entirely new money, this measure will allow unused and other eu funds to be used more quickly to deal with this crisis. for the czech republic, this means something over czk 30 billion, which, as already demonstrated by the demand from e.g. small and medium-sized enterprises, will be very useful. i consider the possibility of using these funds for short-term financial assistance to these enterprises to be one of the most important. i will support the extension of the eu solidarity fund to public health crises, worth billions of euros, to allow member states to apply for financial assistance in relation to the coronavirus epidemic. and i'm also going to support suspending the 80/20 rule in air travel. the absurd situation of carriers being motivated to operate empty flights should be suspended until the situation stabilises. however, i would remind you that we must not forget the impact on airport operators. it is clear that the economies of the member states of the european union will need support that is much more massive.
in writing. i regret to say that most eu countries have underestimated the coronavirus and will now reap the bitter fruits. but the lockdown can't last for months. not only would the economy collapse, but i fear the eu, including schengen, would collapse as well. the key to success is tti: testing, tracing, isolation. for successful cases, we have to go beyond the eu. the exception is the italian city of vò, which was immediately sealed off and all residents tested. with isolation and repeated testing of all residents, the city has been able to beat the disease. good ideas can also be drawn from taiwan, south korea, or israel. taiwan's success has been achieved through a combination of big data, transparency and great management. by merging a number of digital databases from the time of the sars outbreak, taiwan now has the ability to check the travel history of each citizen for the past two weeks (then the records are destroyed), trace contacts of those infected, and monitor the quarantine of at-risk groups. the regulations are strict, but transparent. it was the routing, along with frequent testing of the population, that was the key to success in east asian countries. i also recommend that you consider the method of israeli scientists, which allows you to relieve the overload of laboratories and at the same time mass testing the population. they're proposing to test people in groups of 32 to 64 patients, all samples at once. only when a positive sample is present in the group will individual testing of all group members be initiated.
mr president, the european economy is in a tremendous state of distress, as if a tsunami warning had sounded everywhere at once. with economies at a standstill, we know that we are only seeing the first signs of a giant wave, which will devastate businesses, jobs, families and the european project itself, unless there is an immediate, strong and united response at european level. the european parliament is giving an important sign of unity and responsibility by presenting a joint resolution today and by sending a clear message to the commission and the council and, above all, to the minority of governments which have blocked a more solidary response. we need a major plan for economic recovery that has the necessary financial means. we therefore call for an urgent political agreement on a multiannual financial framework, not of cuts but of reinforced and more own resources. we also strongly support the creation of recovery bonds, i.e. the issuing of debt securities by the european commission itself, guaranteed by the european budget, to finance investment and prevent a new sovereign debt crisis. today, more than ever, this parliament elected by the people is the voice of the people who do not accept a europe blocked by national selfishness. it is time to listen to this parliament, it is time to listen to the people and decide to think about the people.
mr president, i would like to thank mr šefčovič for being here with us. in the beginning, let me express my strong respect for everyone who contributes to tackling this difficult situation. in the first part of my contribution, i would like to support the second coronavirus response package prepared by the commission. it was prepared quickly and in line with the rigid parliament committee recommendations, and as a result, it brings measures addressing the real needs of the citizens. thank you for this excellent cooperation. in the second part, i would like to draw your attention to two great occasions related to covid. parts of the industry and energy sector have gone into serious existential risk. facing the need to decrease the carbon footprint and at the same time to absorb the negative effects of the covid crisis is a deadly mixture. imagine, for example, regions whose economy is dependent on coal and tourism. the industrial and energy sector needs to survive and recover first, in order to be robust enough to succeed in the climate transition. therefore, i most strongly welcome you, and encourage you to put forward a short-term suspension of the emissions trading system, for example between the years 2020-2022. with this step you would save employment and prevent an increase of energy poverty inside the eu; you would stabilise businesses and the regions most challenged with the climate transition; you would get the situation under control and you would deserve respect for it. also, let me draw your attention to the european spas – a unique sector combining medicine and tourism. this sector has enormous potential to improve public health, not only in general, but also specifically after the covid disease. the spa sector has also been in serious difficulties and deserves strong and fast support. any commission initiative here will be most welcome.
in writing. there can be no doubt that europe is in the midst of the greatest post-war crisis. but the resolution presented is merely ideological and does not reflect the real development of the situation. the markedly different approaches of member states to the pandemic revealed that decision-making at a lower, people-understood level provides the opportunity to respond more flexibly and quickly. and national borders became important because some states immediately began lockdowns, while others long held to the theory of herd immunity. it is therefore inappropriate to demand a further transfer of competences and financial resources to the union institutions, or to criticise member states for acting on their own and in the interest of their citizens and not waiting for instructions from the centre when taking the necessary measures and providing medical equipment. the multiannual financial framework deserves a major overhaul to meet the eu's post-pandemic needs, but the aim should not be to endlessly increase costs just to meet pre-crisis carbon neutrality ambitions. the green deal is a program of costly restructuring of the economy and the abandonment of entire industries. and in a time of global economic collapse, it will lead to further decline of already decimated national economies and further strengthening of china's global position. we will support joint efforts but limit the eu's ambition to be the master of everything.
in writing. i cannot support the joint resolution on the fight against the coronavirus. instead of taking the necessary steps to help stop the spread of the virus and help the economy, this resolution was misused to call for further devolution of powers from the nation states to the eu level. they were nation states fighting the coronavirus. successful in many cases, unsuccessful in many. the problem of these failing countries cannot be solved by shifting responsibility to the eu level. let us stop offering the eu's strengthening as the one miracle cure for every crisis. this is not the way. paradoxically, some statements by european commission officials have further discouraged the citizens of the czech republic from joining the eu. and that's not in our best interest.
mr. chairman, the global pandemic is rapidly turning into an economic crisis that we must respond to with force, time is running out. in europe we are discussing a new budget and that should be our main response. we need to build on programmes that we know work, such as a robust cohesion policy. and we should also focus on investment, and in that respect i welcome the commission's proposal to further strengthen investment instruments. but let us also focus on aid that will go directly to citizens and businesses, especially smes or tourism entrepreneurs who are worried about their future. let's promote employment, think about the regions, and also focus on innovation and digital technologies. let us seize and strengthen the opportunities offered by the single internal market. the agreement on the european union budget and other support for economic recovery must come as soon as possible. let's not miss this chance!
the image of the mff has always divided not only parliament but also national governments in the council. the coronavirus crisis has at least set a common goal in this regard, sweeping away many of the previous challenges and posing new, bigger and more serious ones. the effects of the shutdown are already being felt in many sectors of the economy and could be worse, economists say. it all depends on how quickly we can restore europe's economy. it is essential to make the recovery fund a top priority and to restore confidence in the european project, which has been seriously damaged in some member states during the crisis. the eu must be there for member states as a willing helper in rebooting their economies, loosening their hands in regulatory compliance and allowing them to focus on the most damaged sectors. on the other hand, to avoid budgetary irresponsibility, pre-crisis ambitions must be replaced by priority action to address the immediate pressing and urgent problems. in the green deal, for example, it is the fight against catastrophic drought, not the race to reduce co2, for which the eu will now have no partners in the world. i believe we can put europe back on its feet and with that, we can have the luxury of different priorities.
in writing. from a hungarian point of view, it is a success that the new recovery facility is not proposed to be set up at the expense of regional development programmes and the common agricultural policy. however, the previous criticisms of the mff by two thirds of member states, including hungary, were also justified in the light of the new proposal, which was almost unchanged from the previous proposals. hungary has achieved remarkable economic success in recent years and is also at the forefront of the management of the epidemic. it would be unjustified not to benefit from the recovery resources because we have managed the epidemic successfully and have reduced our public debt over the years through a disciplined fiscal policy. as in the case of cohesion policy, it is important for the recovery facility that the allocation of resources also takes into account differences in economic development between member states and the state of the economic sectors affected by the crisis. we cannot have poorer member states financing richer ones. the €750 billion in the recovery facility will be raised by the european commission through the use of long-term loans. the loan will be repaid by the member states over 30 years in proportion to their contributions to the eu's general budget. hungary has to repay eur 7.5 billion of the 750 billion debt at a rate of 1%. in the face of this debt, it is unacceptable that our country should receive a non-repayable aid of only €8.1 billion, which is barely more than the amount of this debt.
in writing. we need to respond to the economic crisis caused by the global covid-19 pandemic with a firm but responsible response. i welcome the fact that the european commission has finally put forward its proposal, because funds need to be mobilised quickly and properly to restart the european economy. however, i must stress that neither the revised multiannual financial framework nor the new economic recovery plan should become a substitute for a recovery of national budgets, which are suffering from long-term problems not primarily related to the current crisis. budgetary responsibility states should not be sanctioned. similarly, long-term unemployment should not be the main parameter for how to distribute money. we must rely on a cohesion policy that we know works. we should focus on investing in sectors and regions where aid will go directly to the citizens and businesses most affected, such as smes in tourism and related sectors. we also know that the automotive or transport sectors are among the most affected. let us support them in a way that is consistent with the policies and direction of the european union, so as to try to make the current economic crisis an opportunity for further development in all respects. think of regions at risk of socioeconomic transition. we will help the traditional sectors, but we will also focus on innovation and digital technologies.
in writing. i'm sure you'll agree that what we've witnessed in europe over the past three months has been extraordinary. and exceptional situations call for exceptional means. but, as we have seen many times in europe, too often the exceptions become the rules and paper bears all. it is therefore good to state at the outset what our red lines are: no permanent debt mutualization, no bulging of the european budget and no taxes at the european level. the aid is one-off and limited, and no one should be punished for managing responsibly and realistically in the long term, for example in relation to joining the euro area. it should also be borne in mind that there is a much higher risk of corruption than in the case of cohesion funds: rapid financial assistance after the crisis will automatically lead to a reduction in some of the control mechanisms in the reallocation of money. in the case of cohesion funds, they sometimes ended up in various shady businesses, such as the czech prime minister or even the italian mafia, requiring much more time and bureaucracy. it's important not to sacrifice controls and to make sure that money doesn't enrich well-known politicians or companies that have been losing money for most of their existence. it's important not to sacrifice thrift and moderation to megalomania. it's important not to sacrifice common sense.
in writing. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. although it is facing a number of different challenges, it also has the potential to create or seize new opportunities. the efforts of all member states to restore tourism together are now needed. safety, public health and expert advice should be key factors. citizens should also be adequately informed of the conditions and hygiene measures that have been put in place and are in force in each destination.
in writing. the state of israel enjoys a disproportionate interest in this parliament; not as the most democratic country in the middle east, with which we share a great deal of security interests and civic values; not as a country that achieves exceptional results in almost every area of human life and from which there is much to learn; no, israel is most often encountered as a subject of criticism; the european union has a critical role to play in the fight against terrorism. it's not just this parliament, the un's resolutions deal with israel more than all the other countries in the world combined. are they all better? or is it only israel that is held to a much stricter standard? there can be no doubt that a friendship includes criticism; but it is not always appropriate to criticize a friend whose situation is not even remotely similar to ours. the eu should certainly communicate its views and perhaps its doubts to israel; however, there are more subtle diplomatic channels than threatening resolutions, as the representatives of austria and hungary have repeatedly pointed out. trump's plan is not self-saving, but it represents one of the possible paths out of the dead end that the palestinian authority itself has repeatedly chosen in 1947, 1967, 1978, 2000, 2001, 2005, 2007, 2012 and 2015. the eu's tendency, unfortunately, is to see all the israeli splinters and no palestinian logs.
we will now continue with the debate on the council and commission statements on the eu’s public health strategy post—covid—19 (2020/2691(rsp)).
i will now move to the second voting session. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda adopted today at the opening of the sitting. the voting session will be open from 20.30 until 21.45. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting session. all votes will be held by roll call and members will be able to verify their votes and the results of votes by consulting the documents which will be published on the plenary website. i declare the second voting session open. you have until 21.45 to vote. the results of the second voting session will be announced tomorrow at 9.00.
we will now continue with the debate on the council and commission statements on the eu’s public health strategy post—covid—19 (2020/2691(rsp)).
the debate is closed. i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 132(2). the vote on the amendments will take place on thursday, 9 july 2020 and the final vote on friday, 10 july 2020. written statements (rule 171)
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, today in belarus, we are witnessing a systematic and continuous imitation of election procedures created for a solemn purpose: to extend the three-decade-long authoritarian regime. grave election violations were recorded by the osce’s office for democratic institutions and human rights (odihr), and the same pattern is being applied in the ongoing presidential elections. however, the regime failed to adequately assess the mood of the belarusian people. public dissatisfaction with government policies has exceeded people’s patience, and the appearance of new presidential hopefuls has ignited hope of change. the belarusian regime is stuck in the past. in order to preserve power, it continues along the path of repression, intimidation, prosecution and mass arrests. peaceful protesters and passers-by are beaten and kidnapped by the kgb, and also bullied and threatened by the state media. the main opposition contenders, viktar babaryka and syarhei tsikhanouski, remain imprisoned. the belarusian regime has gone back to the time of prisoners of conscience. three years after his release, former prisoner of conscience, nikolai statkevich, is back in jail. another opposition leader, pavel sevyarynets, just had his sentence extended. in order to prevail, the belarusian regime is ready to use any means, even a rush to launch the astravyets nuclear power plant, which does not comply with international nuclear safety standards. the project is the most western-located (just 20 kilometres away from the eu external border) nuclear installation funded and developed by russia. it is another trojan horse for european safety and energy security. i call on the eu institutions to elaborate a comprehensive strategy for belarus. it has to be based on a european perspective, respect for the principle of sovereignty, democratic governance, free and fair elections, a pluralistic society, and international standards of nuclear safety. the european union has to remain open and supportive to the belarusian people. in no way can our support for belarus to overcome covid-19 be associated with support of the belarusian regime. finally, the european union must learn a lesson from the early removal of sanctions in 2016 and keep the sanctions option open and under constant surveillance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the impression was that he was mr lukashenko's spokesman. please note that after 26 years, the people of belarus are really fed up - to put it in german - with this regime and that they want a change and that it is not us who are demanding it, but the people there. it is important that the osce election observation mission, the bdimr, be invited. we should insist, mr high representative, and we must insist, that the political prisoners be released and that all candidates be admitted. there is a broad consensus, except for the left, and it is good that we have this broad consensus in this house. it is also important that the election campaign can take place freely. i hear there are already local ordinances banning the campaign from the city center. this is also a tactic of the regime. we should not allow them, we must denounce them, and let us really let our words in belarus ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. we have a very worrying situation in belarus which will worsen until the election day on 9 august. we see arrests, we see arbitrariness, we see opposition members being locked up, we see civil society activists being locked up, peaceful demonstrations being banned. what can we do as the eu? we need a strong joint response, a strong joint response from the european commission and the german presidency. the influence of berlin must be taken into account. what do we need beyond the election? we need as much partnership, as much personal contact as possible, especially with the people who are under pressure there now. so dialogue on our values, on the basis of our european foundations.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, i will speak in my own language, spanish, so that i can express myself more sincerely and more fluently. i think that putting together three debates on such important issues distorts the debate a bit, because one distracts from the other. the report on human rights and democracy in the world alone would require a monograph debate, because the importance of this report is enormous, although it is of course not a philosophical stone that solves problems by simply reading it. but this report is more important than ever, and it is also important that we are aware that, in addition to explaining what is happening - and many have said this - we must act on it. and that is why we have adopted a new action plan covering the period of the next four years, to try to make our activity not only a narrator, explaining what is happening, but a corrector, trying to influence events. we have a special envoy for human rights, who will play a very important role in the implementation of this plan. i understand all the limitations of this report and i am sorry that some of the honourable members have diverted the debate from the objective of the report to what is happening inside the european union, which was not the subject of this report or this debate. some specific references have been made, for example, to our participation in the creation of a legally binding instrument at the level of the united nations in defence of human rights. unfortunately, we do not have a mandate from the council to participate in the preparation of this instrument. we consider it absolutely necessary and we participate in the consultations in an informal way, as was the case recently in ecuador in may, and we will attend the next one in october. we continue to advocate the need for this instrument, but unfortunately we do not have a mandate from the council to participate in these negotiations. we have decided to renew the mandate of the special envoy for the defence of religious freedom, who will work closely with our special envoy for human rights, mr gilmore, and this is certainly one of our priorities in the defence of human rights: religious freedom, which is under threat in many parts of the world and which in some cases affects european citizens and, in any case, affects many who profess the christian religion. as regards the issue of visas for human rights defenders, which has been raised as a matter of absolute relevance, all i can say is that visas are not issued by the european union, they are issued by the member states; that our delegations in the territory are directly involved in trying to get them issued. yes, yes, visas are not issued by the european union, visas are issued by the member states, if they want to issue them. and what we do from our delegations is to put the embassies of the member states in constant contact with human rights defenders who are in situations of risk, to facilitate the provision of visas by the member states. i will investigate the response you say you have received from the commission to see in what terms it was expressed and to what extent it is consistent with our willingness to support human rights defenders in whatever way we can. mr president, i would like to be able to speak on all the issues raised in this report. i cannot do that, of course, and i will move on to the next subject which is the subject of our debate today, not without pointing out, not without making it quite clear that the issue of defending human rights and democracy in the world is a subject of a scope and depth that are practically unfathomable. because we are seeing a regression in respect for human rights and democratic practices. we are witnessing a revival of authoritarianism or new autocrats in many parts of the world, sometimes in the guise of democracy, formally adopting democratic ways and procedures, but which, in essence, are not democratic. and so i think it is essential that we continue to do what we are doing and do more with the support and help of members of parliament. and that is why i think this report deserves a monograph. on the situation with turkey, ladies and gentlemen, i understand the reasons which many of you have put forward. but today a somewhat bellicose dimension has been over this chamber. at some point i almost thought i saw pope pius v reappear, calling for the holy alliance against turkey and mobilizing the fleets of christendom to confront the ottoman invasion. i have no vocation of chamberlain or daladier, but neither of don john of austria. if you're looking for a john of austria, don't look at me, because that belongs to another era of history. we're not looking for confrontation, we're trying to avoid it. and that is why i have spoken on several occasions - most recently in ankara, in turkey itself - in terms that are both firm in defending the territorial integrity and the rights of countries affected by activities, which we consider illegal, in the field of hydrocarbon exploration by turkey, but at the same time pointing out that we are not going to change the geography and that we need to have a constructive relationship with turkey. and that means avoiding an escalation of tension, which has unfortunately manifested itself in incidents, including naval incidents, between warships of european and turkish countries - all members of the same military alliance: nato - and which are being investigated within who should do it - which is nato itself - but we must try to prevent them from being reproduced. i would like to stress that this is not a question of seeking a holy alliance against a new ottoman invasion, as many of you seemed to propose, but, in more constructive terms, in the face of a complex reality, as some of the speakers - mrs sanchez amor, mrs zovko - have also said, that we should seek a process which includes negotiation on all the issues which are currently in conflict in the relationship between the european union and some member states and turkey, because we have many problems to solve and we also have the need to do so. and i believe that this can only be achieved through negotiation and dialogue, with firmness, but also by avoiding an escalation of tension, which i do not believe will lead to solving the problem, but to aggravating it. and that is what i am trying to do and what i will continue to try to do, with the support of my colleagues in the foreign affairs council, which next monday will have the issue of turkey on its agenda. and it is precisely to prepare for this debate that i have travelled to greece and cyprus and also to turkey. and on the subject of belarus, mr president, i can only agree with the statements that have been made. we have pointed out, from the beginning of the electoral process, the number of circumstances that we are concerned about and that we reject about repression and violation of human rights by the belarusian authorities, and we have issued serious warning messages they have a list of it, on what we have said, through the formal procedures of taking a position of the european union. but at the same time we also have to maintain contact with civil society and we have to maintain contact with belarus which will enable us to act on reality and improve the situation of the citizens of belarus in relation to the european union. and the two are not incompatible. it is not incompatible to defend and express our commitment to the civil rights of the citizens of belarus, the independence and sovereignty of the country and, at the same time, to participate in contacts with civil society and maintain open communication links. i could say the same about russia. many of you have referred to the question of why we continue to finance turkey with pre-accession funds. well, you should know that, since 2017, the pre-accession funds have been cut, reduced, by 1.3 billion euros, and that the current allocation is only devoted to working in the fields of democracy, the development of the rule of law, human rights and support for civil society, along with an allocation of 160 million for rural development... no, sorry, 18 million for rural development. but there are no pre-accession funds at the moment for the economic sectors, because those funds have been, as i say, sharply reduced as a result of the actions of turkey, which the council has considered to be incompatible with that status of candidate country which you have mentioned so many times. so we have used the instruments we have, but they do not mix everything. do not mix the pre-accession funds with the funds we have set aside to support the exiles - i should call them that, the exiles - rather than the syrian migrants in turkey. three and a half million people are certainly a heavy burden on the host country, and we allocate money to help that host country by providing schools, providing health care, providing education, what's wrong with that? how are we gonna stop doing that? we have to keep doing it. it has recently been decided - and parliament is working on it - to allocate an additional 500 million in support of syrian refugees. that is not money for turkey, as some have said. no, that money goes directly to help, through the ngos that work in the area, and through the un agencies, to the desperate situation of the syrian exiles. they cannot criticize that; they cannot say that it is some kind of evil exchange with turkey. it is absolutely essential that we contribute to the continuation of the aid effort to help these people, as we are doing in jordan and lebanon. exactly the same. with belarus, the situation - i share your concern - is and can be even more serious. and it is true that we have limited instruments of action there. i can assure you that we have used all those available to us and that, depending on how events develop, the foreign affairs council will look into the matter and take the action it deems appropriate. but on this third item on the agenda, i do want to express my full agreement with what you have said, in the terms you have said, about the situation in belarus. your honours, i have to ask... thank you very much, mr. president, for your generosity in your time. i would have liked to have had more, but i think it was the summarized response to the many speeches which your honourable members have made on three subjects of the utmost importance.
the joint debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the issue of stability and security in the mediterranean is closely linked to the conflicts in libya and syria, which have a significant impact in terms of uncontrolled migration and terrorism. turkey is playing a leading role in both cases. we strongly condemned the turkish government's military operation in north-east syria and its interference in the internal affairs of libya, where it is violating the un embargo and frustrating efforts towards a political solution. turkey, despite being considered an important trading partner, a nato ally and an eu candidate country in the aegean region, has severely deteriorated relations with greece and has repeatedly shown that it pursues interests that are not in line with the principles, values and sovereign rights of eu states. if there is a european will to find solutions to the instability in the mediterranean, we need to find tools as soon as possible to reverse the negative trend in our relations with the turkish authorities. this is also a fundamental issue for the security of the european territory, which must be protected without any concessions to anyone.
in writing. the annual report on the human rights situation in the world is disappointing once again, as the chapter on national minorities is very incomplete, completely ignoring serious problems such as the deprivation of rights of transcarpathian hungarians. at the same time, the persistent work of some meps has brought the issue of discrimination against religious minorities to the forefront of the human rights report, including the persecution of christians around the world. this gives reason for moderate hope that after so many years of silence, the european institutions are finally taking up the situation of christians, since christianity is currently the most persecuted religion in the world. but unfortunately, we are still far from the eu putting adequate pressure on governments that violate religious freedom on a daily basis. nevertheless, i work with like-minded meps every day to make the eu a strong advocate for the protection of christians in the world. protecting christians and supporting christian communities should be an honourable cause for us.
in writing. it is worthwhile to note that the 2019 human rights report pays special attention to discrimination and persecution of religious minorities. it is also thanks to the work of many of my colleagues in the european parliament over many years that we have come so far. there are, however, a number of differences between the report and the reality. it is a longstanding practice that the eu does not put pressure on governments that violate religious freedom on a daily basis. this eu position is therefore simply taken as consent by the oppressive regimes. in other words, the union's silence has allowed them to continue their violations, including against religious minorities. europe must therefore be firm and consistent. what are we gonna do? eu diplomacy should speak out in defence of the persecuted at every opportunity, both in bilateral relations and in multilateral fora. europe's first non-religious concern is to defend persecuted christians. the persecuted communities, and especially their persecutors, in all parts of the world, simply look to europe as their potential first ally, the center of the christian world, the bearer of the christian heritage. i can assure you that as co-chair of the epp group's inter-religious working group, i will be a partner of the european commission in the fight for religious freedom. but if europe, driven by extreme secularism, keeps silent about religious discrimination, persecution or genocide, which is one of the most serious human rights violations, it becomes complicit in the deaths of millions of victims worldwide.
in writing. – the recent developments in belarus ahead of the august presidential election are increasingly worrying. arbitrary detentions and maltreatment of opposition candidates, civic activists as well as peaceful protesters are totally unacceptable and have no place in europe in the 21st century. nobody should be deprived of their fundamental rights and political freedoms such as freedom of expression and assembly or the right to free and fair elections, including the right to register as an election candidate. the european parliament as well as the european commission have repeatedly voiced their concerns about the deteriorating situation in belarus. the eu expects belarusian authorities to immediately stop arbitrary arrests and restrictions and to uphold their international commitments to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms of its citizens. it’s first and foremost the citizens of belarus who should decide about the future of their country and it’s a good sign that they are ready to participate in the election process. belarusian authorities are now facing an important choice. free, fair and peaceful election will be decisive for the future of belarus as well as for its future dialogue with the eu. in these turbulent times, belarus can’t afford another missed opportunity.
in writing. the declarations made on the floor of the parliament are often that the proceedings against poland and hungary are directed against their governments and their alleged democratic deficits, not against the countries and their citizens. a proposal to punish member states by suspending payments from the eu budget reveals that such a stark separation is rather an illusion and very difficult to implement in practice. this is particularly true of the post-epidemic recovery package, which is increasingly emerging as a political one, reflecting not only the impact of the epidemic but also other particular interests. there is certainly nothing to object to about parliament's control function in protecting taxpayers' money from corruption and enriching politicians and their associates. however, there are reasonable doubts about the assessment of democracy and the rule of law in the countries concerned and their financial sanctions. it is not so long ago that parliament, in a resolution, condemned by a large majority the hungarian measures concerning the coronavirus epidemic, only to have the european commission find them compatible with eu legislation and not even initiate infringement proceedings against hungary. in any case, cohesion and other funds are not a form of reward for good government behaviour.
president. - my country has not been doing very well in europe in recent weeks. captain of the miserable four, you should be proud. the short-sighted self-interest of prime minister rutte should have been different in the case of the labour party. the socialist group is pleased that there is an agreement. we can now face this crisis together, and that is good for europeans, that is good for unity. it shows the unity, strength and added value of europe to the rest of the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. old priorities are not being addressed and new priorities, such as youth unemployment, health, climate and science, have been found to be non-priority after a review. a missed opportunity, precisely because of this corona crisis. and that is not to mention the weak link between eu money and the rule of law. mr president, i would say: we're on our way, but we're just getting started.
mr president, this european council agreement gives us all hope that we will come out of this situation stronger in the end. the eu leaders have indeed done their part and deserve our thanks. i think it's important to mention that all the european institutions should play their part in maintaining public support. as for the agreement itself, let me say, as the coordinator of the regi committee, i'm not entirely in favour of reducing the allocation for the just transition fund and react-eu. on the contrary, i very much welcome the strengthening of the role of cohesion policy. the policies that are sustaining and creating jobs today. in this context, i would also like to thank commissioner elise ferreira, who is responsible for cohesion, for her excellent work. in conclusion, let me stress that the european funds which should be spent on these climate measures should be open to all possible efficient, accessible technologies, including nuclear energy.
in writing. colleagues from other parliamentary groups still do not understand the economic reality of today's eu. covid-19 has hit national economies in an unprecedented way, but meps from the socialists, communists, people's party, greens and renew europe still want to burden european industry with further hard limits on co2 emissions or by unifying direct taxes. at a time when millions of citizens are losing their jobs due to covid-19, meps are calling for gender-balanced spending. all these demands run counter to the economic interests of our citizens and will be reflected in the rise in energy prices and in the price of european products such as cars. the result will be more layoffs and even more unemployment.
the events in belarus have a retrospective feel to them and certainly to some of my colleagues. 30 years ago, we stood up to the beatings, just like the belarusians, to fight for the natural human right to freedom and democracy, against censorship and brutal police violence. last week we heard the story of marie kolesnikova: a baroque flutist jumps out of a police car and tears her passport to prevent her forced removal from the country. a tribute to her heroism and patriotism, which reminded me of my former colleagues from charter 77. she's in prison, and we must demand her immediate release. fifteen years ago, i often went to belarus and talked to young people who were keenly interested in our experience in 1989. belarus has a long way to go. he's in a different geopolitical position that has a significant impact on his future direction. but the demonstrators know that. they understand that they're going to have to have some kind of balanced and friendly relationship with russia in the future. and russia should also understand that any intervention will irreversibly damage them. our job is to support belarus on its way to greater freedom wherever it wants to be. not only by sanctions against representatives of the lukashenka regime and by pressing for elections under international asylum, but also symbolically: political asylum, medical care, scholarships for young people.
mr president, i fully support the protection of children. however, i am terrified that the commission is presenting a derogation from the eprivacy directive – a derogation that not only approves automated filters, but also creates a blanket authorisation to use them for private communication. this is a clear threat to encryption and distraction from more serious issues, such as: first, the lack of national implementation of the child sexual abuse directive – nine whole years have passed since the adoption of this european legislation – second, the financial difficulties of many hotlines, which form the basic infrastructure of handling the analysis and reporting of child abuse material; and, third, the need to increase the capacities of the judicial system and law enforcement to make sure that they have the resources to follow up on investigations. i support the commission’s action on tackling these serious issues, but i urge you: focus on protecting children instead of playing whack—a—mole with criminals online and violating the privacy of innocent people.
the debate is closed. i’d like to inform members that, due to the partial unavailability of interpreters from malta and ireland because of the travel limitations, there will only be passive interpretation from maltese and gaelic to other languages guaranteed from 20.00 to 22.30. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on women in decision making on company boards, including the state of play on the directive on improving the gender balance among non-executive directors of companies listed on stock exchanges and related measures (2020/2808(rsp)). i would like to inform members that for all the debates of this part—session there will be no catch—the—eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on:– the oral question to the council on reinforcing the youth guarantee by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, cindy franssen, brando benifei, monica semedo, elena lizzi, kira marie peter-hansen, elżbieta rafalska and leila chaibi, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000058/2020 - b9-0018/20), and– the oral question to the commission on reinforcing the youth guarantee by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, cindy franssen, brando benifei, monica semedo, elena lizzi, kira marie peter-hansen, elżbieta rafalska and leila chaibi, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000059/2020 - b9-0019/20).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 8 october 2020. written statements (rule 171)
madam president, what we are doing today is moving from rhetorical targets to real legal and binding commitments on climate. that's what the climate law means. in this case, parliament is also demanding that we have a 60% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, with the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. this act is the cornerstone of the european green deal, probably the most relevant project for europe in the next decade, in which there will then be regulations and a huge transformation of our energy sources, our industry, our transport and mobility and our housing. a transformation that also has to be just and social. but today we are also sending a message to the world: that we want, as europeans, to lead the race to the moon in the 21st century. this time we're not going to travel to any planet, we're going to have to save our planet. china has announced its willingness to be climate neutral by the year 2060, and we expect the united states to be back in this race after november. we're not alone. and then all of humanity, because it's humanity that's at stake and today we take a step in that defense.
madam president, we definitely need a climate law, but it must bring all eu regions together. the current proposal is unfortunately dividing the eu again into east and west. one of the key issues is the energy transition. member states with industrial regions can reach ambitious climate goals but not only through switching to renewables. besides renewables, here will also play low carbon technologies, like nuclear, and transition technologies, like fossil gas projects. therefore, i strongly encourage in the upcoming climate law negotiations, and within the negotiations on the various sustainability tools and state aid, to build the conditions for all technologies to reduce emissions. such technological openness will be one of the key success factors in the climate transition and will maintain public support in the most challenged regions.
in writing. the main problem with this report is that it doesn't respect reality. and we could talk about the other dangerous ideas it contains, like suing states, which in the eyes of concerned activists won't do much, but in the light of this fact, it seems to be secondary. we are constantly told to listen to the scientists, but when the european environment agency says that even the 40% target by 2030 is problematic, the proposers respond with the stakhanov number of 60%. even the impact assessment, which we only got after the envi vote, is still at a maximum of 55% by 2030. the commitment to climate neutrality by 2050 concerns not only the eu but also the member states, and does not take into account their different starting situations with the covid-19 pandemic, which has damaged and will damage their economies, nor the conclusions of the european council. in short, some of my colleagues have once again shown that they are mainly concerned with building castles in the air and that no facts or rational analysis will prevent them from doing so. but believe me, the motivation to achieve the unattainable will quickly fade in some member states, and without their will, only this ambitious plan will remain as a testament to the times.
mr president, high representative, dear colleagues, for me as a member of the euronest bureau it is incredibly saddening to witness such acrimony and outspoken hostility between two participating countries. the objective to increase cooperation between the eu and our eastern neighbours, which we are carrying out through the eastern partnership, obliges us to pay full attention to the ongoing conflict and to play a proactive role in its peaceful resolution. i call on you, mr borrell, to start negotiating the conflict resolution with both parties. some may explicitly take sides and support one country or the other, but this house should stick to two simple but fundamental points. firstly, hostilities should cease immediately. above all, it is imperative that armenia and azerbaijan must stop targeting civilians. at least four journalists were severely injured a few days back, while civilian casualties are being reported daily by both sides as a consequence of heavy fighting and bombings of inhabited centres. secondly, neighbouring powers should refrain from fanning the flames of war through military statements and military support of any kind. whoever engages in these acts puts the stability of the region further at risk and hinders any attempt to bring the warring parties to the negotiating table. in this regard, erdoğan’s turkey is displaying very irresponsible behaviour, which must be firmly condemned by all political forces.
madam president, wirecard was a billion euro company bigger than the deutsche bank. the management cooked the books, embezzled of billions of euros, and jan marsalek, the coo, disappeared without a trace. more rules and regulation will not improve the situation. as a former chief risk officer, i can assure you, there is no industry that is more regulated than the financial industry. instead, the german supervisor, the bafin, should wake up and take responsibility. how is it possible for jan marsalek to completely disappear in this age of digital control? what were bafin employees thinking when they bought shares from the company that they’re supposed to supervise? how is it possible that bafin let the wirecard management get away with millions of euros just before bankruptcy was filed? if bafin does not do its job, germany will lose its reputation in the financial world, and investors will lose confidence. the eu will not be able to finance their green dream if the financial world cannot rely on the bafin. this could turn out to be a bigger risk than covid-19.
president, mr dombrovskis, the wirecard affair was exposed by one good journalist, and dan mccrum deserves all the credit for that. but we cannot, of course, leave the oversight of the financial sector to that one journalist. that's got to be good on all levels. and it's failed on every level. consider the outrageous actions of ernst & young, which piled error on error and silenced internal whistleblowers. see the supervisor bafin, where indeed employees traded in wirecard shares, and after the publication went after the journalists and not wirecard. a $20 billion company, a role model for fintech, has gone under. it shouldn't have happened, and it did. after dieselgate, it's now wirecard. no country is immune to fraud. if there's one lesson to be learned, it's that we're going to have to break through the feeling of "we know each other" and holding hands. this is the great advantage of european surveillance: that feeling is broken.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, what i’ve heard today confirms my resolve to act swiftly to address whatever shortcomings in the rules and their application that investigations of the wirecard scandal reveal. this is particularly true when it comes to supervision. the recent review of european supervisory authorities has improved the supervisory convergence powers of these authorities. esma’s fast—track peer review of the enforcement of financial information in germany will be the first review to be conducted according to the new rules. thanks to the more independent and strengthened process, esma can where necessary issue individual recommendations towards national supervisors, following a ‘comply or explain’ mechanism. this mechanism allows a close follow—up on the recommendation and better understanding of the approach of the national supervisor. esma can also submit an opinion to the commission if it considers that further harmonisation of eu rules would be needed. in a single market, the impact of national supervisory failure extends far beyond the borders of the single member state. national as well as european supervisors need to have the right tools, skills and powers to oversee complex value chains and group structures, as well as to investigate possible cases of fraud or abuse, in particular when it comes to publicly—listed companies and auditors’ responsibilities. this is why the commission plans to work towards an enhanced single rulebook for capital markets by assessing the need for further harmonisation of eu rules and monitoring progress towards supervisory convergence. it will take stock of what has been achieved by the end of the next year and propose measures for stronger supervisory coordination or direct supervision by european supervisory authorities where needed. wirecard was also offering payment processing services and other non—regulated technical services. this shows that supervision and oversight of the actors in the payment chains has become increasingly complex, taking into account the emergence of many new business models and group structures. activities performed by unregulated entities can have an impact on many other companies in the system. this is why, as part of the review of the payment services directive, the commission will evaluate any new risks stemming from unregulated activities, especially technical services ancillary to payment or e—money services. we will assess how to best to mitigate those risks and whether some of these activities should be brought under supervision. more broadly, we need to ensure appropriate regulation and supervision of the more complex ecosystem and fragmented value chains that may emerge from the increased involvement of technology companies in the provision of financial services. as regards auditors, the commission will publish a report on the functioning of the eu audit market. separately, the commission also launched an assessment on how current eu audit market rules work. these were planned before wirecard’s collapse, but both reports will highlight issues of relevance in this case – for instance, the performance of all the committees, given the different approaches in the member states. honourable members, thank you again for this debate. we look forward to continue working with you on these critical issues for the confidence of eu investors in financial markets.
the president of the council. thank you very much, madam president. i can only join the commissioner in his thanks. we see this debate as a council presidency and also as an encouragement to our efforts to contribute to learning from our mistakes. thank you for that. i can also understand, mr ferber, that it seems tempting to you to address the problems to one person. i am not sure that these are the right ones. but then, please don't contradict yourself, because i agree with you completely. you said that before we could come up with any decisive proposals for concrete measures, we must first analyse the current situation in detail. the presidency is ready to do just that, and we will also be putting forward proposals to that effect - with your support - by the end of our presidency. so, again, the point is that before we draw any conclusions, we have to analyze carefully -- that's your view, and that's our view. mr giegold, please do not create a conflict where there is none. once again, the wirecard fraud scandal has once again - there have been many scandals - made it clear that we need to deal with the regulation and enforcement of accounting and auditing. this is not just a national obligation, it is of course also a european obligation. if we are talking about an eu watchdog, there will be no one here to oppose this effort. on the contrary, we support it. but it is not appropriate for us to look at this in isolation. i am therefore grateful to mr schirdewan and also to mr eroglu for once again drawing attention to the scandals in the auditors' office. we will of course have to clarify this first and foremost at national level. so, we are relatively close to each other. whatever the new architecture, it will be crucial to ensure an appropriate level of coordination and information exchange between the national authorities on the ground and the european authorities. if we can do that in the next few weeks, we would all be very happy, because again, it's about trust. this confidence has been shaken, and capital markets need a minimum of confidence. i do not think it will help us to be divided or to let ourselves be divided here, but it will help us to find the maximum level of cooperation here. i also agree with the commission that we should wait for esma's report to come out. this can also be an important source of evaluation for our joint efforts. but we agree on our objective of making financial market coordination at european union level more efficient, more sustainable and also more stringent.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the following joint debate is scheduled on financial services: report by ondřej kovařik, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the report on the digitalisation process in the financial sector: the emerging risks of cryptocurrencies regulatory and supervisory challenges for financial services, institutions and markets (2020/2034(inl)) (a9-0161/2020) and report by isabel benjumea benjume, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the further development of the capital markets union: improving access to capital market financing, in particular for smes, and further enabling retail investors (2020/2034(ini)) (a9-0155/2020). i repeat that there will be no 'catch-the-eye' speeches on request and no 'blue card' questions in this debate.
rapporteur. – madam president, digital finance touches the lives of every european citizen without many of us even realising it. during the global pandemic this year, there has been a more urgent need to move our normal activities online. take the example of opening a bank account, transferring money or requesting a loan. many banks had to rapidly adapt to provide these services online when most of europe went into lockdown. the infrastructure behind this depends on a model based on providing security for businesses, investors and customers. this is a key part of what the report on digital finance is about. consider your favourite microbrewery, which is a business operating fully offline, relying on clients coming inside to make purchases. with the pandemic and the fight to sink or swim, many moved online to offer their specialty craft beers via online platforms. from one day to the next, they tapped into e-commerce and could explore new possibilities for funding or reach out to new promising markets. digital finance, and particularly online banking, shopping and payments, can simplify the financial life of our citizens and of our businesses, from small to large. it’s clear that the pandemic has accelerated a trend we had already been seeing in digital finance. this report addresses a number of these trends and suggests appropriate measures to ensure that the eu framework is fit for a digital age in the area of financial services. the report on digital finance is a legislative initiative report, which is a relatively underused tool in parliament, but, in our case, we were already working closely with the commission. i welcome the two concrete frameworks proposed on 24 september by the college on cryptosets, digital operational resilience and other digital finance-related issues. on crypto-assets, the report calls for a framework which is future facing and adaptable to changes that are steadily coming in the near future. the report foresees an open-ended taxonomy to categorise different crypto-assets. the report also calls for a proposal for a legislative framework for stablecoins, whether they be public or private stablecoins, to ensure they meet at least the standards set out in the e-money directive. furthermore, we must ensure that in any legislation there is a stable conversion rate between stablecoin and fiat currencies and the respective stablecoin is reconvertible into fiat currency at par value at any time. for all crypto-assets, the overarching aim is for more transparency, integrity and accountability, and also their full compliance with the existing and future aml framework. on operational resilience, the report asks for a legislative framework that applies consistency and strengthens the ict and cybersecurity in a harmonised manner across the eu. eu businesses are currently very reliant on third countries’ ict providers, particularly cloud services. without access to those providers, the capacity for eu businesses to grow would be diminished. i believe we must work closely with the big tech companies providing these services, ensuring that, when providing services to eu clients, they do apply eu legislation in good faith. finally, the report also calls for a framework on digital onboarding, which would lead to harmonisation across the single market of key aspects of digital finance, such as digital financial identities and data sharing fully in line with data protection provisions. there are other aspects of the report, which include a strong call to improve aml provisions, central bank digital currencies, the issue of supervision and the single eu supervision in different aspects of digital finance and, crucially, the question of financial redress. together with a team of shadows, which i would like to thank here, we are able to present the parliament today with a report that offers a holistic, thorough and sensible approach to questions that the eu will have to answer on digital finances in the coming years. (applause)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. finally, good news for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are being tested. the european commission estimates that small and medium-sized enterprises and countries that are more dependent on small and medium-sized enterprises, such as greece, will be hit hardest by the coronavirus crisis. the second is that the pandemic has lasted longer than we had expected and in terms of the economy the results are worse, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. there is also no substantial support for the european economy in 2020 - except from the european central bank. it's all left to the state budgets. finally, the european recovery fund seems to be lagging behind due to political conflicts and we need its money because we are making it increasingly difficult for smes, such as the green transition, while at the same time limiting funding to meet the new objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i very much welcome the two comprehensive catalogues of demands that we have today, with over 140 concrete guidelines for action to further develop the capital markets union and digital finance. these measures are right, necessary and important. the commission has already proposed a new approach to the problem of the capital markets union. we do not want to americanize the financing possibilities. we want the european capital market to work better. the key tasks are clear: to finance the real economy, to free small and medium-sized enterprises from a possible credit crunch, and to promote entrepreneurship and stimulate investment. the capital markets union is a necessary complement to the european credit market, brings an end to the national stain carpet, creates more financing opportunities for citizens, more potential for growth and employment and more power to tackle climate change and digitalisation. mr giegold has already raised the issue that we must of course also defend ourselves against the crypto-assets from the usa and china and do everything that multinational companies like facebook cannot operate in the free space with their libra currency. we need a digital euro from the ecb and a real-time payment tool of our own, the european payments initiative. may we do this together!
i have to say, madam president, the european capital markets union undoubtedly offers many new opportunities, good opportunities for savers and investors. but the whole thing can only work if all the elements fit together harmoniously. one bad element has a negative effect on people. so that means, how is this going to work? it is necessary to control the financial sector in the european capital market. how did you do that? by strengthening, by extending the role of esma. and it needs regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the ccctb is not used as a means of calculating the taxable income of a company. the european minimum corporate tax rate is not just a win for investors, but for all people in europe.
madam president, mr vice-president, in order to emerge from this widespread economic crisis, it is more important than ever to create a capital markets union worthy of the name. we need alternatives to bank loans, especially for smes, but also new investment opportunities for savers. as rapporteur for future relations with the united kingdom, i must also tell you that i am very concerned about our dependence on london for capital, because, depending on the nature of the capital markets, between 40 and 80% of the capital markets of the 27 are conducted in london. we therefore have a lot of work to do to set up a genuine internal market for capital with the necessary critical mass, a better coordinated emu, capable of exploiting the specialisations that our financial centres have succeeded in building up over the years. our pioneering role in sustainable finance will help us to achieve our ambitious objectives under the green deal. our strength lies in the diversity of our financial centres and not in centralisation. ladies and gentlemen, we have a unique opportunity but also a unique obligation to make the euro area and the european union's economy more resilient to future crises. let us seize it with concrete actions and not just with action plans.
madam president, there’s nothing wrong with the idea of the capital markets union in the sense that it could offer new opportunities and promote efficiency and risk diversification. it’s a pity though if it’s translated into a call for deregulation or cutting red tape, as if that’s the only and real impediment to intra-european investments. think big. european capital markets require a uniform rulebook and european supervision. besides, they require that the debt bias is removed from the corporate tax system, and they would be promoted if we had a common withholding tax. well, this isn’t on the table, is it? as long as it’s not on the table, let’s be realistic and pragmatic on what we can achieve with the capital markets union, and with the european union, in this. besides – and this is the main point i would like to make – don’t compare us to the us. we need the european in the capital market. that means strong protection of retail investors and clear standards for sustainability, both environmental and social. the us is not an example for europe on this. we need to take the lead ourselves.
madam president, building the capital union is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of our economy. many surveys show that what they suffer most, especially in times of crisis, is access to financial resources and lack of capital. they are at a great disadvantage compared to the big companies and the competition. if we want a digital, green and innovative economy, we must also talk about financial support for smes. a small firm simply cannot afford to purchase such equipment and services to keep up with the competition. the well-defined conditions of the capital union will therefore help them to overcome the difficult period and to develop further. the construction of a capital union is also important for removing the european comparative disadvantage compared to the us capital market. the capital union is thus an important element for european growth and job creation.
madam president, the impact the pandemic has had on the european economy has been enormous, with a drop of 12% in gdp reported in the eurozone. the impact of course is global. we have seen similar hits elsewhere. the united kingdom 20%, the us 9%, my own country 6%, but we are officially back in recession. so in the context of getting the economy back on track, initiatives like the capital markets union are ever more relevant than they were before the pandemic. putting in place a well functioning capital markets union, as we see in the united states for example, should be considered an important part of our growth strategy for the next decade. it would provide new sources of funding for businesses, reduce the cost of raising capital, increase options for savings across the eu, and make eu financial system more stable, resilient and competitive. the cmu offers enormous potential for our businesses and start-ups, it would make the eu a far more attractive location for innovation and entrepreneurship and help drive jobs to the economy and also of course be very valuable to smes. i look forward to commissioner dombrovskis and my good friend mairead mcguinness, who is now taking over his role, making this a reality during this term.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you once again for this opportunity to debate these important topics today. the future of finance is digital. we have seen it also during the lockdown and we will need it for the recovery, to give better financial products for consumers and to open new funding channels for companies. a number of points were raised by members during this debate on the new market players where we would follow an approach of ‘same activity, same rules’, ensuring a level playing field between existing market players and potential newcomers. we are supportive of the work of the european central bank on the initiative of a central bank digital currency and, as you know, the european central bank recently published a report in this regard. i heard a number of concerns which were raised in the context of crypto-assets, and we will continue to bring crypto-assets into the regulated sphere, to address the risks properly for financial stability, for consumer protection, for anti-money laundering, and especially crypto-assets like global stablecoins will require – and that’s what we have proposed – more stringent rules, given their potentially systematic impact. moving to the capital markets union, over the past five years we have made a lot of progress with our plan to integrate european capital markets into a union. now we need to go further still. it’s important for our people and our businesses to diversify the funding sources of the european economy and to put european savings to productive use. we know that it’s not going to be easy to go to the next level, but our recovery will be far more robust and lasting if we do. i am glad that the commission’s approach in these initiatives is closely aligned with your reports. we share the same main objectives, and i am confident that this house will confirm this at the vote: that our two institutions are indeed the strong partners the eu needs in this critical moment. please rest assured that these reports will remain an important reference point for our work to implement those policies.
rapporteur. – madam president, there were a number of issues raised during this debate, which i think shows that actually there is an urgency and an importance in the debate that we are about to have about digital financial services. i would definitely welcome, executive vice—president, a number of the commitments that you made in your introductory speech, especially those on putting forward initiatives on digital onboarding. i think this is a very important initiative that we really need to put forward in the european union, especially in order to strengthen and enhance the single market in this area, and also the further strengthening of the anti-money laundering framework, which you mentioned will take place next year. i think this is also a very important point for this house to discuss. another issue that was raised – and i think this is also why the urgency is there – is the reaction from our side to initiatives such as libra, a private stablecoin which has the potential to change drastically the way financial and monetary relations are organised in the economy. so i think this house will be happy to have a debate on this issue, and we also welcome the ecb proposals and the scenarios that were published recently. we’re definitely looking forward to a discussion of the proposals that the commission has already made on crypto—assets and digital operational resilience. i also see a very good link between enhancing digital financial services and tapping the potential of the capital markets union, as was mentioned by a number of colleagues. finally, you mentioned, mr executive vice—president, that the future of financial services is digital. i would say that the future of the economy and the future of the european union is digital, so actually we should make sure that the framework that we have is fit for this purpose.
madam president, once again we have a major leak of documents in relation to money laundering and organised crime. the fincen leaks are different from the panama papers, or paradise papers because these 2,500 documents do not only talk about money laundering cases by one person or company. these documents give a clear picture of what is happening in the world and of the scale of this criminal activity, using banks. some banks are reporting on small things while at the same time allowing organised crime to launder money. this is not just happening in the united states, but we also have a problem in europe. we therefore need clear rules to address these practices. our aim is not to increase the costs for banks or to make it impossible for honest businesses to continue their work. our aim is to stop criminals from abusing the financial system to the detriment of honest citizens. our aim should be for money laundering to be identified, stopped and those involved to be brought to justice. this must be done by having, yes, stronger fius and also having regulation at european level against money laundering. i call for this to be done as soon as possible to stop these criminals.
madam president, a new debate on additional money laundering scandals. we've been on this road too long. what we all share is that we all want to end money laundering. but it turns out that, up to now, we have been regulating through directives, which the states interpret, and in many cases do not even apply. we have national supervisors who are unable to control, in a global capital market with full freedom of movement. and then we have some lists of tax havens in which there are states that come in and out, in short, without knowing very well what the requirements are to take the cayman islands or other countries off those lists. we need regulations, european regulation, and we need to have a european policy. we need a supervisor and a european public prosecutor's office, and we need to take the fight, the fight against the tax havens through which money laundering passes, very seriously.
madam president, the fincen files show clearly the sheer quantity of suspicious transactions taking place in us dollars across the globe, including the eu. it is no different if we consider transactions in euros or other currencies in the eu. this highlights the need for better global cooperation. the fincen case also demonstrates that reporting works, because reports are filed in the first place. however, what happens after these are reported is what truly matters. do the authorities adequately check and if necessary investigate activities? in the eu, europol reported, for instance, that there were one million strs in 2014. of these only ten percent were further investigated and only one percent of the money reported as suspicious was recovered. this was not a one—off. this is indeed a trend, repeating itself since the early 2000s. so clearly we are missing a link. we need better supervision and information sharing, not just between national, european and international authorities, but also between banks and, importantly, within banking groups. i believe that one of these missing links could be a more generalised use of regulatory and supervisory technologies based, for instance, on ai for processing transactions. this could significantly improve compliance with regulations, identify suspicious activities faster and more efficiently, and also signal them to the relevant authorities. so, yes, let’s strengthen our regulatory framework, but let’s also beef up the authorities so that they are able to have an efficient fight against money laundering in europe.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on eritrea, the case of dawit isaak (2020/2813(rsp)).
i called in the order in which the motions were tabled because it’s a long—term practice in the plenary to do it this way, and i would like to stick to it. i am, of course, open to changes. however, i think that the political groups should agree first on a different practice if we change it. i don’t think that it’s a good idea to change it for one debate this way and for another debate another way. so i would like to stick to the order that i called for.
please have the floor. as i said, i am open to changes if the political groups agree at the cop level. i’m not willing to change the long—term practice just for...
mr president, i’d like to thank the rapporteur, mr saliba, for his work on the committee on internal market and consumer protection (imco) report on the digital services act (dsa) report, that gives clear political guidance on the digital services act. with this report, parliament calls for an active, unified notice and action system, while insisting that the final decision about the illegality of content remains with the courts. this also means that there will be safeguards against notices in bad faith. people will also have the possibility to better understand the reasons why their content was removed and contest removals in an out—of—court dispute settlement mechanism. at the same time, parliament calls for interoperability rules that can help smes, start—ups or volunteer projects to provide alternatives to dominant platforms. however, transparency on removals, the possibility to contest removals and the possibility to choose alternative services is not enough because, if at the same time we encourage online platforms to use automated filters, we cannot ensure that completely legal speech doesn’t get systematically removed. the internet needs to remain a place where people can share time—sensitive information, have an open public debate or promote their products at the time of their choice, and this cannot be guaranteed with automated filters in place. we ask the commission to take these points into account in the upcoming legislation. i apologise that i cannot stay longer for the debate because of other commitments i have.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 20 october 2020. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – i believe that ai can make a huge contribution to improve the lives of european citizens. ai is a strategic engine that contributes to improving productivity and economic growth. ai is also transforming the way we interact with money helping to streamline and optimize greater access to financial services and efficiency of operations. ai is a powerful ally when it comes to preventing and battling money laundering. its sophisticated technology not only settles the infrastructure to recognise suspicious activity, but also helps to cut the costs of investigating alleged money-laundering schemes. however, as ai flourishes beyond the realm of science & research and penetrates into our daily lives, lawmakers should commit to steering it in a direction that benefits the common good. ai also raises a number of ethical challenges since it can potentially entail risks for eu citizens’ fundamental rights. the challenges presented by ai circle around the balance between the need to take advantage of this technology and the development of leading regulatory standards that puts people first. ai should be a human-centric technology. i believe it is necessary to establish a comprehensive european legal framework that enables technically robust ai development, while setting up ethical standards.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on the future of european education in the context of covid-19 by sabine verheyen, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-000052/2020 – b9-0020/20) (2020/2760(rsp)), and– the oral question to the commission on the future of european education in the context of covid-19 by sabine verheyen, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-000053/2020 – b9-0021/20) (2020/2760(rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 21 october 2020. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on obligations in the field of visa reciprocity in accordance with article of regulation (eu) 2018/1806 by juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000049/2020 – b9—0022/20) (2020/2605(rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 21 october 2020. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is a short presentation of the report by radosław sikorski, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, concerning the implementation and governance of permanent structured cooperation (pesco) (2020/2080(ini)) (a9-0165/2020).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 20 october 2020.
the next item is a short presentation of the report by dragoş tudorache, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the eu association agreement with the republic of moldova (2019/2201(ini)) (a9-0166/2020).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 20 october 2020. written statements (rule 171)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, this is a massively important debate. it is a massively important reform of the common agricultural policy (cap). it will decide how our food is produced, how our land is managed, how our environment is protected or indeed destroyed. my message to the epp, the s&d and the renew group is that if you are so sure that what you propose is good then leave it open to democratic scrutiny. however, the use of rule 183 makes that impossible and you know that. the chairman of the environment, public health and food safety (envi) committee tells us that we torpedoed the process. this is totally untrue. i have tried to make this work, but the reality is that the epp clearly don’t want it to work. they deliberately destroyed the process in the same way as a spoilt rich kid calls halt to a game of football because they own the ball and they can. i did not sign the rejection amendment because i had some little bit of faith in those that i have worked with for the last few years. not anymore. i had some hope that her amendments would make the cap reform in some way meaningful. amendments that would have really ringfenced money for the environment. amendments that would have excluded areas that have nothing to do with the environment. amendments that would have led to more money for the family farm. amendments that would have recognised the reality that without a just transition, there will be no transition at all. however, now i am forced to vote for amendment 1147 to send back the cap to the commission in order for them to come up with a green deal that is compatible with what they should be doing. we have time to do this correctly. we have the two-year transition period where we can come up with a common agricultural policy that works for farmers, for consumers and for the planet. we have the evidence from the european court of auditors. they are not biased. they just follow the evidence. they are telling us that we must change our ways. they are telling us that what we have been doing is not working, and to ignore them is to throw insult at the people of the european union, and we shouldn’t do this. we should reject this proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the common agricultural policy is a key policy of the european union, and with this vote we are setting the basic direction for this policy for the next decade. my group will support the compromises negotiated. we think they're headed in the right direction. we need a balanced european agricultural policy. we need a balance between a policy that looks at sustainability, that looks at climate change, but also looks at the needs of the citizens for their daily food. and, mr commissioner, food security is also important, and you should bear that in mind as the commissioner responsible for agriculture. i think the sad moments of the covid-19 crisis have taught us the importance of taking care of ourselves. and i don't want our food to be like the masks and the ventilators, where we had to import every scrap of the world and then they were bought right out from under our noses. but we also need agriculture that looks at the diverse consumer desires and needs - well, if there is more demand for organic goods, for local production, for short supply chains. but we must also feed safely and with dignity those who cannot afford to go to the delicatessen every day - there are also those in europe. i do not want european agriculture producing for the top ten thousand, and those who have to look at their wallets when they go to the supermarket getting cheap foreign food. we must not forget that, in the end, it is the ten million or so farmers in europe who are at stake, and only if our policies help them to earn an income will they continue to exist and will there continue to be young people in agriculture. farming is not a hobby, as it is sometimes portrayed here, it is a profession. and only if we create the conditions for all farmers, even in the most difficult situations - in the mountains - to live in, will they continue to find young successors. i hope that this week we will be able to lay a good foundation for the farmers, for the young farmers, for the consumers and for the environment in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to protest strongly against the fact that the votes on the cap have been moved up from wednesday to tuesday. this is an unprecedented step, and on monday another agenda was agreed. this administrative action has caused very, very great unease in parliament. it has rightly been attacked, many citizens are upset, and ngos and press representatives believe that there is fraud here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but now to the substance: we have come a long way, a very complicated way, towards the cap. i would like to address my remarks first of all to mrs ursula von der leyen. ursula von der leyen has not performed her duty of care. she has tacitly accepted that although she has called for the green deal an old proposal in the agriculture committee remained on the table. she's quietly accepted that there's no real link to the green deal, the farm-to-fork or the biodiversity strategy. it has remained silent, even though we have said many times in many places that we need a new package of reforms. it was negligent of her to do nothing, to simply keep silent and not act. now, the situation we're facing is, is this old reform bill even green deal-able, can we even change it to fit the world now? i think that's a really, really difficult question. we have tried - it is our job as a parliament to try - to get the best out of it. we have tried to improve on this really bad draft by mr hogan. we have a number of amendments from the envi and i hope, although i work in the committee on agriculture, that all the envi amendments will then be accepted and taken up by parliament. we need 30% eco-schemes, that's the minimum for me. we need clear objectives for the cap. we need a clear link to farm-to-fork, biodiversity strategy and the paris agreement. we need a good green architecture, we need a good red architecture, the social architecture in agriculture. we need to make it clear that a cap is a matter of justice. the cap is a fair system and we need a clear anchoring of our agricultural policy in the region. the old proposal, as it stands, still has a computational climate protection in it. we have managed to wipe this area off the table completely, we cannot say with a calculation of climate protection, we automatically calculate the area at 40%. and i am grateful to my group, the s&d group, for saying from the outset that we will not have a computational climate change policy, but only a real, real, science-based climate change policy. i would also like to say a few words to mrs klöckner. mrs klöckner, if you in the council dare to water down this result from parliament, you are sinning against the next generation. if you dare to talk about volunteering in eco-schemes, if you dare to talk about climate money ending up in the final payments, then you are sinning. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter. it's not allowed. i would like to thank my colleagues in parliament for the excellent cooperation we have had and i would like to thank the ngos in the streets. because street pressure is important, important, important!
mr president, the countryside, the countryside, farmers, food producers and citizens have been waiting for three years for us to agree on the direction of the common agricultural policy and on a vision for our countryside. we should not delay any longer. citizens don't understand why we can't reach an agreement after such a long time, especially in these very difficult times. those who do not want to agree are seriously risking supporting the european project and helping those who want to undermine it. i'm glad our renew europe faction isn't one of them. it is part of the agreement on the green architecture of the common agricultural policy. an ambitious plan to better and more effectively protect our soil, water, air and landscape. and you know, you can't do that without agriculture and the countryside. agriculture and rural areas will be part of this solution, while ensuring that their efforts are supported by adequate support and economic viability. at the same time, it must be a solution that preserves the common agricultural policy and prevents unfair interference with competitiveness. let us hope that the outcome of our vote this week is not a confusion of contradictory cries but a clear and thoughtful policy. only then will we be a worthy partner for the council and for the commissioner in the negotiations that follow. only then will citizens be able to understand how fundamentally and yet vitally we can reform this important policy.
mr. chairman, greetings from prague. the common agricultural policy is designed to help farmers, of course, but it is also designed to help the countryside and protect the environment. for good water and soil quality, we need to increase biodiversity. unfortunately, as farming intensifies, biodiversity is declining. the intensity also increases with the size of the companies. we in the czech republic have the highest average size in the european union and we also see the negative impacts not only on the environment. experts say that a change in the funding settings would help a lot, and i see very clearly one tool that would help us is mandatory funding tracking. mandatory matching of subsidies will help small businesses, family farms, those who, in turn, increase and support diversity. i have therefore proposed a voting procedure which introduces compulsory voting and which would be very helpful. i'm also sending you all my proposal, asking you to support mandatory funding tracking and cutting subsidies for agricultural holdings, for giant corporations.
in writing. let me start by saying that although i am not usually involved in the very popular war on carbon, which has overtaken all other issues here on the floor of the european parliament in the last year, the protection of nature is something that is very close to my heart. i believe that today's predominantly industrial agriculture is damaging nature, soil, water systems and landscapes more than anything else. the proven decline of the field songbirds and pollinators in our country is proof. so i supported the efforts of ornithologists and landscape conservationists to make a difference. this proposal is not such a change. it only cements the flow of direct subsidies, especially to large industrial agribusinesses. these grants account for almost 40% of all european public money grants. it is further support for the endless rows of rapeseed and maize that end up in subsidised diesel production and in subsidised biogas plants. the czech republic is the 'yellowest' country in the eu, thanks to the ranking and subsidies, so i can tell you from my own experience that it is not worth it.
the sitting is resumed. i will now move to the third voting session of the day. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be opened from 8 p.m. until 9.15 p.m. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll call. i declare the third voting session open. you have until 9.15 p.m. to vote. the results will be announced today at 11 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 20.01)
madam president, the pandemic has proven two things. most importantly, it showed us how much we are interconnected and depend on each other. if we suffer or prosper, we are in it together. however, it also showed us how disorganised and weak we are in the face of new challenges. member states closing borders without coordination, applying different travel conditions, providing contradictory information, and competing for supplies among themselves look like complete chaos, a dangerous chaos with human lives at stake. we need a coordinated european response. we need stronger rule of law conditionalities, and we need to move the health competencies from national to central eu level, with the backing of a stronger european centre for disease prevention and control. only by acting together will we overcome this pandemic.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place shortly. the final vote will take place on thursday, 22 october 2020. the sitting is suspended until 18.15 and the announcement of the results of the second voting session. written declarations (rule 171)
(addressinglefteris christoforou) there has been a request for a point of order. however, the president announced at the opening of the part-session that no points of order are allowed.
before opening the first voting session of the day, i would like, pursuant to rule 59(4), to give the floor to mr peter jahr on the referral back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations of his report on common agricultural policy – support for strategic plans to be drawn up by member states and financed by the eagf and by the eafrd. i will also give the floor to ms ulrike müller on the referral back to committee of her report on common agricultural policy: financing, management and monitoring. i will also give the floor to mr norbert lins, chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the referral back to committee of the andrieu report on common agricultural policy – amendment of the cmo and other regulations.
this request will be put to the vote tomorrow, after the votes on the commission’s proposals. i will now move to the first voting session of the day. we will vote on the files as indicated on the agenda. the voting session will be open from 9.15 a.m. until 10.30 a.m. the same voting method will be used as during the previous voting sessions. all votes will be held by roll—call. i declare the first voting session open. you have until 10.30 a.m. to vote. the results of the first voting session will be announced at 1 p.m.
the next item is the report by ernest urtasun, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on gender equality in eu’s foreign and security policy (2019/2167(ini)) (a9-0145/2020). i would like to inform members that for all debates of this part-session, there will be no catch-the-eye procedure and that no blue cards and points of order will be accepted. furthermore, possible remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all have big plans in common when it comes to transport policy: digitisation, automation, reduction of emissions. but it also takes money. our problem today is that the demands are high and the purse is small. it was in our interest to put that together a little bit. let's take just one example, alternative infrastructure: there are 125 hydrogen stations in the european union today. there are a little over 20,000 fast charging stations. the commission itself has said that we need one million fast charging stations by 2025, compared with just over 20 000 at present. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national networks. that is why we have tabled proposals in the committee on transport to increase the connecting europe facility, to increase funding for the aviation safety agency, to increase funding for the european maritime safety agency and to fund a pilot project to increase transparency in public procurement. and i hope that this will be a factor in the negotiations.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, the union's 2021 budget needs to be re-adjusted to fully take into account the covid-19 pandemic. our regi committee recalls the central role that cohesion policy will play in 2021 in mitigating the economic and social impact of covid, as well as in post-pandemic recovery. we also recall the absolutely essential contribution of cohesion policy in the emergency responses that have already benefited europe's regions, through the crii and crii plus regulations that we adopted here in plenary for the use of esi funds in response to the pandemic. we also note that the introduction of these measures will lead to an increased need for payment appropriations, which will have to be taken into account in the budget for the 2021 financial year if we want, commissioner hahn, to pay for all the projects committed. we also welcome the creation of the react-eu programme, which will make additional funds available to the erdf, as well as the esf and the eafrd. we are almost at the end of the trilogue on react-eu. we will have a final trilogue agreement next week, the deadlines are met and react-eu funds can be deployed in a timely manner. finally, we consider the european union's recovery tool to be an important step towards a fair and sustainable recovery. however, we fear that, in view of the freedoms granted to the member states, the objectives of cohesion, and in particular the reduction of territorial divisions, will be lost along the way.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries. – madam president, as the representative of the fisheries committee, i’m observing the developments of the proposed budget with great concerns. the 2021 budget is of particular importance for the entire fisheries and aquaculture sector, and it comes at a time of severe economic instability. the new european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) should help the sector to meet the new objectives of the eu, in particular, to deliver on the green deal, and that comes with significant costs. this alone would have well justified an increase in the budget for 2021 but, not only is the budget in decline, but the sector is in difficulty and facing unprecedented crisis. the sector is suffering from the consequences of the massive drop in demand for fisheries and aquaculture product throughout europe. we don’t even know yet how many waves of lockdowns will hit europe, we don’t know how long and often restaurants and hotels will remain closed in the majority of member states, with substantially reducing demand for fisheries and aquaculture products and business opportunities for our fishermen. the amounts proposed by the commission are well below what is needed: a drop by 13.5% in comparison to 2020. the council position is even worse. this is simply irregular, irresponsible and unacceptable for us in the fisheries committee. this is why the text proposed by our committee for the plenary raises direct management for the emff. it would bring it in line with parliament’s original position on the multiannual financial framework (mff) and also it would help the sector and those in need to act fast and get help very fast. this is why we in the european parliament must vote in defence of our fisheries sector and in favour of the amendments presented by the fisheries committee. only this could help equip the emff with the real strike for 2021.
madam president, executive vice-president, in order to truly deliver on the ambitious objectives of the european green deal, it must be sustainable not only environmentally, but also socioeconomically. to achieve this goal, we need to mobilise an unprecedented level of investment. in terms of public funds, we will have many instruments in our toolbox under the umbrella of the next mff and recovery plan. but public funds will not, simply, be enough. rough estimates of the level of investments required clearly show this. without attracting private investors, we will miss the target. the eu and member states must work together to tap into synergies between public and private finance. we have to create favourable business environments, adequate regulatory frameworks, relevant and accessible financial instruments, and above all, incentives for companies to invest in sustainable technologies. our business sector will be a key enabler to climate-related policies. smes will be front—line actors in this regard. therefore, we need to assist their efforts through appropriate policy action. finally, it is also essential that sufficient funding is available for the regions and people who will be most acutely affected by the transition to more sustainable economic activities.
in writing. despite some of the positive aspects, we are again dealing with a plan that does not respect reality, in which the enthusiasm for a green future suppresses all the questions that, especially in relation to some points, arise when reading to any intellectually honest person. the backbone of the plan comes from the time before the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, which has significantly damaged european economies. i believe that in this situation, member states and the private sector should be untied to treat the common funds according to their current needs, not to impose new conditions in line with the eu's long-term environmental and climate ambitions, and even to revise the existing rules in order to finance the green deal, for which, moreover, all the parameters are not yet known, let alone the impact studies. the eu's new own resources remain a euphemism for new taxes, while all the complications of the plan are to be compensated by the member states and their citizens being the world's 'green trendsetter'.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank mr calenda for his work and for his words this evening. europe has always been the home of industry and, throughout history, industry has proven its ability to lead change. to prepare for the future, europe needs industry that is greener, more digital and more resilient, while remaining competitive on the global stage. eu institutions, member states and regions have to work alongside industry to make this happen. we must do more than just adapt. we want to accelerate and enable change and innovation. this is why we must move forward on our agenda, as announced in the new industrial strategy. important initiatives have been delivered, such as the action plan on critical raw materials, and many are still to come. a deeper and more digital single market; a global level playing field and open markets; working towards climate neutrality and a more circular economy; fostering employment and innovation, skills and investments: all these will be essential to achieve our goals. the covid—19 crisis has increased the momentum to use the recovery as an opportunity to accelerate our joint efforts. we will update the industrial strategy next year to take account of the lessons learned from the pandemic and to ensure that it continues to be fit for purpose to lead the green and digital transformations. to achieve this, we will have to work together. in updating our industrial strategy, we plan to work closer than ever with the member states, as well as with industry and other stakeholders: for example, in the context of industrial ecosystems, alliances and the industry forum. europe has an excellent industrial foundation. we have the benefit of diverse and competitive companies of all sizes, including smes and social economy enterprises, and a huge range of different industries, not only a few giants. that’s why the focus of the new industrial strategy is on industrial ecosystems, incorporating all players operating in a value chain: not just a few big companies, but value chains in which companies of all sizes can participate. such an approach has already shown its benefits in the field of batteries. in july, the commission launched the european clean hydrogen alliance and the new european raw materials alliance in september. a european alliance on industrial data and cloud is also on the way. soon we will launch a new industrial forum, which will bring together companies of all sizes with researchers and unions and national governments. our new industrial strategy is part of a package of initiatives to make europe’s businesses future ready. there will also be a dedicated strategy for smes and concrete steps to address barriers in the way of a well-functioning single market. this single market is europe’s strongest asset to allow all of our businesses to grow and compete in europe and beyond. the openness of europe’s economy is a source of prosperity and competitiveness. we need a european industrial policy based on competition, open markets, world—leading research and technologies, and a strong single market, which removes barriers and cuts red tape. but we must resist the simplistic temptations that come with protectionism or market distortions, while not being naive in the face of unfair competition, to ensure a level playing field beyond the single market. reciprocity in public procurement is a key part of the industrial policy toolbox. we’re also working on legislative proposals to tackle the distortive effects of foreign subsidies on the single market. the covid—19 crisis has highlighted that dependency on a single supplier for some specific critical goods could limit europe’s ability to respond to future shocks. europe needs to build up resilience and strengthen the open strategic autonomy of the eu economy in the long run, while remaining open to the world. this requires an evidence-based approach, where we first identify any vulnerabilities and then explore how to address them, notably by contributing to the diversification of our supply chains. the commission supports the agreement found in the trilogue between the council and parliament on europe’s next long—term budget and next generation eu, europe’s new recovery instrument. now it is important to move forward. the strength of our union has always been that we overcome difficult situations by engaging with each other. so we are working hard to implement the final step on the mff, while ensuring respect for the rule of law. this new powerful and modern long-term budget for the union will allow us to turn the immediate challenges posed by the covid—19 pandemic into long-term opportunities by not only supporting the recovery, but also by investing in our future. to make that future sustainable, inclusive and fair for all, we need to spend the money from the recovery instrument in a way that crowds in private investment and does not undermine the ability of our industries to compete by harming competition or weakening the single market. honourable members, the time to get it right is now. we do not get a second chance.
the case is closed. the vote will be held on wednesday 25 november 2020. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. – the european industrial policy strategy should promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation, where climate neutrality, sustainability, innovation and competitiveness should go together with social inclusiveness. economic recovery following the pandemic must be sustainable, fair and socially just with focus on digital and green transitions. european industry represents more than 20% of our economy and directly employs about 35 million people. in addition, it accounts for 80% of goods exports. it is not a question that the new industrial strategy should enable companies to contribute to their climate-neutrality targets, but also should support firms, particularly small and medium enterprises in their transition to a digital and carbon-neutral economy with creating high-quality jobs and without undermining the eu’s competitiveness. as shadow rapporteur of the imco opinion i am glad that the final document is a balanced and future oriented. amongst others, it is rightly tackling such issues as: maintaining our global role model for sustainability; reflecting on supply chain disruptions we experienced at the beginning of the pandemic and underlining the importance of cross-border value-chains; declaring that smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups are key players in our market; and equating social, environmental and economic criteria in public procurement frameworks.
in writing. – smes play a key role in the transition towards a digital and green european industry. they are at the heart of to europe’s recovery and prosperity. smes have the potential to invigorate the economy and stimulate competitiveness, bringing innovative solutions, incentivising the market to help to build a robust infrastructure, particularly as regards the platform economy. established industrial firms can be supported by smes to adapt their business models to smart, digital and sustainable processes, enhancing resilience to external shocks. consequently, smes are a core element of the eu’s industrial recovery, performing as catalysts of europe’s dual transitions. smes are a key engine to drive the spirit of the european recovery and society’s welfare. as the backbone of the eu economy smes should be incentivised and supported, so they can be globally competitive. furthermore, given the proliferation of tech-based businesses as a direct consequence of the covid pandemic, bringing together work on the industrial strategy with that of the data strategy and sme strategy can help ensure eu tech companies have the means at their disposal to benefit from their access to the single market, and therefore increase customer bases and business opportunities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in ethiopia (2020/2881(rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the continuous violations of human rights in belarus, in particular the murder of raman bandarenka (2020/2882(rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, ‘i am going out’. these were the last words of raman bandarenka before he was kidnapped and beaten to death by men in plain clothes. his words were sent to a group chat on telegram, the encrypted messaging app which is shielding millions of belarusian citizens from the government’s internet censorship. this tragedy, one on an already long list, epitomises the current state of things in belarus. an illegitimate government keeps denying its own people fundamental human rights by way of illegal detentions, torture and even murder. it should be evident by now that the sanctions issued, until this moment, have failed to produce results. the regime did not take even a single step back so we must take a step forward. it is time to introduce further restrictive measures, direct them more at lukashenko himself, and ban the export of any european goods and technology that are helping this regime, such as drones and spyware.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written statements (rule 171)
(addressing mr łukasz kohut) i would like to clarify that the english interpretation was off because it wasn’t said by the speaker in an official language of the european union. i get the idea in this debate, but then please be aware that we do not get any interpretation if it is not spoken in one of the official languages of the european union.
the debate is closed. i have received two motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 222(8)*. the vote on amendments will take place on wednesday, 16 december 2020 and the final vote will take place on thursday, 17 december 2020. –––––––––––––––* see minutes. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by anna deparnay-grunenberg, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a european year of rail (2021) (com(2020)0078 – c9-0076/2020 – 2020/0035(cod)) (a9—0191/2020).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 december 2020. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by paolo borchia, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a new strategy for european smes (2020/2131(ini)) (a9-0237/2020).
member of the commission. – mr president, i should like to thank everyone for a very interesting debate. timely, very consistent, varied ideas are really appreciated, and i know that your interest in sme policy is really genuine and i really appreciate that. thank you again for this opportunity. i also want to pass on the appreciation of my fellow commissioners for the exchanges they had with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs while this report was being drawn up. just one idea before i close: the report by the committee on industry, research and energy puts forward an idea for a formal state of the sme union. the commission publishes an sme performance review annually and is very much in favour of regular exchanges with parliament on small and medium-sized enterprises, which we are sure are going to bring them more central to our work. so again a word of appreciation and congratulations from the report.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on tuesday 15 december 2020 and the final vote on wednesday 16 december 2020. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of the european union's economy. unfortunately, they have been particularly vulnerable to the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, and their situation has changed dramatically in recent months. i welcome the fact that the report highlights the importance of smes for the european economy and declares its support for them. the final text stressed the importance of improving access to financial instruments for smes, vocational training, innovation and reducing administrative burdens. the report also highlighted the difficulties faced by smes in the international arena and the problem of dependence on third countries, which was exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic and the resulting disruption of supply chains. the pandemic should mobilise the commission to work hard to build the competitiveness and autonomy of the eu economy and to strengthen european supply chains. recovery actions should not only boost the economy and protect jobs, but also initiate a smooth transition to a dual transformation towards a sustainable and digital eu in the near future and make europe the most attractive place in the world to start a small business.
in writing. the 24 million smes in the european union provide jobs for around 100 million people, representing more than half of the european union's gdp. smes are the backbone of the european economy the covid-19 crisis has had a negative impact on the economic environment, with the effect of reducing activities or even bankrupting european businesses. in the light of new developments, the european union needs to update its sme strategy to meet the current and future challenges of the green and digital transition. it is time for the european union to propose even more concrete solutions to protect existing jobs, create new jobs and create business opportunities for smes, improving their competitiveness and reducing their existing costs. in addition to the damage caused by the coronavirus, smes also have to cope with unfair competition non-eu producers continue to rely on lower labour and environmental standards than those at european level the european union must protect its own businesses and become the most attractive continent to set up a business i 'm not .
in writing. smes represent 99% of all businesses in the eu and are the backbone of the economy. and while they create two out of three jobs, today's challenges seem to affect millions of these smes, which are active in the internal market. smes promote entrepreneurship and innovation, helping to boost competitiveness, economic growth and employment in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the community's energy sector. it is extremely important that we facilitate their access to finance and remove any obstacles to this by simplifying procedures.
in writing. smes are the basis for growth in the european economy. these companies are currently facing enormous challenges, including red tape, administrative burdens, the economic downturn due to covid, competitiveness issues, and the transition to a green and digital economy. smes are vital to strengthening european value chains, without which there is no economic recovery. it is therefore essential that we do everything we can in the internal market to ensure that smes are only subject to reasonable and achievable expectations. the european parliament's report contains a number of positive elements. the proposal, which i have stressed on several occasions, is that in order to create a business-friendly regulatory environment, the commission should first examine all legislative proposals in terms of their impact on competitiveness and smes and take the results into account in all legislative proposals. the sme test is important because smes are often disproportionately affected by the costs of new regulation due to their size and limited resources. the report also sets a binding numerical target for reducing the administrative burden on smes, which i also welcome. the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in this article to finance the expenditure incurred by the member states in implementing the union's policies on energy, climate change and the environment.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) account for around 100 million jobs and more than 50% of gdp in the european union. the survival of smes, family businesses and individual entrepreneurs is vital to the functioning of the european economy, and it is therefore of paramount importance to identify points of common interest in this area. since the european commission has not produced a policy concept for smes since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic, the european parliament's report can be considered incomplete. the report aims to improve the situation of smes in three key areas. the document calls on the european commission to develop quantifiable targets for reducing bureaucracy in the area of smes. the concept of sme testing introduced in eu legislation can also greatly improve the situation of smes. finally, the report aims to simplify access for smes to the european common market and resources, which is also a priority. in order to overcome the economic crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic, smes need to reduce administrative burdens, proportionate legislation and additional resources. in the current situation, it would be particularly irresponsible to burden smes with the ideological expectations of the european left. it is good that the european parliament, in its report, has taken the right step in the right direction.
in writing. i welcome the report on the strategy for smes as it addresses the key issues facing these entities. and not just in the context of normal operations, but also in the crisis context of the current pandemic. i would like to highlight the points which i consider to be key in terms of creating the right conditions for smes to do business. firstly, access to finance: the report rightly points to the steps we need to take to make it easier for businesses to access finance, such as improving the conditions for access to bank loans. i consider it important to broaden the possibilities for capital market financing, including the cross-border dimension. in fact, the legislation to be drafted in this area should focus on smes. another important topic in this regard is the development of financial literacy. secondly, digitalisation: this transformation, accelerated by the pandemic, will bring new opportunities for companies to reach a wider range of investors and customers, not only in europe but also globally. the key factor here is access to data, its processing and evaluation, similar to that of the big tech players. finally, innovation: we need to encourage emerging opportunities and their exploitation, especially in the context of post-pandemic economic recovery. to do this, we need to create a level playing field and a functional environment for smes to thrive in the european single market.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the year 2020 has been turbulent for our eastern partners, and the eastern partnership has become more unstable than ever. we have had belarus cracking down on peacefully-protesting citizens, increasing polarisation in moldova, a democratic backslide in georgia, ukraine’s constitutional crisis, and the revived war in nagorno karabakh – armenia and azerbaijan blaming each other for the ceasefires and attacking civilians. the status quo kept for years brought the violence again, which is never a way for peace. there is a need for serious debate about the future. nevertheless, regarding the issues in the eastern partnership, i am more disappointed in the eu’s approach and so-called common foreign and security policy. we have 27 foreign and security policies, and it shows in our incapability of doing more than these hearings and occasional sanctions. we must have a more substantial, better—united foreign and security policy that will stand behind human rights. without it, we might just start to call ourselves the european economy community again.
