the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on the devastating bushfires in australia and other extreme weather events due to climate change (2020/2504 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i think i’ll wait a second until it calms down a little bit.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, despite the dramatic and, i would even say, tragic events we are going to discuss in a minute, this is the first time we have seen each other after the christmas break, and therefore i would like to wish all of you, the citizens you represent and the whole european union, all the best for the new year and happiness in 2020. we know that it will be a very challenging year and therefore i very much appreciate that you have already put as the first item on the plenary agenda this urgent debate on the devastating bush fires in australia. as you know, my commissioner colleagues are now coming to strasbourg from luxembourg, where they have been pledging the oath to their office at the european court of justice, and therefore it would be my pleasure and my honour to represent the european commission in the afternoon’s plenary debates with you. as you very well know – and as australia has confirmed – these fires which we are going to debate are unprecedented. they have devastated local communities, they have led to the tragic loss of homes and they have taken the lives of people and, possibly, of over a billion animals, many of which are completely unique in the world. beyond the immediate destruction of forest, land, lives, animals and ecosystems, these wildfires jeopardise health and livelihoods in other places as well. canberra experienced peak air pollution levels that were 20 times above the hazardous threshold, to give just one example. first and foremost, we send our support and solidarity to australia. the european union stands ready to help the australian people. yesterday, my colleague commissioner lenarčič reached out and spoke to the australian minister littleproud and he reiterated the union’s readiness to assist australia in this moment of crisis. he also informed the minister of the possibility for, in particular, firefighters to be deployed at short notice under the union civil protection mechanism. the minister appreciated the support and readiness of the union to help, but he reiterated that at this stage they don’t require additional assistance. the science is loud and clear. climate change will increase the frequency of extreme weather events and these events will continue to affect us, and with more and more consequences and higher and higher intensity. do we need more proof that the prevention of climate change and environmental destruction, adaptation and disaster risk prevention, are absolutely necessary, and that we need to mitigate the effects of climate change together in europe, in australia and in the rest of the world? we have discussed many times in recent months the importance of eu leadership on global climate action. the effective implementation of the paris agreement and increasing global ambition is a key priority under the european green deal. the european union will use all the tools at our disposal to tackle the global climate challenge. our bilateral engagement with partner countries is crucial, in particular with the g20 economies that are responsible for three-quarters of global emissions. we value our long-standing partnership with australia and are working to strengthen it through the establishment of the dialogue on climate action under the framework agreement. the commission thanks the parliament for tabling this urgent debate and for seeing the climate urgency in these tragic events and especially in these circumstances, where we need to highlight the need to take global action. this is yet another proof of europe’s ambition to take leadership against climate change, and on this the commission will always remain on your side.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank you very much for your report, commissioner šefčovič. let me make two comments on this. firstly, with the commission's relaunch, the launch of the green deal and the follow-up to the world climate conference in madrid, the eu must add a climate and environment dimension to its foreign policy more clearly than before. we need more than just summits and conferences, we need constant promotion of the paris climate targets and the content of the green deal. the future eu climate diplomacy must be strengthened in terms of personnel and, above all, institutional and competence, so that we can quickly bring on board partners like australia, which have been difficult to reach so far. and secondly, we have to face up to the fact that the way in which fires are being fought has been called into question. australia's firefighting system is one of the best in the world, yet it has been overwhelmed by the novel fire dynamics. we must face the challenge of living with the fire or leaving certain areas uninhabited in the future. in 2018, forest fires in greece killed 100 people. australian vegetation is found in many parts of the world, and here in europe, another hot summer may be coming. therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, please take up the new challenge of preventing and adapting to firestorms and strengthening european climate diplomacy.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. what bothers me most about the debate is the sensational satisfaction of left-wing climate neurotics with the terrible fires in australia, under the motto: here is finally the proof of man-made climate change. shame on you, and shame on you loud and clear. without wishing to sound cynical, devastating fires have repeatedly erupted from the fires that are part of the continent's ecosystem: 1851, 1939, 1983, 1974, 1975, for example, were such years. what about the drought? in fact, there is a trend towards higher annual precipitation, as you can see here in this descriptive statistic of the last 120 years, even though 2019 was particularly low in precipitation. the causes of the fires? among other things, it was not only arson but also the crooked policies of green environmentalists that prevented government programs to deliberately burn dead wood. this has massively increased the so-called burden of fire. even small bushfires can become disastrous. these facts do not make the suffering of the victims any more bearable, nor do they make the drama in the wild.
i have to say, madam president, the fires in australia are a nightmare, and you sit there and ask yourself all the time: what can we do, what can we do as europeans? it is clear that our solidarity is with australia, but solidarity is not enough. we need to look very closely at how our economic relations with australia are fuelling the climate. because now even prime minister morrison is recognizing that there is a connection between the climate crisis and the fires. example 1: the eu is planning to conclude a free trade agreement with australia later this year. this agreement will lead to increased emissions, as the commission's own official analysis shows. for example, because the increasing meat production is taking up more and more grazing land, and because we are shipping meat and other products all over the world. and that's going to continue to heat up the climate. example number two: we all know we need to get off coal as quickly as possible, and yet australia is planning to build one of the largest coal mines in the world with adani, together with european companies like siemens. australia is burning, and siemens is putting the adani deal ahead of the paris climate accord. both examples show that we finally need a change in the eu's trade and foreign economic policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the international criminal justice system. but organized crime has long since fully recognized the process of european integration as such. any act which is not prevented by the lack of police cooperation, the lack of harmonization in the european area, gives the enemies of europe the opportunity to polemicise against one of the most precious freedoms, namely the free movement of persons in europe. that is why we pro-europeans are called upon to be more courageous and to finally move forward decisively in police cooperation and justice. we have to get out of the national silos that we have. we need a european fbi against organised crime, and we need finally better cooperation between our security services. but above all we must protect one thing, which is the free movement of people within europe and the free movement of people, because this is one of the most precious freedoms on which europe is built.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. free movement is considered by many to be one of the eu's great achievements. but it comes at a price. according to the 2017 european union serious and organised crime threat assessment report, some 5000 organised crime groups operate within the eu a 50% increase compared to 2013! the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction also reports that the eu is experiencing the worst drug crisis since the eu was founded. and the attacks in paris, berlin and nice also show how terrorists exploit the freedom of movement. drugs, crime and terrorism are undermining civil societies. add to this the growing financial power of organized crime. the annual profits of organised crime in the eu area are already 110 billion euros! this too is changing societies for the worse. the situation in central american countries is a blueprint for what is also happening in some countries in south-eastern europe: the takeover of state institutions by financially powerful criminal cartels. when schengen was introduced, the eu promised that freedom of movement would not come at the expense of security. the opposite is true, organized crime and terrorism are growing unchecked! the danish authorities have also reintroduced border controls last week, as a result of the continuing security situation. the schengen system has failed. you should admit that!
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the 'uniform mobile phone charger' (2019/2983 ((rsp)).
i know this one minute is far too short to say anything sensible, but we can't leave it to the interpreters, they're not coming.
i have seven reports on spontaneous speech and i would like to take them all up in the interest of a lively debate. but that's only going to work because we're already late, if you really stick to the one minute. so i'm going to really cut after a minute now. please be prepared. spontaneous speech
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a later part-session. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the gender pay gap (2019/2870 ((rsp)).
i would also like to point out that the clock has been running backwards since today. but one thing remains the same: when it turns red, time is up.
i would like to welcome the six men who are going to speak in this debate.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the gender pay gap is also a modern myth, and the less you ask about it, the easier it is to get upset about it. there's a unadjusted and a adjusted pay gap. if we take the adjusted figures, the difference is between 2 and 7% for the younger people, those in their 20s and 30s, and even vice versa to the detriment of men. looking at the gender pay gap, we have to say that the cause lies in the politics of the political left, which still fails to value child-rearing and motherhood economically and to take them into account in the calculation of pensions, for example. we are seeing conservative governments like hungary, but also poland, whose family minister will be speaking here soon, go the way of taking into account the services that mothers provide when they care for children, so that the gender pay gap is decreasing, while precisely where women are seen as economic animals and family services are not paid, it is increasing, as in many western european countries. in this respect, it is a new ideological attack by the commission. it is necessary to protect family work and motherhood in order to promote women, not to have such phantom debates.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not everyone needs a home. housing is a human right. to deny a person a home is to deprive him of his dignity and of this human right, of his participation in society and of his future. so if the european union wants to act on its own fundamental rights, it must finally intervene and set itself the clear goal of ending homelessness by 2030! ending homelessness is a matter of political will. finland shows us this with its housing first strategy - in my eyes, a paradigm shift in how to deal with homeless people, how to see them. homelessness is never just self-blame. hundreds of thousands of people in germany are homeless. in finland, this exclusion is almost non-existent. in order to meet the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and to put pressure on member states, the commission needs to require all member states to have a national strategy to prevent and address homelessness. we need an eu framework that gives recommendations on preventive and reactive measures and a corresponding monitoring of the objectives through the european semester.
the commission has already done so. i'm so grateful to you that after i announced that we would be putting homelessness on the agenda, we're finally talking about this important issue. i've been on the road for the last three years. i have looked after the homeless in my home in the ruhr area and since i have been a member of this parliament for the last six months i have also looked after the homeless in brussels and strasbourg. and i can tell you what i experienced there is horrible. i can invite each of you to take a tour with me under the bridges of strasbourg. i can assure you that there is no romance under the bridges of strasbourg. there is misery and want. we are witnessing a humanitarian catastrophe in europe, which is now affecting three million people. homelessness is the plague of the 21st century, and it's not just that we have no remedy, we ignore this huge problem. i've seen people just walk over the homeless. they're not even noticed anymore. we have no solution, not even close. we must finally address this important, real problem.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. from 2006 to 2015, the year of merkel's illegal border opening, about a quarter of a million people were homeless in germany. since then, the number of cases has increased rapidly. it is estimated that soon there will be more than a million homeless people in germany. official statistics on this do not exist. it is also tragic that many children, women, young people and even whole families are forced to live on the streets. in my home city of munich, the same picture is emerging: in 2015, there were about 5,000 homeless people, today there are 10,000. the reasons: lack of affordable housing, the shrinking stock of social housing and - we cannot ignore this - the impact on the housing market of uncontrolled illegal immigration. munich is being built as if there were no tomorrow. and for whom? for people who can afford to pay 10,000 euros per square metre or more, and for illegal immigrants and their family members. the low-income worker is left behind, lives on the streets or has to move into the community. i therefore call on the commission to do its job and close the external borders before there is social unrest or worse!
i have to say, madam president, mr president, i would like to begin by wishing you every success in your presidency. you have put forward important priorities, including the priority 'a europe that connects'. i think it's important that we also understand in this context that there are always accusations against politicians that they say one thing and do another. i think we also have to look at how we connect what we do with what we say. i think we will and we can exchange different views on asylum policy here in the coming months, but i think we should have this important exchange on the basis of being honest with each other. i am concerned that we see here, again and again, on the one hand - i have seen this myself in croatia - that there is so much evidence of pushbacks, so much evidence of human rights violations at the external borders, but on the other hand we see that it is not said: "that is true, we will clarify it", but that it is said: "it is not happening". i believe that if you want a europe that protects, then we must have a europe that also protects human rights at the external borders, and i hope that you will be more successful in that too.
the commission has already done so. it is now some 28 years since croatia was recognised as an independent state by most eu countries, and now you are sitting here presiding. i would like to congratulate you on this. i must admit, though, i was a little disappointed in your program. you talk about turkey being a candidate country, you want to admit kosovo to the eu. i don't think your founding president and party founder franjo tuđman would have supported such a policy, i can't imagine that the majority of people in croatia support such a policy. i can only warn you that you are not here, as a first-class european, to feel that you have to pursue a policy which is contrary to the interests of your people. look at how many people are leaving croatia, how young people are leaving your country. and if you take franjo tuđman and his book 'croatia and the question of nationality in the present day', you will find better answers to the challenges facing europe than what the commission and this parliament are doing. the european union is currently the largest global economy with the lowest growth performance, it has the lowest investment power, but it wants to spend three trillion euros on climate change, which is not necessarily a technology of the future, even if the majority of people here think otherwise. the solution to the question of europe is more likely to be found in tuđman than in brussels. i was hoping that croatia would bring the spirit of the 1990s here, so that we could be partners in a regionalisation and a return to common sense. the great states, the supranational entities, are of no use to us. you, the children of yugoslavia, know this better than most of us here.
on behalf of the id group. – mr president, dear colleagues, especially those who are here for the last time, the eu-uk withdrawal agreement is a salutary example of belated political realism. the resolution debated today accepts this verdict. three points, however, deserve mention. first, the agreement states that in future, the parties may decide no longer to accept national identity cards without a biometric identification chip. such a rule is not unlawful, but there seems no obvious legal, economic or security reason for it. data protection and privacy were once subjects of fierce political debates. sadly in our rights-obsessed political climate today, such basic rights seem forgotten. second, the agreement freezes eu citizens’ rights as they are being interpreted on brexit day, while assigning future interpretation to the court of justice of the european union (cjeu). the cjeu is, in effect, asked to develop two parallel bodies of case—law: one for citizens’ rights within the eu27 and another for the uk based on pre-brexit eu law. how realistic, i ask, is this? finally, clause 18 of the resolution bemoans the uk government’s intention to end free movement of persons next year. the motion claims that all four freedoms are interlinked and that any comprehensive eu-uk trade deal should be conditional on the uk agreeing to generous free movement of persons rules. this demand is against the uk’s and the eu’s own interests. free trade agreements – indeed, most eu trade agreements – generally say nothing about free movement of persons. the eu in 2018 had a very large trade surplus with the uk. it’s therefore in the eu’s interests, just as britain’s, to negotiate a comprehensive trade deal. if this house is serious about citizens’ rights, then eu and uk citizens have a right that their economic interests be taken seriously by this house.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i wish to thank everyone in the commission who contributed to this proposal for a just transition fund (jtf), in particular commissioner ferreira and mr timmermans. i do sense the underlying spirit of a social just transition. people take centre stage and not companies, also a clear ‘no’ for subsidies for fossil fuels and nuclear power is just what the future needs. this proposal for a jtf is a good starting point to help particular regions to cope with the transition. however, what i’m missing in the proposal is a clear commitment to european level climate targets. the people and the economy need a clear date when the last european coal plant will get off the grid. we need commitments by every single region to individual coal phase-out plans. this must be a binding condition in order to receive support from the jtf, because funding a transition without the actual happening of a transition is pointless. and of course we have to talk about the money: eur 7.5 billion, seven years, 108 coal regions. this roughly comes down to 10 million per region, per year. is that enough to make the transition just for everyone? and in your calculation you then add co-financing from other cohesion funds. but this can be very dangerous because we don’t want to shift money from one region in need to another one in need. you then multiply the jtf with potential private investments, but mr timmermans please: we both know that there is not 100 billion in that just transition mechanism, but 7.5 billion. when street magicians try to trick their audience in such a way, we call that a sleight of hand. i’m sure the commission doesn’t want to be seen a street magicians. so please come clear and let us fight together for a better consistent funding from own eu resources, so that coal workers are not at the mercy of mff negotiations every seven years. we can support this proposal, though, if it stands for a clear and just transition with concrete phase-out plans for all coal regions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. one of the greatest challenges is to think together about environmental, economic and social policy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy is a very important one. the commission proposal for a just transition fund is right in principle. the poorest and most marginalised people in particular are facing the negative impacts of climate change. our job must be to protect these people and to provide them with social security. the proposed financial support, for example for retraining jobseekers, is welcome but will be far from sufficient. in order to tackle social exclusion comprehensively, we must also take account of people who are not active in the labour market. the goal of the sustainable development agenda is to end poverty in all its dimensions by 2030, not to make it worse. the path to a climate-neutral economy must be a joint, inclusive process that eliminates discrimination of any kind to the greatest extent possible. it is therefore essential that member states involve civil society and the social partners in the preparation, implementation and evaluation of their regional plans. it is also essential that we create social security mechanisms. it is the only way to prevent poverty and to help people in their transition. in this context, the european commission urgently needs to propose a framework directive on a minimum income.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for coming out today. i can understand that you're not entirely satisfied because your own government is abandoning its own people. but shouldn't you be in the uk? if you're gonna get a way out of here, why come back here? so i say, stay where you are.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the green deal is the most anti-social project in the history of the european union, and anyone who thinks that he can prevent the decline of coal regions with money, with structural aid, has learned nothing from history and from the past. so i happen to have a little bit of an idea, i worked in the mines in the ruhr area for the last 33 years before i joined the european parliament. there is no more mining, and my homeland, the ruhr, is now the poorhouse of germany. in my home town of gelsenkirchen, there is the highest unemployment rate in germany, there are the most poor children, and there are the most poor old people. the former coal regions of belgium, france and england are the same, and we have no reason to pretend otherwise. look at it! it will be the same in poland. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic states is not worsened. we're not just talking about mining. the motor of the german economy is the automobile industry, and it is estimated today by advisers to the federal government that 410,000 jobs will be lost! this is gonna break our backs. let's put an end to this madness!
madam president! (mike is off) ... must provide answers for the 50-year-old polish coal worker, for the 20-year-old danish climate activist, but also for the 26 million eu citizens who suffer from asthma. we welcome the just transition fund for coal regions. but otherwise, you haven't changed much. it's not enough to recycle the old numbers. they will remain at 25% for climate investment and the old draft financial framework of mr juncker and mr oettinger. let's not kid ourselves: they're relying mainly on private money, but private investment alone is not going to fund the green deal. companies like siemens or rwe will not ensure that 55-year-old coal workers have a future, or clean our air again, or stop trains in even small towns. we need public investment and we need more own resources for the eu budget. we want google and amazon to contribute to the eu budget, and we want carbon-intensive imports from other countries to be priced and taxed. let us think together about the multiannual financial framework, and then we will succeed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the commission for this proposal for the green deal and the just transition fund. we must finally tackle climate change with courage, optimism, with new ideas, with entrepreneurship, with innovation, and not with planned economies, bans and renunciations. because we're only going to do that if we actually move the economy in that direction. and to do that, we need to mobilise private capital, as we are supposed to. we will not succeed unless we make this a business model, unless we actually mobilize private investment. the european investment bank should be better equipped to do this. my country, germany, must finally see this and take care of it. i would also like to say something about what mr reil has just said about the ruhr area. but as a member of the bundestag from north rhine-westphalia, i also care about this: the ruhr area is a completely different situation from the one we are talking about. in the ruhr area, coal mining has not been economically viable for decades and has been carried on for decades by subsidies. that's where you should have done something different. we should have taken people into new jobs much earlier, into the future. and that's what needs to happen here, because we're not going to get around climate change. we really need to create the jobs of the future.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is no real climate action without justice. so it's good that you're thinking about this dimension. we need to take everyone into the future, invest in new careers; we need a climate-friendly and fair europe as soon as possible. but what you have so far is not enough. instead of taking new money into their hands, they want to redefine old means. they offer the prospect of investment without attaching it to the condition of the withdrawal of coal. this can't be! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but the german government must also take responsibility. she wants to do climate change without putting extra money into it. it's not gonna work. climate protection is not going to be a zero-toll proposition, and in other words, no new european high-speed trains, windmills or the cars of tomorrow are being developed and built. we need climate protection and justice, but to do that you and the german government must be more consistent.
mr president, the eu should use the dispute resolution mechanism to save the iran deal, and we urgently need to step up our efforts: mediate between the usa and iran, include other regional actors and help to further de—escalate the situation. this has been addressed already, so let me add another important aspect. the killing of soleimani threatened to overshadow the voices of those protesters who had been calling for political reforms in both iran and iraq for months. but since friday, they are back in the streets, despite mounting threats, again and they are even louder. and i also want to see eu action on this – to protect them from violence and killing, to fill the void that a withdrawal of us forces would leave in iraq and to use all diplomatic ways to send a clear message to the iranian regime. yes, we need to deal with the big power politics, but there will never be peace in the region if the voices of those in the streets are silenced once more.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. to kill people deliberately is simply barbaric. also the destruction of cultural sites or the threat thereof. the killing of general soleimani is a violation of international law, and it must be made very clear again. we europeans have gone from being experts in war to experts in peace, thanks in part to the united states. and we know from experience in europe that politics fails when it leaves values out. the international law, international organizations, agreements and treaties, especially the middle east conflict, and now the jcpoa, the nuclear agreement with iran, provide a positive, constructive response to make this better. what matters is not america first and not europe first, what matters is: we all together together and now. we have no time to forget what we have learned, we need peace rooms instead of war rooms, we need a common transatlantic european policy, one which combines forces and resources and is based on common values, or at least common objectives. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. this is true for europe, for the eu and for transatlantic relations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. i believe that this act is in violation of international law. and i think that we should not take on the role of a judge in the plenary; that is not our place here. that is something i have been asking myself in this discussion today. it is contrary to international law, and that is clearly the way it should be spelled.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the human rights situation is worsening globally. that is why it is important that we hold all those accountable who violate human rights. but it is even more important that we start using the leverage that we as the european union, with all its member states and its economic strengths, have. that we use it to protect all those fighting for democracy and human rights. why is it that trade deals can protect business but not humans? why do european companies still make a fortune selling weapons to warmongers? why can’t so many human rights defenders still not come to the eu if they need protection? and why is it that european companies still destroy the livelihoods of so many indigenous people, only to mine coal? mr borrell, with this report, we want to change those things. it is a strong report, carried by a very large majority in this house. i hope it will guide your work for the next five years. thank you, isabel wiseler-lima for your great work on this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 january 2020. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. the report on the eu's common foreign and security policy states that the eu's external action would have a direct impact on the well-being of eu citizens, as well as providing security and stability. but if we look at the situation in the mediterranean, we get a different impression. the so-called 'sea rescuers' who are helping criminal gangs to smuggle fish into the sea are not stopped. the eu commission often even pressures member states to allow boats to land. but this does not lead to greater security and stability in europe. on the contrary, it is causing more and more people to embark on the perilous journey across the mediterranean. and it leads to more and more illegal mass migration, which poses unsolvable challenges to our nation-states and especially our communities. the same is true of the safe harbor initiative, which aims to oblige municipalities to take in illegal immigrants. but such initiatives are the wrong incentive. they send the wrong signal and make sure that more people are in need, not less.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr mcallister, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy (2019/2136 (ini)) (a9-0054/2019) and by mr danjean, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (2019/2135 (ini)) (a9-0052/2019).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the situation in the middle east is making it clear to us once again that more arms do not make a region safer, and what we need above all is mediation, disarmament and prevention. but unfortunately we find little of this in mr danjean's report on the csdp. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. and with european arms export policy, which is partly responsible for the build-up, everything can allegedly remain as it is. instead, the report repeatedly calls for military spending to be increased to 2% of gdp. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but i would like to say that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, because the situation in the middle east is very serious. we therefore acknowledge mr danjean's attempts at mediation, but we will vote against the report if our substantive amendments are not adopted tomorrow.
i have to say, madam president, pesco, military mobility, armored roads, combat troops of all kinds and the european defence fund are just some of the buzzwords. the eu is now expected to cut back on social and regional aid projects in order to pour billions into the arms lobby. they are in breach of european law, because article 41 (2) prohibits spending from the eu budget on military action. yes, colleagues, it is true! the world political situation is fragile, and there are numerous conflicts. but to mention these in the report without mentioning the role of the eu and the member states is hypocritical. the eu's economic policy, trade policy and the growing number of arms exports from the member states are also fuelling these conflicts in the world. if you are serious about peace and democracy, then you must put an end to arms exports all over the world, and then you must put an end to this insane arms race. the european union must not be reduced to a military union, but must defend and extend disarmament treaties. that would be sustainable security policy, not what you're doing. it's more of a fire hazard.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is currently a fragile ceasefire in libya, and a serious political solution is indeed uncertain. in 2011, nato bombed libya and toppled the dictator gaddafi. the result was total chaos, a brutal civil war and, since then, essentially a proxy war. this nato war now has multiple actors in libya. in addition to regional powers, almost all the major powers are involved. they're all about oil and gas and geopolitics and spheres of influence and power. that is the bitter truth. but for the people there, war means death, suffering and misery. and what does the eu care about? what is mr borrell talking about? mostly about refugee protection! most eu countries are working with the sarraj government, which is also working with the so-called libyan coastguard militias to keep more and more refugees out of the european union. this has to stop! we must now stop arms exports to all parties to the conflict in libya, and all external powers must withdraw. this would be a contribution to a lasting peace in libya. the people there need peace, not further escalation. war and arms spirales will not bring peace - neither in libya nor anywhere else.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank mr borrell for his performance and for his efforts to achieve peace in libya. i don't think anyone thinks that it's easy to secure peace in libya, but i do believe that we can do more, even as the war in libya rages on. since 2014, 32,638 people have drowned in the mediterranean, and i always wonder what we would be missing if those people were still alive. i've been to sea rescue in the mediterranean myself, and when you talk to the people who are being rescued there, you realize that in libya, they're just not treated like human beings. it is, of course, completely inhuman that we in europe should be helping to bring back directly into the war zone those people who are fleeing the war at the risk of their lives. i wonder why we as european states have sent more patrol boats to libyan militias than rescue boats to the mediterranean. i think we are humiliating ourselves by having an important discussion here, but not doing what is obviously possible and at least saving the people from drowning, fleeing from the war, from torture, from the detention camps in libya. i believe we could evacuate more people, we could also provide more rescue at sea in the mediterranean, and i actually believe that the european idea is that we should do just that.
i have to say, madam president, the deployment of the armed forces in libya is the next clever move of erdoğan in the blackmail game with the eu after the refugee deal. this will further consolidate its already very strong position as a gatekeeper of europe. and let 's face it . we are not the ones who are currently in control of the migration crisis, who are deciding the escape routes via the balkan route. this is erdoğan, this is turkey. it determines the extent of illegal mass immigration. erdoğan has to make a very slight threat of the next wave of refugees, and we'll be tracking it. but now a new dimension has been reached. now turkey wants to use libya to gain control of the african country from which most illegal migrants start their journey to europe. the consequence: erdoğan has europe in his stranglehold, we are even more vulnerable to blackmail. we must finally use our economic and military strength. we must continue to play this game as equals. the eu must therefore do everything in its power to end turkey's intervention in libya, to end the refugee deal and finally to take over border protection.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think this debate that we’re having today here is the absolute best going away present for nigel farage. for his last plenary, what better idea than to dedicate the prime slot of the week to this conference, what i think is a bit his worst nightmare. so it’s a shame that he hasn’t joined us here today. he would call this the federalist plot, but it’s happening right here in the open. it’s a public debate. it’s a democratic process, and not for some old ideology but because solidarity is stronger than hatred and because cooperation is stronger than nationalism. while nigel and the band of lying brexiteers are driving the uk over the cliff edge, we start a much needed debate on the next steps of european integration, a debate that will lead to a stronger and a more democratic union and because we think what is needed in a time of climate crisis, of large corporations not paying their taxes, of being squished between a less reliable united states and an ever-stronger china, is not small mindedness, is not national selfishness. we have to unite. we have to cooperate because otherwise we perish, small and alone. the big challenges of our time we can only face as europeans, so the proposals that the european parliament is putting forward today are strong, based on the good examples that we have seen in ireland, the citizens’ assemblies. our ambition is to have a grand debate with citizens from all across the european union, with national parliaments, with the eu institutions. i have to say to my colleagues from the social democrats and the conservatives that it’s not enough to also bring the social partners, business europe, to bring european trade unions to the table, but we also have to include european ngos in in this debate as well. i know there are risks in this project – having this debate in 24 languages, possibly not breaking out of the brussels bubble, maybe not delivering the kind of reforms that citizens expect from us, but i think the worst thing we could do is to not even try. so we have seen in the euro and in the migration crisis that we always get stuck when integration is done only half way. so i think the answer that we have to deliver, is that we give the european union the tools and the competence to actually address the major challenges of our time. let’s stop letting populists and eurosceptics dominate the debate on european integration. let’s start building a stronger and truly united europe today, and let’s take another step towards a european federal republic.
i have to say, madam president, the last few years have been marked by debates on the crisis, on brexit, by the increasing voices of eurosceptics and right-wing populists - not just in this house. the increase in the european elections in may last year was a first step out of this negative spiral. the high turnout of the citizens has shown that they are interested in europe, that they care about europe. but they also expressed their expectations of a europe capable of action. this turnout was not automatic, but broad alliances, an active civil society helped make this election different from the other european elections. the citizens want a union that can act, an eu that protects them and empowers them. that is why it is important that we look forward with this conference, that we dare to take a step forward. but we can only do that if we do it right, if we do it right and if we do it with courage. that is why this conference cannot be a routine affair, not business as usual. we must have the courage to step outside our comfort zone. we need to go where the people are, where the people are who feel left out. it is also important to move from the capital cities to the rural areas, to the workers, the unemployed, the young, those who are critical of europe, for whom europe is not necessarily an important project. it is therefore important that citizens have a direct say from the outset, rather than having to wait until the end to say yes or no when everything has been done. that's why we made it clear: we see this conference on the future of europe as a great opportunity. we have an institutional plenary, where representatives of civil society are also represented, with the european economic and social committee as the house of civil society, but also the committee of the regions. because we need the mayors, we need the councillors, if we really want to take these debates to the people. so i am happy and i hope and i plead that we have the courage to leave the beaten track and to try something new - together - to make europe more democratic, more social and more capable of action.
blue-card question. – mr verhofstadt, you said that you want to enable a bottom—up approach. so, there are some rumours going on that certain parties already agreed on who should be leading the conference and your name was mentioned on that as well, so i wanted to know from you, presented right now here, that those rumours are not true and that the conference itself should decide on who leads the conference.
blue-card answer. – it seems to be a good idea to have a democratic process during this. let’s consult all the citizens in europe like we did during the elections. that seems to me the best thing to do. maybe we can ask mr sassoli to organise that procedure and maybe i’m a candidate to do that. to our british friends, i want to say on nord stream – that is a good point that has been made, but nord stream is proof of what? it is proof of a lack of european union, it is proof of the fact that a european energy community does not exist in europe. so if really those people, like those in the brexit party, are anxious about nord stream, well, they should create the energy community we desperately need and as fast as possible, colleagues.
madam president, in 2000, the eu launched its lisbon agenda to make the eu ‘the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010’. as 2010 was approaching references to the agenda were expunged from eu websites and the plan was renamed the europe 2020 strategy. 2020 has arrived and the most competitive and dynamic knowledge economy, maybe as a moral champion of the world, but it also enjoys the highest consumer income and corporate taxes in the developed world, high unemployment and the lowest growth apart from japan. for the most integrated countries of the eurozone, economic data are even worse than for the more sensible non-euro eu members. the commission president now proposes a conference on the future of europe to make the eu more democratic. she mentions an economy for the people. yet also proposes more taxes and an eu green deal for eur one trillion plus, when eu influence on world climate is minimal. in the name of europe’s way of life, she’s advocating more non-european immigration to make europe less european by the day. eu democracy is democracy, neither for nor by the european peoples. sigmund freud spoke of ‘flucht in die krankheit’ or ‘escape into illness’ to describe a neurotic avoidance of an unsatisfactory reality. rather than face the struggle to regain health, the neurotic patient is secretly desiring to remain ill. is there a better diagnosis of the eu today? faced with a menacing economic truth, the eu commission is reaching for a narcotic overdose of eu integration to take an extended holiday from reality.
madam president! the future of europe is not the same as the future of the european union. europe existed before the union - we should remember this - and it will probably continue to exist even if the union ceases to exist or changes into some other form of political cooperation between the european nations. but there is no doubt that this difference should be taken into account when thinking about the future of both the union and europe. this debate is necessary because, on the one hand, there are increasing voices from prominent thinkers, both conservative and left-wing, who are saying that european civilization is in a critical, even decadent, state. on the other hand, we feel that the european union also needs reform. we are in favour of an open, honest debate, which does not exclude those with a different opinion, for example those opposed to further integration, and which does not prejudge the direction of the proposed changes. we cannot divide the citizens of europe into good and bad europeans, as some of my colleagues do when they speak of a european republic. we also agree that citizens should be involved in the debate on the future of the european union, but we know that there is no single european public sphere, and that this should be done at national level. we also believe that citizens' discussions cannot replace parliamentary debates and should only be in the nature of public consultation. we also recall that the treaties can only be amended in accordance with article 48 of the treaty on european union.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has given the european parliament a leading role in this space for debate, which is designed to last two years. that's good! and with today's resolution, parliament is making a concrete proposal to the council, the commission and the european public on the approach, objectives, forms and methods of how, together with all citizens, european policy can be redefined to meet so many of the challenges of the future as well as everyday problems. after years of painful crisis experience and attempts to cope, we must decide together what kind of eu we want and need, what needs to be changed or reworked. i think it is very important and right that parliament's core approach is to put the sovereign, the citizen, at the centre of the conference from the outset and to link representative democracy and citizen participation in determining the future framework for eu policy in a very innovative way in a permanent dialogue process. yes, a conference on the future of the eu is first and foremost about giving citizens a voice in their wishes, expectations and demands for the eu. they should decide for themselves which issues need to be addressed in order to eliminate democratic deficits, develop new political strategies and test the suitability of policies at eu and national level. why are you afraid of citizens who want to create a solidarity between the european continent? we need transparency and the use of today's modern means of communication. that is why the conference will have to go beyond the convention.
madam president, how often do you speak of the future of europe by identifying it with the future of the european union, a union of monopolies, which some people once portrayed as eternal, as law-abiding? today we are talking about brexit, decentralisation and contradictions, while in your own papers you are worried about the anaemic capitalist recovery. you are waging a campaign of brainwashing, provocative embellishment of the european union, manipulation and anti-communism, with a high price, in an attempt to stop the growing mistrust and mistrust of the peoples and the youth of europe. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the commission's proposals. contrary to what the gue group, which is a signatory to the resolution, claims, the european union is not changing, nor, as the far right claims, making mistakes. it serves the exploitative system, it is opposed to the interests of the working people, it is a constant underminer of the defence of borders and sovereign rights. the peoples can shape their own future by disengaging from the european union, with the people in power, for the europe of socialism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not the product of chance, but a peace project in the face of the horrors of war. we are the first generation that has not suffered war and we are a generation that has forgotten war. the european union today is a peace process that has come to a standstill and is beginning to reverse. europe was a dream, but today it is an unsatisfactory reality. we should rebuild the dream, but we live in times when politicians have no legitimacy to dream. and politicians these days are left with empty words and slogans. for example, we distinguish between ourselves and the citizens in order to give the impression that we are close to the people, when the citizens are the ones who elected us, when we have been talking to the citizens during the election campaign, when we are citizens ourselves and, if not, what are we doing in this parliament? citizens' assemblies parallel to parliaments only delegitimize parliaments. europe does not need politicians who dream. europe needs politicians who believe. politicians who believe in a european union without nationalism, without borders, without discrimination; who believe that europe is not just the european council; who believe that together we are better; who believe in a federal europe. today we decide how we're going to work, but we still have to decide where we're going, and that's what really matters. the europe we believe in, not the europe we dream of. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card question. – dear colleague, you said that you don’t want the eu parliament to be delegitimised by parliament representation. do you know the concept of a fundamental treaty of society as laid out by mr rousseau the idea that citizens will agree on the kind of government that they want. and do you think that this idea is a threat to representative institutions or would you rather agree that we are elected to represent citizens when they want us to?
i have to say, madam president, young people are the future of europe. i am sure you will agree with what i said more than once during the campaign. and now we can show how serious we really are. the conference on the future of europe is also a conference on the future of the next generation. this next generation needs to be able to speak up. i would also like to see respect for the youth forums as much as for the citizens' assemblies. this is also a greeting to the ecr colleagues who would like to see their amendments abolishing youth participation. i also expect respect from this house and from the national parliaments. above all, send young meps, because only by involving young people at all levels of the conference will we show that we take their views seriously, that we respect their opinions and that they can actively shape their own future in europe.
madam president, after listening to this debate, i am even happier that we have a strong resolution in this house, which is basically supporting the future of europe. i just want to mention a few points that have been mentioned already to showcase that. we do recognise the problems – and because we recognise the problems, we’re trying to find solutions, and the problems as mr verhofstadt has said and also ms o’brien and others, lie in all the challenges we face with migration, with our social standards, and so on. we cannot address them fully because we are currently blocked in our solutions. that is why we need this conference to go into the future. the second question about the national interest. yes, currently, we can’t defend our national interests because national interests are european interests and that is i think important to understand. the majority of this house is for the future, and the future can only be obtained if we find a common future for europe together and that means to have a common vision together that is shared with the citizens, and i hope that with this conference we can go down this path. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – ms cseh, there are two elements that we can use to make sure that this doesn’t end up as a talking shop. the first one is that we actually follow up on the outcomes of this debate, so that we have treaty changes, so that we have procedural changes, so that we go into the regular processes here in this house, and in the other institutions and follow up. the second one is that we don’t only go bottom up as mr verhofstad said, but that we also play back our results to the citizens and say, ‘do you agree? do you think these are good results?’ and only via this accountability, i think will we be able to hold all of us and all politicians accountable.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to avoid creating a legend, which two speakers from your group have now falsely put in the chamber: they claim that you have been excluded from the wording of this resolution. that's not true, man. it was your wish to retire. everyone else was sorry. we would like to see an intergroup resolution across all the political groups. they've withdrawn. we didn't rule anyone out. you know that?
madam president, this two-year conference can be something entirely different from just a podium for popular or populist politicians. we have a chance to initiate an openm fully inclusive debate on europe and its future. it can be a debate of equals that would lead to a permanent mechanism of dialogue on europe. independently of its final outcome, this conference is a political process, it can have its own value added: renewing european liberal democracy, keeping european unity, advancing european citizenship, enhancing the feelings of ownership of europe among our citizens. such an unprecedented open dialogue can make europe grow as a democracy caring, with reciprocity, about its citizens. i see this conference also as a follow—up to what was new in the last european elections. as never before, the 2019 elections generated a common european narrative instead of the traditional separate 28 national stories. these elections proved that our citizens expect more from europe than in the past. we know that citizens cannot just be offered the option to listen to what we politicians and institutions have to say about globalisation, climate neutrality, green policies, migration, digitalisation, social justice, competitiveness, and so on. they want to participate in responding to challenges, to address them jointly and to tailor these responses to their taste, needs and dreams. we should use this opportunity to learn how to be in listening mode. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must recognize that the proposal to hold a conference has come out of the crisis in which the european union finds itself and we must all make an analysis. have politicians done all they can to talk to the citizens? maybe if we did more, politicians, that yes, i believe in representative democracy, we represent the citizens, but we met as much as we should have with the citizens to consult them when we vote, when we make decisions on their behalf? and in management, when one measure fails, you have to find another measure, and that's actually what this conference is about. obviously we have to be careful how we integrate this conference, this new body, this platform that wants to bring the citizen closer to us with national constitutions, with national parliaments. the structure is laid out in the conference proposal; it's important to implement, it's important not to do new bureaucracy, new cost and to look at the effects. yes, i will support this resolution and i think we should all support it because it is, in fact, a mechanism for improving communication with citizens.
madam president, just because the task is difficult does not mean that we should not launch this conference. no, it is because the engine of european integration is broken that collective introspection is important. let's be clear, the way we operate is gonna take us straight to the second division. this conference will be an opportunity to agree on a collective diagnosis, to ask ourselves why we are paralysed, to coordinate the efforts of citizens who want to help shape their future, to give a voice to the disenchanted and also to give a voice to young people. in fact, i would advise those who lack the arguments and motivation for this conference to take inspiration from the messages coming from young britons who are disappointed with brexit.
i have to say, madam president, how do we ensure that eu policy is made for the majority of citizens and not for corporations? how do we contain lobbying? how can europeans take the helm themselves, if necessary, through eu-wide referendums and direct democracy? to regain the trust of citizens in the eu and to protect europe from a disintegration or a gradual takeover by nationalists, as we have heard today, we need a fundamental reform, a new start of the eu. i hope that this conference on the future of europe will be able to bring about some minor improvements. but to expect representatives of the eu institutions to reform themselves is like asking frogs how to drain a swamp. let us therefore have the courage and confidence of our citizens to appoint a directly elected citizens' convention to draft a new eu constitution and let europeans themselves decide in a europe-wide referendum on the eu they want.
blue-card question. – ms charanzová, i am very happy that you mentioned meaningful citizen participation again, and so my question – because this has been discussed a lot here – is how would you see meaningful citizen participation with the maximum amount of people? how would you organise that?
madam president, sorry, but i have to challenge your decision on the blue cards, because we have one hour in between the end of this debate and the next debate. i see your point that you have to discuss in the chamber, but you have enough presidents to do that without one, and i think that you can continue this debate. we have seen so far that this debate really lived through the usage of blue cards. therefore, i want to challenge your decision on discarding the debate by taking a decision in this plenary to continue with the usage of the blue-card system. (applause)
madam president, i think we have seen so far in this debate that we do face a crisis in europe, and i think we have seen not just after the election, but already before, that there are two possibilities. do we want less europe or more? the far right have so far expressed their vision of this, but we, with a big majority of people who said we want more europe, have won this election. so therefore, we now need to decide: how much more europe do we want? and i think this question should be answered by the public, by everyone, by sitting together and answering this question. and yes, the answer to this question can be that we want less, that the people want less europe. but i say let us take the risk, because so far, i know that we have the better arguments. we know that europe has brought unity of east and west, that it has brought freedom, that it has brought peace and prosperity. and so i see all the good arguments on our side, and i know that we will win this debate. talking of debate, let us continue to have a good debate in this plenary and make this the first european public sphere.
i have to say, madam president, the european union remains the guarantor of peace, freedom and prosperity on this continent. the achievements for the citizens are innumerable. but the eu is not perfect. it's a work in progress, it's constantly changing, and it has to. it must become more democratic, more social, more ecological, and above all it must overcome the distance that many people feel towards it. this biennial conference on the future of europe is an opportunity. the key will be to ensure that citizens are not only heard, but also able to make decisions that matter. we are aware of what this means and we are committed to it: a clear mandate for the conference to initiate legislative initiatives, including amendments to the treaties. this is why it is important that the conference produces clear results and that citizens are fully involved. it is only through full communication during and after the procedure and full transparency that trust can be built, and that is the task of parliament.
i have to say, madam president, for us greens too, the conference on the future of europe is a question of how we want to live in the future. the only way to find out how to balance ecological, social and economic concerns is to engage in a great deal of exchange with the citizens of europe. participation is at the heart of a sustainable and regenerative culture that we urgently need to limit climate change and stop biodiversity loss. for example, what should the mobility transition look like in practice, how should our diet look like, how can we change an economy so that it serves the common good? such transformation processes are profound and can only work if they are based on a broad democratic basis. i am therefore very pleased that parliament is issuing this invitation today. let's play! we want to shape europe together and we must make europe fit for the challenges of today and tomorrow. what kind of europe do we need for that? how do we want to live in the future?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the construction of europe has been and continues to be a constituent, open and transparent process at the service of the common destiny which all europeans share. ten years after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the holding of the conference provides us with a great opportunity to build directly with the citizens the future of europe through a participatory and representative dialogue at european, national, regional and local level. there are many ideas which we will be discussing, but i think that full respect by the council for the spitzenkandidat process, the right of legislative initiative of this parliament, of the european parliament, and the abolition of the right of veto of the states in the council, with the move to qualified majority, should be at the heart of the discussions. i hope that the european institutions will work together, and with the citizens, to achieve this with political courage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are more than member states. we're more than isolated people. it is clear that we are living in turbulent times, that we need better rules and that the big problems, the big challenges, are not national. they are transnational. and our opportunity is here, in the european union. that's why we have to look at the worst and the best since we walked together. but we cannot do that if we allow ourselves to be blinded by the poison of national populisms. of course, we have something to learn from brexit: populism. of course we have to learn from ultra-nationalism. we were told here yesterday that we want a european mechanism of self-determination. to balkanize us, to blind us to the truth. so that he can destroy europe. we need to be strong, indeed. we need to put citizens at the center of the system and we need to make artificial intelligence human. we need, perhaps, to be so strong that we can reach a new convention. we need european citizenship, not the destruction of europe. no more borders.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this fine debate has shown that, ten years after the treaty of lisbon, we need a reform of the treaties. the main objective of this conference on the future of europe must be to strengthen the capacity of europeans to act. and then we saw in the debate that we have not yet found the right way in this supranational body to organise the democratic process. i thought the debate we had today was very nice. it was about direct democratic elements, it was about parliamentary democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. parliament can get smarter through this conference, and we should involve the people. but in the end, we learned in europe after 300 years that parliamentary representative democracy is the best way to organize democracy. i believe that, whatever the outcome of the conference, it is important that we create a european public and that this parliament must be the platform for that public. that is why an intergroup has written a letter today - also to you, madam president - asking us to reform this plenary debate. we should be in the front as speakers, looking at each other, sitting down here, that we have a lively debate that is also transmitted in the media.
mr president, i would like to table an oral amendment to replace strasbourg by brussels. this is where most of the eu institutions are located, and i think it is important to send a strong signal to citizens that they are being taken seriously and that at the end of the citizens' forum a meeting will take place in brussels and not in strasbourg.
i have to say, madam president, we do not agree with everything that has been adopted and decided today in the green deal resolution. we have not, however, wanted to reject this resolution, because we, as directly elected representatives of the european union, must be particularly concerned with questions of climate and environmental protection. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in all areas organized in the carbon trading system we will achieve the intermediate targets, in all areas not organized in the carbon trading system we will not achieve the targets. we have a very, very valuable tool here, and we think that the carbon trading should be extended to the areas of both heating and transport.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i voted against the report because i am opposed to the accession of the western balkan countries to the eu on principle. the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu and the resulting freedom of movement have already had a devastating impact on my home in the ruhr area. this freedom of movement has brought us crime, prostitution, black labor and social fraud. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not the only one who says that, but so do the spd mayors of duisburg, gelsenkirchen and dortmund. what we need is less freedom of movement, not more freedom of movement.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am the vice-president of the house of european history. places like this are becoming increasingly important in an age when the lessons of history are not only forgotten, but distorted, and vicious reenactments of history are not just commonplace on internet forums. i would therefore like to draw your attention to a subject which is very close to my heart, namely anti-semitism, on the occasion of the commemoration of the second world war. a distorted view of jewish history made possible the persecution and cruel murder of six million jews. now, 75 years later, such distortions are finding their way back into our society in the form of conspiracy theories. the bds movement is reminiscent of the "do not buy from jews" signs with the boycott of jewish goods. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. to detect even disguised anti-semitism, we need training. this is what we learn from the actions of officials, especially judges, in the second world war. let us therefore work together as parliament, as the commission and as the council to enforce the application of the code of conduct against illegal hate speech on the internet and the definition of anti-semitism by the international holocaust remembrance alliance.
i have to say, madam president, anyone who knows a little bit of history knows that putin's statements were historically wrong and that poles have every right to be outraged about this. but i still think that's not a debate that belongs here. this is a debate for historians and cartoonists. it is not a debate for politicians, many of whom, especially among the greens and the left, who unfortunately are not here today, have not even successfully completed their history studies. politicians are elected - and i see many people up there who probably don't deserve to be debated about history - politicians are elected to shape the future, not to debate the past, although that's always interesting. we should not react like the pavlovian dog to every provocation by putin and start debates here in the european parliament about his statements. as i said, i understand the outrage of the poles, but the european parliament is the wrong forum for such historical debates.
i have to say, madam president, no more fascism, no more war! that was the buchenwald oath. we on the left feel obliged to do so. but racists and fascists who threaten life, saber-rattling, the arms race and war are again a bitter reality. we know from our human history the power of fascism, the brutality of a world war and the importance of antifascist resistance. but last september the majority in this house thought that hitler germany was the same as the soviet union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he's not gonna learn from history, and he's gonna make the same mistakes over and over again. no, ladies and gentlemen, the glorious struggle of the red army has freed us from the darkest of history. if you don't know history, you can't shape your future. my thanks go to the red army, my thanks go to the resistance fighters, and my thanks go to all the allied allies who have made our free future possible today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the advocate general of the european court of justice just yesterday asked once again for hungary to be convicted, and this is certainly a neutral body, as perhaps mrs járóka will also acknowledge. this time, because orbán's law banning ngos violates the european charter of fundamental rights. it is good that we have the european court of justice at this time, because, let us be honest, the article 7 procedure against both poland and hungary is at an impasse. when the fathers of the european union invented this process, they did not think it possible that two member states of the european union would deviate from the union's fundamental principles and values. that is exactly what has happened, and not just since yesterday, and, mr metsola, no, the epp has not always been consistently on the side of the rule of law, but particularly when it came to the case of hungary, the epp has for years refused to find the clear words it needed. we have the european court of justice, but we cannot rely on it. we need more measures, and above all we need to prevent these regimes from buying the support of their people with european subsidies. that is why we must find clear rules and financial sanctions in the next multiannual financial framework. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. but it is also true that the people are not the government. there are plenty of good democrats in hungary, and there are many, many european friends. we must help them, we must stand by them, and we must give them a platform here.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's very important in debate that we distinguish between facts and political claims. and so it would be very important in such a speech to mention concrete facts and concrete examples, which are based on the rule of law and are supported by evidence. this is very important. do you agree with me?
blue-card question. – mr dzhambazki, do you agree with me that it is more the way that autocratic or totalitarian dictators work to try to get all the institutions in one country under your control, to have no one who is of a different opinion to yourself? and do you agree that that is exactly what is happening in hungary?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am a practicing lawyer in germany, and of course the judges are appointed by the ministry of justice. separation of powers means that the judge is free to decide on the individual case. but it is not for the sake of god that the judges choose themselves who becomes a judge, what the rules of procedure of the courts are, etc. it is a polish peculiarity that the judges themselves appoint their colleagues, their presidents and their successors. and it is the old practice, now outdated, that is eroding the separation of powers. the division of powers means that the judge is bound by the law, but it does not mean that he appoints himself, promotes himself and even checks himself whether he follows the rules. that's the difference. i am therefore very much impressed by the demand made here in the name of the separation of powers to maintain this very break in the separation of powers by the old rule. and i hope the polish government holds out.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yesterday, the eu commission asked the european court of justice to immediately suspend the pis-controlled disciplinary chamber for judges an important step. i hope that the commission will act with the same determination and, above all, with the same speed once the latest anti-rule of law law law has been adopted. that's being debated in the senate today. in the senate, by the way, the pis lost its majority in the last election. and then you see what happens in those regimes when you lose power: the senate president has been the subject of a smear campaign ever since. thousands of people, especially lawyers, took to the streets this weekend - brave people. and here we have very brave people - judges and prosecutors - who have come here. i hope i have understood mrs szydło correctly, that those people who have come here as a result of speaking to us here will not face any consequences if they return to poland. i'll take your word for it. i am curious to see what you have to say about the many judges who are already suffering the consequences of applying european law, for example. what is happening in poland is highly dramatic. it is nothing less than an attack on the foundations of the european union. the government wants to prohibit judges from applying european law. and if we are talking about communism here, why did you nominate someone for the constitutional court - stanisław piotrowicz - who in the 1980s, as a public prosecutor in communism, prosecuted oppositionists at the time? you'll have to explain that to me, too.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the situation in the czech republic is worrying. one of the richest people in the czech republic, andrej babiš, decides the politics of this country, and at the same time he votes in the european council on the agricultural and structural policies that made him rich. this is what is classically called a conflict of interest. but we should not be fooled. mr babiš is not the cause of the problem, he is just a symptom. still, he's paralyzing the country, he's got his fingers in everything. in addition to politics, it is gradually taking over the media and a number of economic sectors. in addition, it has strong economic interests in other eu countries, from hungary to slovakia to germany. however, he is just one of many oligarchs who have become rich thanks to eu funds. the shocking thing is that we don't even know exactly how much babiš and other oligarchs benefit from the budget of the european union. the commission and the member states do not have enough information to trace exactly where the money from the agricultural budget or the structural funds actually goes. we urgently need more transparency. we need a new system to stop this abuse and misallocation of eu subsidies. without clear rules on conflicts of interest, without rules on disclosure of ownership and without strong conditionality, we will keep this corrupt system alive. but even without political pressure to untangle the tangled webs of corporate entanglements in the land market and to bring to light the real landowners behind it, we will not solve this problem. the democratization and the end of communism in many countries has led to enormous changes in land ownership, and unfortunately it turns out that often it's not the people who actually work in the agricultural sector who benefit most from the privatizations, but it's the economic and political elite. she made the rules, and she ended up using state property. and the eu is making this historic injustice worse because in these countries a large part of the payments go to a very small number of landowners and not to those whose existence should be sustained by the agricultural subsidies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful, also to the commission, for its very restrained position on these allegations and these questions arising in the babiš case, where various investigations are taking place. we should wait for the results of this investigation before we make any preconceptions. if we do not do this, we will automatically be accused of having a debate on envy, and we do not want that. we also do not want to be annoyed that mr babiš may raise some contrary points, that he disagrees with the eu on border security, migration, cutting red tape or keeping the czech crown. we should really stay neutral on this whole thing and wait for the investigation. we should at most ask ourselves whether the rules we have set ourselves are still appropriate or whether we should perhaps even abolish these subsidies altogether.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. who among us does not want this: clean air, clean rivers, an untouched environment and the protection of native flora and fauna? i shall be with you immediately to contribute in a reasonable way to the appropriate framework. of course, there are bound to be some heated discussions about this. i think that man is part of our ecosystem, whereas many green-left demands make you wonder whether the idea that humanity would be much better off without it was not there. i am driven by a more fundamental idea: environmental protection was yesterday, today it is rather hypocritically saving the climate with fatal consequences for the environment, which does not matter much to the climate doomsday disciples. the fact that the climate religion, landscape protection and, above all, a lot of forest land are being sacrificed for wind turbines, greta's troops respond with astonishing ecological equanimity. the fact that many areas are permanently sealed does not stop them from calling for better certification of products without deforestation. can i laugh? on the one hand, the overuse of the seas is lamented, and coastal regions are affected, while on the other hand the green deal makes a mockery of the importance of the seas for the construction of offshore wind turbines. and those who once did not prevent a ban on cadmium and lead in solar panels or sulphur hexafluoride are now mocking the use of pesticides and are the same ones who do not at least blink when the mining of rare earths - in batteries, for example - uses highly radioactive thorium and other toxic waste products in china, and instead lament in an old-fashioned way the alleged impacts on biodiversity of climate change. i would like to remind you that evolution and the alteration of the biosphere have always been the rule, not the exception. if we let these political puppets, who claim to be the masters of pure doctrine, get in the way, we are turning the goat into a gardener. i'm not doing that. (the speaker rejects a question on the 'blue card' procedure by sarah wiemer)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i brought something here: this is the report 'the state and outlook of europe's environment'. it is also available online, and of course in all eu languages. it compiles the data of the last five years collected by the european environment agency on the environment in europe. i'll tell you right now, it doesn't look good. our natural resources are not in good shape. what is particularly worrying is that the number of species is declining. i haven't seen a parrot in a long time, and you rarely hear a lark. the key message of this report is that we must stop looking at biodiversity and conservation as separate policy areas and give a few million to support them while at the same time throwing billions into economies that destroy nature. i am therefore glad that this parliament will adopt a strong resolution on biodiversity tomorrow, which contains many important points. i hope that these principles will be reflected when we talk about the common agricultural policy or when we talk about the budget. because we need these funds to improve the state of the environment in europe.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already said a great deal, but not everyone has said it yet, and i do not want to say too much, because the facts are on the table. the analysis is clear, i think, and something has to change here. but i do not think it is possible for the authority concerned to define the rules by which such cases are to be resolved. these rules must be adopted by the appropriate institutions here, namely the council, parliament and the commission. we have to pull together to stop these problems from arising. in the end, let's be honest, it's like this: even if we make a lot of rules here - which costs a lot of money on the one hand, as mr ferber has pointed out, and also a lot of time and energy - the problem is that if the people concerned do not have the sense that the whole thing has a "taste", as we say in baden-württemberg, where i come from. then we won't find any solutions here. such stories, such transitions from the civil service to the private sector, must be solved by the individuals themselves. we cannot stand by and watch these things spread here, wherever you are, in parliament or in these bodies. so i ask for more sensitivity, also for more personal concern, that such things do not happen anymore.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we're in a bit of a pickle here. on the one hand, all the concerns raised against the shift from the european institutions to the private sector are justified, they rightly anger the public. secondly, we do not want to see no way out of public office. public offices are granted for a time. we need to bring talented people from the private sector into the institutions, and conversely, these people need to know that this is not a trap for them, but that there is also a possibility that after they have served, they can return to other tasks. that is to say, problems are pre-programmed, and the way to deal with them cannot be to create such an overregulation that these people will not come. because that's bad for us, because we need the expertise. the solution is therefore, as my colleague mr kuhs has already said, to strengthen personal concern by bringing cases of obvious abuse to the attention of the public. the corrective for political misconduct is a critical public, but not the hundredth or thousandth regulatory authority.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in may this year there are elections, and as is so often the case, the situation in these countries becomes tense. however, the situation in burundi has been tense for several years. human and civil rights are trampled underfoot in burundi, oppositionists, journalists, human rights activists are arrested, tried, sometimes even murdered. we must not look the other way at this point, but we must speak up and defend these people. the specific cases have just been mentioned by mrs chowns and mrs arena. i do not want to repeat them here, but i would like to join the call for the charges against these arrested persons to be dropped immediately. they must be set free, and that without any conditions. this is the call which we in the european parliament should make loudly to burundi. the european parliament has a duty to protect human rights and to ensure that the rights of the individual are respected. that is why we are calling on burundi to release these people, they have done nothing wrong. we must maintain pressure on the burundian authorities. the international community must therefore stand strong and not relent in this pressure. and the burundian authorities must finally ensure that human rights are respected, that civil rights are respected, that free speech is possible and that free elections can take place in a secure democracy in may of this year.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank the members for the fact that we have been able to reach agreement on such a broadly agreed resolution in such a short time. i think it is important that we in parliament raise awareness of this humanitarian emergency. since the beginning of the boko haram insurgency, 36,000 people have been killed, the country now ranks third behind afghanistan and iraq in the international terrorism index, and in the north-east of the country alone, 2 million people have been displaced. seven million people in nigeria are in need of humanitarian aid, and i think it's important that we also say, yes, christians in nigeria are persecuted because of their religion. but i think we would do well to make it clear in our resolution - and we do - that there is no religious war in nigeria. it's about resource allocation, and we're also making clear that the climate crisis is already affecting living conditions, not just some day, that the climate crisis is already having a decisive impact on economic stability and on local conflicts. terrorist organisations find fertile ground where people have no prospects, little direction. we should also be clear: maybe we can do a little better to help out on the ground. i feel, and i think it can be made clear by the numbers, that our development policies on the ground are too often shaped by our own interests and not necessarily only by the interests of the nigerian people. it is therefore good that we also say in the resolution that local development cooperation should serve the objectives of poverty reduction and not any other objectives. we may want fewer people to flee nigeria, but i think it's reprehensible to pretend that we can simply seal off the borders in nigeria, build up pressure on the country. the correspondent, a dutch newspaper, recently gave a very detailed account of this. i think this resolution is important. it's also important that we focus increasingly on how we can help people on the ground to stop having to flee, rather than just preventing them from being able to flee.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have tabled a separate resolution because the attacks on christians in nigeria, in particular the beheadings on 26 december 2019, represent a barbaric and unspeakably vicious act of violence. the house is rightly happy to speak out on human rights violations, but when it comes to the systematic murder of christians, parliament seems to hesitate time and again to speak out. i therefore appeal to you to recognize and condemn these atrocities in the joint resolution and to recognize the urgency of action. we should talk about the horrors of christmas: attacks on christians in the name of islam. these murders must not be covered up by all sorts of other things. the condemnation of islamist terrorist actions against christian communities must be clearly stated. i repeat, these people were beheaded because they were christians. they were brutally and cruelly executed by members of a terrorist militia. i welcome a debate on the security situation in nigeria, but attention should be given to the plight of the threatened christian communities in nigeria and west africa.
madam president, we are all concerned about the situation in nigeria, the largest country in africa. i am thinking in particular of the deteriorating security situation and the widespread violence, which are leading to mass displacement of people and an increase in humanitarian needs. in 2014, boko haram abducted young girls and young women and subjected them to all kinds of sexual violence. this violence against women has increased and also targets women in border regions such as cameroon. for example, recently, nuns have been kidnapped and imprisoned. we condemn these religious and ethnic attacks. in addition, it is estimated that around 1 500 000 people are affected by the inability of humanitarian organisations to access large parts of the region. as a result, in hard-to-reach areas, 60% of children suffer from malnutrition. the european union must come together and find new ways of working with the nigerian government to enable the delivery of humanitarian aid, and above all to put an end to this violence against women and religious communities. what happened at christmas must never happen again. the european union must engage with the nigerian government to advance respect for humanitarian principles, to intensify dialogue with the authorities in order to put an end to these raids against the civilian population, and also to put an end to this sexual exploitation which has been going on for 10 years. we must demand respect for human rights and freedom of religion.
it is referring to article 10 [of the rules of procedure]. i will switch to german because i only have the german version.
members shall not disturb the order of the chamber and shall refrain from any inappropriate behaviour. they don't put up banners. the president has designed the flags as banners. we shall certainly discuss this at the next meeting. but for the moment, i would ask you to respect this presidential order as long as it is in effect.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. there is no discussion of presidential orders taking place here. if you want to challenge the president's order, you can do so, and it will be decided. but until then, i ask you to heed them.
another point of order but i will only take it when everyone has followed the order of the president. as long as that is not the case, we will not continue the discussion. (generalised applause) (chant from certain quarters ‘let him speak’)sorry, colleagues, but it is you who are not letting him speak because you are not following the order of the president. just do so and we will let him speak. there is no problem. there is another point of order from ms strugariu.
i have time. i have a lot of time. now, the point is not what is a banner and what is not a banner: the point is that if the president of this house comes to a decision, then this decision is to be obeyed as long as it is not taken back. it is as easy as that. keep calm, keep calm, it is thursday and everybody wants to go home, i understand that completely. i will now start with the vote.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
sorry, dear colleague, but do you have a point of order or an oral amendment? we’re not reopening the debate.
at which point of the resolution do you want to add which words? i am sorry but it is not an oral amendment and we will move on.
that concludes the vote.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i voted for the resolution. for 20 years now venezuela has suffered under this socialist dictatorship, and as in every other country, socialism has brought poverty and misery and, above all, lack of freedom. this has to stop! venezuela is a rich country, it has the largest oil reserves in the world, and yet 70 percent of all children there suffer from malnutrition, and three million venezuelans have fled. this has to stop! this country needs freedom and democracy.
mr president, on behalf of the greens, i wanted to make a point of order that regards the report on credentials. we have applied for amendments for this particular report in order to clarify the democratic situation here. the parliament has not done its duty regarding the young carers rights and it is not part of the report, and therefore we insist on our right to discuss this and to make it part of the report. this is our parliamentarian colleague, and the european court of justice has confirmed that, and we think that the honourable president did not follow his rights to consult the parliament regarding this. so let’s make this a discussion in this house, because it is our duty to follow up on the colleague and the solidarity with our colleagues, regardless of his political agenda.
madam president, on this holocaust remembrance day i would like to quote a great european, former german chancellor helmut schmidt, who said ‘rather debate a hundred hours in vain than shoot for one minute’. why do i say that here and now? because, yes, the european union is complicated, slow, sometimes non—transparent, but it is the closest we have come to what schmidt meant. for me, the european union is not only about trade and about finances – it is about values and it is about peace. my father is english. he was born in 1935, not far from a royal air force base and he loved, as a kid, to see the bombers rise into the sky. my mother is german, she was born in 1940 and she fled through the city of dresden, the day after it was bombed. so the image that the bombers my father cherished almost killed my mother is something that brought me into politics in the first place. it will always be this image that keeps me going and that will keep me being a bridge between these two countries, a ‘bridge over troubled water’ at the moment, as art garfunkel would say. it is so sad to see you leaving, but you still have friends in this house. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think it is right that much of the health sector is regulated by the nation states. but there are some areas where europe needs to be stronger, particularly in the area of medicines and hygiene. i have just spoken to professor kremsner of the university of tübingen - where i studied medicine - and he confirmed to me that at european level a great deal is indeed going well, but not everything is perfect. commissioner kyriakides has made two points which i should like to stress. firstly, we must strengthen the ecdc - financially but also with its competences. compared to the american cdc, the ecdc is in poverty. and the second is that in emergencies, the approval of medicines must be less bureaucratic. to do this, we want to see not just phase 3 trials through the european medicines agency, but also phase 1 and 2 trials to save time here. in times of nova corona, we say it clearly: europe is quite well when it comes to public health, but we can get a lot better, so let's make it so.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, paulo paulino, firmino and raimundo guajajara, chief emrya wajãpi, chief francisco de souza pereira: all of them, murdered. they had one thing in common: they were brazilian indigenous leaders and defended their land, their people and the forest. invasions of indigenous lands in brazil have increased 150% since bolsonaro’s election in october 2018. the number of murders of indigenous leaders in the brazilian amazon has hit its highest level in two decades. and this is, since his first day in office bolsonaro has pushed to roll back protections for indigenous lands and pave the way for logging, mining and agricultural interests. the situation in brazil is really an emergency. i call on the brazilian government to stop the attacks on indigenous people and their land. i call on european companies to make sure that their business in brazil is not driving these crimes and i call on the commission not to conclude this mercosur agreement, which will increase the pressure on indigenous land.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the indigenous peoples are undoubtedly victims. they've been through a lot. their land was stolen, their traditions were disrespected, their culture was destroyed. the indigenous peoples themselves were mistreated and killed. but this could also be the future of europe. if it is not racist to defend people, cultures and traditions in other parts of the world, then it cannot be racist to defend the people, culture and traditions of europe. integrating skilled immigrants is not the same as accepting all cultures and millions of immigrants indiscriminately and naively. and we europeans should not be forced by the eu's autocratic and democratically illegitimate resettlement policy to adapt our culture and our values to any strangers. the eu must stop accepting illegal migration as inevitable and stop criticizing countries that protect its borders. this is rule of law, not hate speech. the people, cultures and traditions of europe deserve the same protection and respect as those of the indigenous peoples.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much, mrs johansson, for your words, for your really strong words and efforts. i've been to lesbos many times myself, and now people send me pictures and messages every day. when i look at the pictures, i see mostly suffering, i see coldness, i see lack of perspective and increasingly violence. and it makes me sad that this is not the first winter, but the fourth winter that people have to spend in unheated tents. i must also say that when people suffer, politics must act. it is good that we are talking here, but in order to finally act, we may not even need a new asylum pact from the commission, but only the will of the member states to respect human dignity and the rule of law, to work for it. without this will, if it is not made visible now, the commission's new asylum pact is also doomed to failure. we can and will debate asylum policy here, we will have different opinions and we will discuss them. but if our member states cannot even save children who are overwintering in the mud, how are we supposed to save european asylum policy? i think that given the situation on the greek islands, it would be right for at least some member states to take the lead and set a precedent and evacuate the children from the greek islands first. because i think we've been failing at our own claims for too long. we lock ourselves away, thinking we're better off. but europe is not better off if we close our eyes to the fact that people are worse off. this policy is not only degrading the people on europe's external borders, it is also degrading europe. and i think we can actually be more successful than that.
blue-card question. – i have a very simple question for you, and that is this: are you willing to uphold the right to asylum and the right to have an interview to determine the asylum status?
the question posed by the blue card. i also know the situation at the moria hotspot. i agree with you that the situation there is very bad, already in 2018, the number of refugees that can be there has been doubled. and i ask you, what was the syriza government doing at the time? how many new centers has she opened? how did she return the illegal refugees? how did she speed up the asylum process? when you criticize a government today that has been in power for less than six months and is trying to take concrete action.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the humanitarian situation on the greek islands is undoubtedly dramatic. we see increasing numbers of arrivals every day, and the precarious situation in the area leaves little hope for relief. but if we blame greece alone for the situation, we are short-sighted for two reasons. first, many bottlenecks are the result of years of neglect. the new greek government has now taken the initiative of evacuating people to the mainland, including the 'no child alone' initiative, which has been mentioned several times today. at the same time, greece is also addressing the problem of the long process time - one reason why more and more people are stuck and stuck on the islands. i would like to make a brief comment on this: it is not helpful to criticise greece for taking too long and at the same time to attack any new proposals for acceleration. it's not in the interest of the people on the islands. the greek government is clearly still obliged to do so. but there 's one thing that 's clear . secondly, all the other member states are obliged to do the same. asylum and migration policy only works through the and. we need a quick solution for the people on the islands and a functioning protection of the external borders. we need faster procedures and consistent repatriation. but what we need above all is a council which is moving, in which the countries directly and indirectly concerned are once again more eager to find solutions. we the parliament, the epp are ready. let us use this window of opportunity to reform the asylum and migration package.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. conditions on morea are unacceptable. i think it's good that you've made that assessment, commissioner. you have shown what kind of help the commission is giving. and again, we agree that's a lot, but probably not enough to solve the situation. the signal you are sending now, that you are doubling the number of easo staff, is a good signal, but in the end we need the member states. we need the member states to get the children and young people out of morea. and i think it takes a concerted effort by the member states to make that happen. we cannot allow the situation to continue as it is, because that is unworthy of the european union. we have - you have rightly said that - a situation where we do not have a crisis. i believe that we must use this window of opportunity to launch a new pact on migration and asylum. renew has made his own proposals. but this will not help the people of morea in the short term, but in the short term the member states must act. and if we don't get them to help people there and to take people in, then doubling the staff of easo will not be enough.
madam president, i would like to say to commissioner johansson that as we speak, argue, and also scream here, these children that we talked about are still stuck on the islands and there are no transfers. there are also, at the moment, no more guardians taking charge of their legal cases and they are already traumatised and sick when they arrive. so i’m very happy, commissioner, that you take first measures and want to improve the situation. and i would like to point out to the state secretary that the member states are blocking any additional, even voluntary, support at this very moment and so i would ask, state secretary, that you please press for additional steps here. but i also want to bring your attention to a fact that is overlooked, which is that the member states are even opting out of the current responsibilities that they have under this law that we already have in place. so, my member state, germany, is currently declining 70% of the family reunification cases for these children. which means that we are basically telling them: even though you have family, you are not welcome here, and this is not okay.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question is actually quite simple because i can agree with your speech and the speech before it. but i think that we could send this message much more strongly as a parliament if the next time we discuss this situation we do so with a resolution, where we do not just have 60 or 90 seconds, but where we can agree on a text and then with that text we can perhaps also send a strong message, which is exactly what we are asking for. i would therefore ask you whether you in your group will be able to ensure that we can adopt a resolution next time.
i have to say, madam president, transforming the transport sector to have any chance of meeting the paris climate targets is clearly a mammoth task. we have to start now. let us start today by making the most obvious: without a massive strengthening of rail in europe, we will not be able to transform the transport sector in a sustainable way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the railway infrastructure, whether it be the necessary extension of the railway infrastructure, and in particular the closing of the gaps in crossborder rail transport, or the creation of fair competition between modes of transport. i am simply saying that we should price externalities to put an end to the old and now anachronistic disadvantage of the railways. today i want to emphasize the importance of night trains. they are often the only real climate-friendly alternative to flying within europe. often dismissed as romantic, it turns out there's a real market out there, with high demand. you are right to say that there is a renaissance in europe today. the commission is the only one with ideas to encourage this trend in concrete terms. i've got a lot on my plate-- vehicle financing, community-oriented track pricing, ongoing ticketing. let's work together on this.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the commission work programme for 2020 (2019/2965 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, i want to reprimand the chairman of this committee. i do not want to be flying flags with the servants every three minutes.
it is not your place to reprimand the chairman. this is not your place. (interruption of the debate) they don't have the microphone right now. (interruption of the debate) we'll get to the bottom of this. but one thing is clear: the rules have been clarified, and we saw that yesterday in the brexit debate. only someone who follows the rules gets the floor. the rules have been clarified on several occasions. if you do not agree with the rules as they are interpreted, there are appropriate ways of complaining. we shall not discuss this in the plenary debate. so whoever has the flags on the desk doesn't get the floor.
the colleague has taken it upon himself to reprimand the chairman. that's not something that belongs to a member of the house in the flesh. there is no formal criticism from a member of parliament. it has something to do with respect for the chairman. i have dealt with the substantive question raised by mr fest - not for the first time, we have already clarified this on several occasions - and i think we should now use the time elsewhere, namely for the debate.
the next item on the agenda is mr rivière. mr rivière has been informed that only those who follow the rules are allowed to speak. he has chosen not to follow the rules, and therefore i now give the floor to mr lundgren.
as you can see, we have nothing against flags. that's why they're all hanging behind us, very prominent and very tall. we are all proud of our flags, but we are proud of them together, not on each table separately.
i would remind you that the item on the agenda is the commission's work programme for 2020 and that the speakers are actually required to stick to this subject. but it's obviously so emotional with the flags. if you want to use your speaking time for that, then so be it.
i have to say, madam president, today we are again talking about the european pillar of social rights. one of these pillars is the european unemployment insurance scheme. with the european unemployment insurance scheme we are moving ever faster towards a transfer union, and such a transfer union has nothing to do with social justice. on the contrary, it is 'anti-social' because it rewards those states which have done much wrong in the past and punishes those which have done much right. i would like to illustrate this with the example of germany: we are the largest economy in the eu and we are the largest net contributor. but what about social justice in our country? net wages in germany have fallen by 10% since the introduction of the euro. we are the only country in europe where net wages have fallen. the poverty rate among the elderly has doubled and will continue to increase dramatically in the coming years. more and more people in germany are living on the streets, they can no longer afford housing, because many, many, many people in the past were forced into the low-wage sector. at the same time, rents have risen by 50% in recent years! this is the case in the rich country of germany, the largest net contributor and the largest economy. social justice must remain a national task.
the vice-president, mrs barley, a german social democrat, only allows the members of the european parliament to speak if they deny their loyalty to their country. this is typical of a woman who represents a party... (the president interrupts the speaker)
we can now open a new debate on this subject. i ask you now to respect the authority of the chairman. that is not my decision, that is the bureau's decision. this was handled yesterday. if you wish to complain about this, please do so through the appropriate channels at the bureau. this is not a new debate. slow is enough.
i'm good with it. i am referring this criticism not to you but to the bureau, but i am also saying that it is indicative of an eu which, just yesterday, stood up for the rights of indigenous peoples to their culture, their traditions and also their flags, but at the same time trampled on the rights, the cultures and also the flags of the european peoples. the british have fortunately learned the lesson and have withdrawn. i am sure that other nations will follow this example, and hopefully germany will do so at some point. this would be a cause for double joy, because not only would it end germany's submission to the increasingly autocratic eu, but it would also end its petty and autocratic leadership of the council.
now you've got 11 more seconds for that performance, mr. fest. and please look again at the many beautiful flags behind us, of which we are all very proud.
it’s a point of order, according to rule 195 referring to the violation of rule 181, paragraph 1 by the president of parliament. honourable chair, the president of parliament deemed all our amendments to the credentials report by the juri committee as inadmissible. what is inadmissible about a statement that national electoral rules should be interpreted in the light of eu law? what is inadmissible in a statement that parliamentary procedures, according to the rules of this house, should be considered? there is nothing that is inadmissible here. the president might not agree with that on the substance, but it’s not up to him to decide on substance, it is up to us to decide on substance. it’s up to the majority of this parliament to decide on those issues. all he had to do is to decide whether it’s admissible or not, and in the amendment, there was nothing – no names, nor any other out of scope information – that would have been inadmissible. let me state this: the decision follows the path of politicising the behaviour and the decisions of parliament regarding credentials, especially regarding mr junqueras. the president overstepped yet again his authority in this case. he is not a king. he is a parliamentary president. we are in the european parliament. we’re not in a constitutional monarchy, so please let us, as parliament, decide on those issues. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what are we talking about today? we're talking about the principle of equal pay for equal work, regardless of gender. so for me, this principle is the most normal thing in the world. but unfortunately, that was not always the case. thank god we've accomplished a lot in the past. the 20th century was the age of emancipation. thank god for that. we are now living in the 21st century and we have to say that women in the european union actually earn on average 16% less than men. i find this a scandal. but you have to ask, what is this, why is this? it's primarily because -- and let's be honest here -- women have children, and women therefore work more part-time, and therefore have a lower chance of being promoted, and therefore of qualifying accordingly. that's the real scandal. we need a sensible family policy. women who have children need to be supported. that must be the focus of our policy in the future, to finally make a sensible family policy. i also find it significant that this wage differential in catholic countries, such as poland, is much, much lower than in countries governed by the left.
i have to say, madam president, i find it very interesting how vigorously people are discussing the idea that we should exclude sustainable investment from the investment rules. i think that makes a lot of sense, and i agree with that. but at the same time, i find it surprising that this sustainability rule does not seem to have any bearing on other investments. i am, of course, referring to the famous pci list, which we shall discuss separately. say, here billions are being poured into investments, into fossil infrastructure that we have been proven not to need. we are producing stranded assets, investments that are lost to european citizens, which are actually fuelling the climate crisis. i find it really fascinating that on the one hand we're talking about maybe not wanting to be so strict about sustainable investing, but on the other hand wanting to throw out absolutely unsustainable investing with both hands.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we welcome the new methodology on enlargement. the clusters give a new dynamic for the accession talks, but the fact that the cluster on fundamentals has special importance is highly appreciated by us. without functioning democracy, without rule of law, and even without good governance, there is nothing to talk about it. unfortunately, democratic institutions are not safe once we see progress. rule of law and media pluralism have been declining since serbia started negotiations in 2014, yet we pretend as if nothing has happened and continue the negotiations and other chapters, but without the fundamentals we cannot progress in other fields either. with a new approach, we can move forward when we see progress. the more ambitious countries need to be included in as many eu policies as possible. with this, we could gain back credibility and work on real changes in every citizen’s life in the region. the southeast of europe needs to become part of our green deal if we want to see europe climate—neutral by 2050. however, we should keep our promises. nothing is worse than the disappointment which the council produced during the last summit in october. it urgently needs a green light for north macedonia and albania. abolishing the visa regime for kosovo is overdue, as they have fulfilled all the criteria required. a new methodology is only meaningful if we keep ourselves to it as well.
the commission has already done so. why did the british leave the eu? because they wanted sovereignty over their country, but also because the eu has been breaking its central promise for years, namely the promise to increase the prosperity of european citizens. that's not the case. in fact, youth unemployment is dramatic in many countries, we are technologically dependent in many areas, productivity is falling, and the rescue of the euro and the associated zero-interest policy have made many europeans poor. but you ignore all this, as if there were no brexit, as if there were no yellow vests in france. now you want to include some balkan countries too! all these countries are at the bottom of the transparency index, in other words, highly corrupt, and all of them will be the recipients of transfers that will be in the pocket of european citizens. the enlargement of the eu to include more countries at the present time is another nail in the coffin of its existence. once you have solved the economic problems of the eu, you should look further.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. automated decision-making systems will literally decide our lives, and even more so our children's lives. education and employment, housing and employment, purchases and news are affected. but it's our decision what influence they have, what data the machines make judgments on, and what they decide to do and what they don't. we want ai to really serve everyone, and we can now set the course for that - with a clear yes to ai for climate protection and sustainability, but also with a clear no if it discriminates against people. because we know that every data set collected in an unequal society has a discriminatory effect. for example, women are currently paid less and do more caring work. this fact is reflected in the data and, if not corrected, will continue to make women poorly paid or even worse paid in the future. we must take legal action against such injustices with all our resolve. in the european union we have the right to safe products and services. but that right is only worth something if we can enforce it. so our regulators need broad powers to test algorithmic systems for legality. europe now has a unique opportunity to create a legal framework based on our democratic values that could serve as a model for the world. let us face this great undertaking with courage.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. code is law that is, what is written in machine code is in many cases as good as legislation, and therefore: bad code is also like a bad law. and what that means is that we're no longer just dealing with situations where algorithms actually make decisions, but in many cases, algorithms actually make decisions, or decisions are based on information that algorithms have calculated. this situation should not be underestimated, because the number displayed is impressive - even for a person who might theoretically make the decision - but so far we are only protected or there are only certain guarantees of transparency for the decisions made by the machine. i think that needs to change. we need transparency in the future, even where algorithms influence and dictate decisions, because the fact that a human being makes a decision cannot be just fiction and theory, but must also be guaranteed in practice.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for coming here and talking about this very important topic. i am very happy to hear that you are an entrepreneur and founder yourself. i am as well. i founded a political movement so it was in a bit of a different sphere, but i’m also a huge fan of innovation and competitiveness. i also therefore welcome better regulation, especially decreased uncertainty. we know that especially for smaller businesses and start-ups it’s really hard to keep up if there is legal uncertainty, regulatory uncertainty, so i hope we can get better at that. but i also see, like my colleague from renew, quite a boring trend: that we want to weaken competition, or at least, as the governments in poland and germany (my own country) and france and italy have said, and that is exactly the opposite of innovation and competitiveness. so i hope that we can safeguard, with the commission and parliament together, the competitiveness of all the small players by not weakening competition.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) account for 56% of the eu economy and employ almost 100 million people. they have little access to the financial market; bank loans are therefore essential. the green deal is more an excuse for printing money endlessly than environmental protection, and the capital markets union is helping big banks and investors who have been flooding in debt since 2011, while smes are suffering from credit crunch. printed money flows into unproductive financial assets and real estate, not into the real economy consciously. the green deal, the printing press and negative interest rates are destroying wealth and distributing what remains for the benefit of a financial system that continues to fool citizens and smes. the eu is unfortunately part of that system.
blue-card question. – i really like your idea of improving digitisation and training for smes, also to digitise further, especially since the data strategy is coming up. my question here is: where do you see the role of the eu in helping this digitisation to actually get the right set of data, to measure it and to be able to share it and to analyse it?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. we have a lobby, and it is the lobby of the wealth-destroying flower-bearers, with a particular aversion to large corporations, but also with indirect negative consequences for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that is not the case. we have also known for years where the problems lie in the area of small and mediumsized enterprises, namely in particular in the area of tax burdens and bureaucracy. the green deal and the co2 tax will put an increasing burden on smes in the coming years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the agenda item is therefore completely off. it should not be 'better regulation' but 'less regulation'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we're a people's representative, and therefore no more lobbying interests like the green deal. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the main objective must be to guarantee security of supply, and this is clearly about diversification. dependence on individual players must be avoided. the security of supply must be based on several pillars and nord stream 2 could make a significant contribution to this. of course, together with lng terminals and better connections to other gas supply projects from abroad. when i hear that the greens are including too many gas projects in the ten-e programme, but that the same group is also calling for the closure of coal-fired power stations and that nuclear power is also about to be phased out in countries like germany, i wonder whether you want to leave the supply of consumers entirely to the whims of nature. at the same time, we need to reduce costs, particularly in the electricity sector. it is not acceptable for private companies to shift past investment failures onto the taxpayer by leaping onto the ten-e programme's funding opportunities. we must also be clear about one thing: gas and electricity supply is a highly sensitive, indeed a strategic, area of our infrastructure, which we must not allow to become a blackmailing tool - neither by foreign states, as in the last case china in germany, nor by companies like 50hertz.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to set some things straight. it has been said on several occasions that the third pci list is much worse than the fourth. that's right, no one disputed that. but the point is this: the big gas projects that were on the third list are either finished or have been abandoned long ago. i mean, if we fall back on the third, it's not so bad from a point of view. and i want to make one more point: it seems that no one here has read the artelys study, which was published only recently, and the energy consultancy agency makes it quite clear: in order to meet our gas needs by 2050, and also to be able to transport green gas and hydrogen, which have all been mentioned here, we do not need new infrastructure. that means that these 29 billion euros are stranded assets, as has been said before, and we should better invest this money in a real energy transition, and that is why i am asking you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you have just told us that you want to move the pci process forward as quickly as possible. as soon as possible. that's not enough for us. the european commission is presenting us with a list of pci energy projects which are supposed to be of common european interest. and what do we find? 32 fossil natural gas projects. this list has been binding us in europe for decades to fossil fuels, against the green new deal, against the requirements of the paris climate targets and against the european parliament's resolution on the climate emergency. this list is dumping billions of taxpayers' money in a fossil grave in a europe which, according to the same european commission, wants to be climate neutral by 2050. this is absurd! we want to see the pci timetable rejected and the ten-e regulation reworked, not as soon as possible, but now! we want fossil natural gas projects to be replaced by electricity projects, by smart build and by renewable energy projects. we want to put climate protection at the heart of the commission's future industrial policy strategy, with a separate chapter on renewable energy. we want it this week, right here, right now, and fast.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the house! i'm perceived as a member of a group that would generally foment fear, unfounded emotions and the like. well, at least we didn't say anything about the fact that there would be food or medicine shortages in the uk after brexit, or even traffic chaos at the borders. these were not our words, these fears were fanned here by representatives of the self-appointed bourgeois middle. i can only ask you one thing - and i know it is particularly difficult for you these days - and that is to recognise a democratic process, a democratic decision in the united kingdom: accept the united kingdom as a partner, as a negotiating partner on an equal footing, and look at the possibilities now open up for a new free trade agreement as an opportunity for a new start, as an opportunity to build bridges - instead of going to the extreme here, as has just been called for - and to a new start for our relations on this side of the channel and on the other side.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 february 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation of mr geert bourgeois, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the free trade agreement between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam (06050/2019 c9-0023/2019 2018/0356 ((nle)) (a9-0003/2020), the report of mr geert bourgeois, on behalf of the committee on international trade, with a non-legislative motion for a resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the free trade agreement between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam (2018/0356mn ((le)) (a9-0017/2020), the recommendation of mr geert bourgeois, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on investment between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam (06050/2019 c9-0023/2019 2018/0356 ((nle)) (a9-03582020)) on the one hand, and the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on international trade between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam (a0358/0359/2019 (a0358 (nle)) on the other hand, and the draft council decision of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the report on the conclusion of the agreement on investment agreement between the european union and the republic of the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam (agreement) agreement between the european union and the socialist republic of vietnam (agreement of the one hand) and the european union on the agreement on investment agreement between the one hand, on the one hand, and the one hand, and the european union and the european union and the agreement between the european
madam president, let’s be clear: vietnam is a communist country. it’s not a democracy, and a trade agreement won’t make it one overnight. but the agreement will boost economic development. it will lift people out of poverty and give them more rights and protection. the new labour code especially protects vulnerable groups. unions will be allowed and freedom of assembly will follow. increased transparency and international observation bear huge potential for better protection of human rights. we are already trading with vietnam. this is not about if we want trade or not. this is about improving the circumstances. so let’s send a strong signal of cooperation to the whole asean region, to reformist forces that believe in cooperation with the european union, and let’s not give room to actors that don’t want to combine trade and values, like china. let’s support the agreement and let’s support the people of vietnam in their development.
madam president, this parliament decided in november that the paris agreement should be anchored in all chapters of our trade agreements, and this parliament decided in december that all our trade agreements would have enforceable environmental and social standards. also, this parliament considers itself to be at the forefront of human rights, and yet the majority of this house is ready to vote ‘yes’ on the trade and investment deal with vietnam, in a situation where human rights are deteriorating in vietnam and the numbers of political prisoners has been on the rise since 2016; in a situation where civic and political rights are systematically being cracked down; and in a situation where the deal on the table still does not contain enforceable social and environmental standards – and not only the social democrats in this house always pretended that this was a red line. i understood that there is a majority in this parliament to make trade more sustainable and climate-proof, which is good. but dear colleagues, we really make a fool of ourselves if we then, at the first best opportunity, give in and let a trade deal pass that does not live up to the green deal. i urge you today: say no to this deal. let’s ask the commission to renegotiate and to align the vietnam deal with the green deal. and let’s send a strong signal to the vietnamese government to improve the devastating human rights situation before we sign the deal and not after.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what have we not heard during the european elections campaign, all over europe? there was no more free trade agreements giving multinational companies rights against states, environmental laws, health protection laws or social rights. the free trade agreements that contribute to climate change, particularly through deforestation, are over. the eu is also committed to the protection of the marine environment and the conservation of marine resources. there was no more of these free trade agreements which are against democracy and individual freedoms. and then the first agreement comes and all these groups, the social democrats, bernd lange, the liberals and en marche, the conservatives: you are all going to vote for a free trade agreement that is contrary to the declarations and commitments of the european commission on the green deal, on the values of europe and on regulated globalisation. as it happens, we have this debate after a brexit debate. but have you not also understood that brexit was voted because we are abandoning the working classes here to go exploit them in abominable conditions without freedom, without social rights, on the other side of the planet? so, ladies and gentlemen, a little decency towards the vietnamese, a little decency towards your constituents. reject this free trade agreement which is in no way compatible with the values of europe.
madam president, this trade agreement between the eu and vietnam is proof that we can establish european standards in the world through trade agreements. a significant improvement in workers’ rights; a ban on forced labour; the approval of independent unions; an enforcement mechanism for the paris agreement, which we wouldn’t have without the agreement. what a great success. colleagues from the greens and the left are generally against trade agreements. they share this in common with the right-wing populists, by the way. the question you have to answer is now: how do you want to implement european standards worldwide? through speeches in this house? demonstrations? letters? the only realistic way to promote european influence globally in an age of shifting geopolitical distribution of power is through trade agreements. those who vote against it will have to explain how they want to realistically achieve our common goals while, at the same time, following an agenda which is isolating and disabling the european union as a trading partner.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the figures show that in 2018 the trade in goods between the european union and vietnam amounted to some eur 40 million. this means that vietnam is already an important trading partner and that our citizens use products made in vietnam every day. this agreement can improve trade and political relations with a strategic partner in a very important area such as south-east asia, by framing these relations in a system of certain and shared rules. vietnam has in recent years embarked on a path of significant reforms, especially in labour law, the progress of which has been certified by the world labour organisation. of course, this is only a starting point and we should demand concrete deeds and actions from the vietnamese authorities both in this respect and in respect of human rights and freedom of expression. in this sense, the trade agreement represents an important lever in the hands of the european union to stimulate and call on vietnam to respect the commitments solemnly made.
madam president, mr commissioner, this will be the first major trade agreement that this new parliament will ratify, and it will send several positive messages. firstly, to an ever more protectionist world, that the eu still believes in rule-based free trade. secondly, to the region, bringing us one a step closer to a regional asean (association of southeast asian nations) agreement. thirdly, to our citizens and businesses, that we are dedicated to expanding better conditions for business to thrive, grow and generate more jobs. and finally, it is proved that trade can positively influence other areas. the negotiations helped push vietnam towards important labour reforms. by having this framework in place, we will now have a way to constructively engage on topics ranging from human rights to the environment and, as with any agreement, implementation will be the key. and you can count on this parliament to do our job.
madam president, agreements between the eu and vietnam are undoubtedly important geopolitically, and vietnam has also made progress in reforming its labour laws – but it has, on the other hand, failed to amend its penal code to allow workers to enjoy those rights. oppression has become more severe even during the last stage of the finalisation of these agreements. parliament, if giving its consent tomorrow, takes a heavy responsibility of making its own demands happen in reality on sustainable development, human rights and participation of an independent civil society, and, as our own committee on foreign affairs demands, the commission and its vietnamese counterparts still must set up an independent monitoring mechanism on human rights and an independent complaints mechanism with the recourse to remedy. so this all is why our group, the greens/european free alliance, cannot yet support these agreements.
madam president! both the free trade agreement (fta) and the investment protection agreement (ipa) are indeed the most ambitious agreements of their kind ever concluded with a developing country. in negotiating them, the commission sought to achieve two main objectives: first, to provide union operators with the best possible conditions for access to the vietnamese market; and second, to provide a valuable second reference point (after the agreement with singapore) for other negotiations conducted by the union in the region. both objectives were fully achieved. the agreements go beyond existing wto commitments in many areas, such as services, procurement, non-tariff barriers and the protection of intellectual property rights, including geographical indications. in all these areas, vietnam has also agreed to take on new commitments that go far beyond what it has committed to in other agreements, including the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans-pacific partnership. the agreements will remove almost all customs restrictions on mutual trade. the commission notes that the union's macro-financial assistance is limited to the minimum necessary to address the specific needs of the union's macro-financial assistance. the eu will be able to exert greater pressure on hanoi on human rights issues through these agreements. that is why i call for a vote to ratify these documents.
madam president, please. i see the extremes are converging in this house today. i suggest the opposition reconsider our priorities. our job is to create opportunities for european companies and our citizens to benefit from them. more trade means a chance for vietnamese citizens to develop and to achieve their freedom by following our standards. it is a mistake to think that the union should be constantly educating and training instead of approaching its partners with a little respect and seeking good relations. dialogue and verification of commitments will contribute to the development of human rights, labour and environmental protection in vietnam, not turning our backs. those who argue against the two agreements do not want european companies to have access to the public procurement market in hanoi or ho chi minh city. dear opponents, please don't wish harm to european companies and vietnamese. i ask the commission to help provide up-to-date, practical information to enable european smes to make the most of the two conventions.
madam president, mr hogan, the agreement between the european union and vietnam is of great strategic importance because of the impetus it gives to our trade relations with the asean region and because of vietnam's firm commitment to defending multilateralism and sustainable development when the world needs it most. an ambitious tariff reduction, enhanced cooperation and, above all, a binding sustainable development chapter defining a framework for labour relations with vietnam more in line with ilo principles and conventions have been negotiated. the european parliament, thanks to the pressure of my group and other groups, has obtained concrete measures and commitments from the vietnamese government on labour rights and respect for human rights, which are specified in work programmes. and i want to thank the efforts made by the vietnamese authorities. but there is still a lot to be done and we socialists are still concerned about the human rights situation, especially as regards fundamental freedoms. we will therefore be monitoring closely the implementation of the agreement and i ask you, commissioner, to take the appropriate steps to ensure that this agreement does not harm european farmers and in particular rice producers. but i think this agreement is an important instrument for moving forward and i will support it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. trade is basically mutually beneficial. as a regular rapporteur for bangladesh and other countries, i know how developing countries look at vietnam, because for the first time an emerging country is being given the opportunity to link up and develop with the european economy through an individual free trade agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i am asking for your consent. the free trade agreement is balanced, it reflects the different views here in the house on trade with other countries, and it makes all the emerging countries a european offer for further development so that there is prosperity at home and not so that these people have to seek their happiness elsewhere and in other countries. in this respect, it is a good, balanced agreement that casts a positive light on europe and trade. i ask your consent.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, i do not understand your argument: do you think that with or without the agreement we will have more influence on the authoritarian regime? the question is: are we more influential in vietnam with the agreement or without it?
madam president, vietnam is an important partner in southeast asia. this year they hold the chairmanship of the association of southeast asian nations (asean) and we aspire to foster closer trade relations with them. with this free trade agreement we are starting a new era in our relations. vietnam is a fast—growing economy and by facilitating european—vietnamese trade, this agreement offers ample opportunities for companies on both sides. we encourage cultural and economic cooperation. we create a stepping stone to the european union’s longer term goal of region to region eu-southeast asia trade relations. in addition, we will enhance european visibility in the emerging asian market. but next to closer trade cooperation we should also keep in mind the situation of human rights in our partner country. we see that the government restricts the freedom of religion through legislation and surveillance. local authorities often seize properties in places of worship. next to our strengthened trade with vietnam, the european union should also push for improved inter-religious dialogue. we should not only work on strengthening the economic ties but also respect the right of belief as a fundamental aspect of our future relations. i do support this trade agreement but also i expect much closer … (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i support the conclusion of the eu-vietnam agreement because, in addition to creating and preserving jobs in vietnam and in the eu, we have set in motion a good development which can have a positive impact on vietnamese society as a whole. the most important thing is that with the agreement we have established a solid legal framework, a platform for dialogue, control mechanisms and a permanent commission composed of representatives from both countries, where we can talk not only about the content of the trade agreement, but also about the implementation of the paris climate agreement and the green deal, about freedom of the press and about human rights. we're not giving out a blank check. we're at the beginning of a partnership that we need to bring to life. the commission and we as members of this house now have the obligation and the task of making this agreement a model and a model. i am glad that a large majority in this house obviously wants to take advantage of this opportunity.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 february 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this annual report is a tribute to mario draghi. the ecb creates growth and jobs, only inflation has to rise, so money is printed. draghi has indeed printed more money than anyone, at any time, anywhere since 1925. the ecb printed 40% of economic output, the fed and the bank of england only 25% and 15%, and no one was happier than draghi to break eu law. in 2009, the eu economy was significantly larger than the us economy. the financial crisis hit the united states harder. then draghi came along, and in 2018, the eu continued to have more people, but a smaller economy. youth unemployment in southern europe is up to 35% - a success for ever fewer young people! in germany, savings and pensions are melting away like glaciers in summer. draghi leaves burned earth. to whose benefit? firstly, the big money men, who continue to increase theirs, and secondly, the irresponsible governments, because without dragi's negative interest rates, mrs merkel could not afford her world-saving fantasies.
mr president, mrs lagarde, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you for your words here, and it's good to see you. i would like to invite you, as did one of the speakers before me, to look closely at this area of cryptocurrencies and the opportunities of digitisation for new payment methods. a central bank that actually gives citizens direct access to payments through the methods of the internet and digital currency can ultimately make digital services cheaper, and thus keep something in the public domain where it belongs. digital currencies are not a place for criminals like today, where illegal payments are made, and digital currencies are not in the hands of transnational corporations. so you are offering a real advantage to the citizens by introducing electronic money yourself, with the security of the central bank and the new technologies at our disposal. i hope you'll take this with you on your way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president lagarde, we will not vote in favour of this resolution of parliament on the annual report of the ecb because the good intentions of wanting to combat climate change are not enough to absolve the ecb of failure in its actions to support the real economy. because the excuse of the international uncertainties of brexit is not enough to justify the sudden decline in gdp that we saw in the euro area between 2018 and 2019 but not in those eu states that did not adopt the euro. the unconventional measures have been yet another refinancing of banks and banking institutions, but households and businesses have not seen a single euro of that money. money that the ecb has also taken from the most indebted member states to distribute to the richest states and to give to banks full of derivatives and full of non-performing loans. that is why industrial production has fallen dramatically in recent years and the ecb must now take full responsibility for this failure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs lagarde, i think it is good that you have started to establish a new style in the ecb, that you want to review the policy and also to communicate and explain it better. that is right, that is necessary, but if, after the review, the policy turns out to be wrong, then not only can it be communicated differently, but it must be changed. the report shows that the hicp , the value at which inflation is measured, is 1,2% for 2019, 1% for 2020 and 1,5% for 2021. if so, you will not reach your 2% target. and if that is the case, then the question arises whether the ecb should not even put its target in a corridor, because we see that after a decade of low interest rates, countries like the federal republic of germany in particular are certainly affected by negative effects. we are a nation of savers with large savings deposits in the banks, and this is a difficult problem. i therefore ask you to include this point in your critical review. the last sentence: the ecb wants to push forward the banking union and european deposit insurance. that is all right in principle, but before you can push forward with the deposit guarantee, the conditions must be created. you don't take out fire insurance on a partner whose house is already on fire. i ask you to consider that as well.
mr president, as this parliament has already acknowledged, the intervention of the european central bank, under the leadership of mario draghi, was essential to correct the initial errors of the crisis response, to save the euro and to help the european economy recover from the great recession. today, with ms lagarde's new leadership, there are new winds blowing, including a major strategic review to align the ecb's policy with the objectives of combating climate change and the green deal, without prejudice to its mandate. but if what is changing is important, it is equally important what remains: a monetary policy of stimulating the economy which remains necessary with the current economic slowdown and the need to meet the inflation targets entrusted to the ecb. while governments with fiscal leeway refuse to contribute to a more expansionary fiscal policy, it is expansionary monetary policy that the euro area continues to need.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i want to focus on one aspect of the report, and that is the cash. you, ms lagarde, have spoken a lot lately about winning the trust of the citizens. i've taken that to heart, and i'd like to give you something to start with: the citizens of the european union are afraid of the abolition of cash. the abolition of the 500 euro note is a sign of this. this is further eroding the public's confidence in the european union. however, cash is an important sign of freedom and independence. in addition, cash is protected against negative interest rates. i therefore felt it important to emphasize the retention of cash as the position of parliament and i tabled an amendment which is now also set out in paragraph 75 of this paper. i would like to inform you that you are giving the citizens the certainty of receiving the cash as a confidence-building measure, but also to guarantee the independence and freedom of the citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when i was in elementary school, the territory of eastern germany, the former gdr, was marked "currently under soviet administration", and the more eastern regions of pomerania and silesia were marked "currently under polish administration". this was one of the great lies of life in the postwar period: the belief that the territories lost in the war would ever return. willy brandt was the first to break that lie. a similar lie has been told for 53 years about gaza and the west bank. both areas were lost to the arabs because they lost wars against israel. when you start a war, you have to expect it. the two-state solution of 1967 is the great lie of the un, and it is also the great lie of the eu. president trump's peace plan is far from ideal, but it does put movement in a situation that is completely deadlocked. for more than 50 years, gaza and the west bank have been conflict zones. so, are we going to continue to cling to a lie? the un peace plan of 1967 with the two-state solution: does it work? it doesn't.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. idlib is where all those people have fled who have not yet made it out of syria. three million are trapped there - trapped in a proxy war on the backs of the weakest. the civilians are being targeted, hospitals and schools are being bombed, cluster munitions are being used what is happening in idlib right now is the right of the most cruel. yes, the eu is providing humanitarian aid. this is important, and it must continue. but it can do more: full diplomatic engagement for a ceasefire, documentation of war crimes, extension of sanctions to include those responsible in russia and turkey, and yes, host contingents for the most vulnerable, should they ever make it out of idlib. mr borrell, this comprehensive political solution for syria is currently unavailable to anyone. but that's why it's so important that we take the small steps that we can take, and take them consistently, to counter the cruelty in syria. i hope that we will be able to take a big step forward at the foreign ministers' council on monday.
i have to say, madam president, the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social cohesion. there are over a million displaced people, and since december 2019, you have to consider that idlib province and its surroundings are being bombed almost daily by the regime of bashar al-assad, supported by the russian air force. since friday evening, turkey has brought more than 600 military vehicles across the common border. there are fears that the situation could escalate further and lead to a direct military confrontation between syria and turkey. more than 500,000 people have fled syria since december alone, 80% of them women and children. this displacement is one of the largest since the conflict began in 2011. since then, the conflict has lasted almost nine years. during that time, over 400 000 people have been killed - including 22 000 children - and we europeans are still watching. we must now work for a ceasefire, protect the refugees, and demand a political solution to the conflict, as you say, mr borrell. but what exactly is that? is a blue helmet mission the right way to go? i would also like to remind you that we have a responsibility to the kurds and yazidis in the region and a moral duty.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking you for inviting me to discuss such a milestone in europe—africa relations as the new eu strategy for africa. as i committed during my hearing to do my utmost to strengthen and deepen the cooperation between the commission and the european parliament, i am glad to exchange with you here today. how more appropriate for my first address to this chamber than discussing our relationship with the african continent? i value your experience, knowledge and views and believe them to be important for a topic such as this one. on our first trip outside europe, president von der leyen and i went to hear africa. we experienced a continent of youth, brimming with confidence, full of potential and attractive for the global players. we met a partner that deserves a more positive engagement from us. we have already paved the way for change with the africa—europe alliance for sustainable investment and jobs, supported by the external investment plan for sustainable investments, and have achieved, in such a short amount of time, tangible progress. now we can capitalise on those achievements and go further. it is time for a new chapter that brings a step change in our relationship. for that to happen, we need a new, comprehensive strategy, a strategy that supports africa’s potential political economic governance efforts and moves to bolster peace and resilience, a strategy with africa that ensures partners’ ownership and commitment, and a strategy that better positions the eu in the new global context, reflecting the aims of this geopolitical commission and the ambitions of the european green deal. the abidjan priorities we set back in 2017 remain valid today. our approach is not to change direction, but to step up a gear for better results. the strategy’s comprehensive character will be ensured by its inbuilt links with the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the paris agreement on climate change, the eu global strategy, the european consensus on development and agenda 2063 of the african union. we will continue to work on economic continental integration, human development, mobility and migration. thematically, apart from addressing the climate and environmental challenges, we will focus on digitalisation and gender equality, which are major enablers for development. there cannot be development without solid governance, respect for human rights, the rule of law and democracy. therefore, we will pursue our efforts in these areas, along with the fight for peace and security, and against extremism. finally, yet importantly, we would like to work closer with our african partners on the multilateral rule-based system that is being called into question more and more. a key priority through my mandate, i will ensure that the implementation of this strategy supports the power that youth represents. young people, including young women, must also own this strategy. work on the new ambitious framework is already ongoing, both at political and technical level. in the meantime, we continue listening and trying to ensure broad ownership of the strategy, both by yourselves and our member states, as well as by our african partners and civil society, including young people. we will hold an eu—au ‘college to college’ meeting on 27 february in ethiopia and a ministerial meeting in may. both events will provide key opportunities for dialogue with our african partners. i intend to travel to africa in february and march to consult as broadly as possible. the proposal for the new strategy will be on our college agenda for adoption in early march. that will mark the beginning of more concrete work with our key stakeholders. i look forward to our debate and hearing your views on what you see as priority areas for a renewed africa—eu partnership.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. why do we need a new eu-africa strategy? because the european commission has explicitly defined itself for the first time as geopolitical and has committed itself as a whole to implementing the un sustainable development goals, because of the pressing issues of climate change and migration, because the cotonou agreement needs to be renegotiated and we have the green deal, because of the rapid development of digitization and a new free trade zone in africa. these are all new realities that an eu-africa strategy must address. i believe it is important that we apply the whole eu and member state toolbox in a coherent way and learn from the past. this means, first and foremost, focusing on fair trade relations and tax revenue generation in african countries, educational opportunities, promotion of democracy and the rule of law, efficient administration and security structures, stronger support for women and girls, and inclusion at the regional and local levels rather than just traditional budgetary aid. the aim of the whole must be that every african man and woman has a secure life prospect in his or her home country or home region. we need both eu and african responsibility for a genuine partnership that is mutually beneficial. the european parliament's group chairman, manfred weber, made it very clear last year, among other things, with his proposal for an african commissioner, how high a priority the eu-africa issue has for the epp. i hereby pledge my full support and commitment to you so that by the end of this term we will have put eu-africa relations on a new and better footing.
for the greens/efa group madam president, the partnership between the european union and africa is based on a common strategy which underlines the new policy cooperation on a basis of negotiated values, shared by equals, and which determines these relations. new agreements on the strategy were reached at the eu-africa summit in abidjan in 2017 by heads of state, who highlighted their priorities. they identified four priorities for joint action, including investment in human capital, resilience, peace, good governance, and investment in sustainable development structures and migration. this choice of cooperation is also a way of distancing oneself from the paternalistic relations which have prevailed so far. the negotiations on economic and development relations are now being supplemented by the new aspect of the strategy. this new initiative, supported by the european commission, raises many questions: how will poverty be eradicated? how can we stop the big words that are holding back development and give a secure prospect to the youth and women who make up 60% of the population on this continent?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the dams are breaking down - that was the first thought that many of us had when we saw the far-right höcke, the friend of those who have just spoken, and the newly elected thuringian prime minister shaking hands. the dams are breaking. they have been breaking for a long time now, when the hungarian prime minister is playing anti-semitic clichés, when right-wing extremists are in government in austria and estonia and are running around in many other countries, when jewish people here in europe are no longer comfortable and the sinti and roma are no longer comfortable anyway. the dams are breaking, they are breaking in our minds, when it becomes increasingly normal to joke about jewish influence, to curse jewish capital, when it becomes normal to have cars with anti-jewish motives at the carnival every year a few kilometers from here in aalst, when it becomes increasingly normal to say nothing against it. the dams are breaking them. what is the eu doing about it? i ask the commission, i ask the member states, i ask all of us. our eu presidents made some beautiful speeches in jerusalem last week. but words alone can't fight anything, we need more. because the dams are breaking. and we don't just need shock, we need attitude and action! what are we gonna do? we have equipped the staff of the commissioners against anti-semitism. does she have enough manpower to do this job? how do the member states actually shape the council decision and how do they implement it? we don't know that. we are waiting for those answers, and i am waiting for them not only as a member of the executive of the working party on anti-semitism in this house, but as a citizen of europe. because the dams break them, and we have to stand up to them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm very surprised at what i just heard. anti-semitism once culminated in the worst, most inhuman and cruel genocide known to mankind. he brought out the worst of mankind. even with the reorganization of democratic europe after 1945, anti-semitism did not disappear, but it took on new forms. anti-semitism became adaptable, changeable, and in the process, deeply rooted in our society. this was also shown in the debate today. the right-wing populists in europe are not only serving anti-semitism in secret; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. it is our collective duty to counter this cynical, inhuman approach in our society and political landscape. it is our collective duty to erase anti-semitism from the minds of the people. this requires uncalled heroes citizens who speak out and speak out against all forms of anti-semitism. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, may you also become unsung heroes in your own countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one of the main problems is the enormous amount of dishonesty in this house. mrs. ries talks about a jew being tortured and murdered in france, but she doesn't even mention his name. the name of the man was ilan halimi, by the way, and she doesn't mention who the perpetrator was, namely, of course, a muslim immigrant. what is not discussed in these discussions is that of course bds will never be on the list of terrorist organizations, and of course neither will hezbollah, as mentioned earlier. at the same time, this parliament is working to open the borders, to get resettlement programmes and a global compact on migration, so that more and more muslims come to europe. the berlin jews say that about three quarters of all attacks come from muslims, and it must be added: the rest probably comes from anti-zionists and supporters of boycott, disinvest and sanctions. and of course you are also financing anti-semitism in palestine, namely fatah and hamas, with 1.5 million a day, as mr borrell said today. if you want to fight anti-semitism, you should stop funding it.
i would ask you, mr president, not to use the word 'falsehood' in this chamber as a pretext against other members.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the first debate in this house on the subject of anti-semitism in this parliamentary term was on the tragic attack in halle. the debate today takes place before the impression of holocaust remembrance day two weeks ago. both events, though unfortunately not only these two, remind us: our commitment to combating anti-semitism is more important than ever. it can and it will have no end. anti-semitism, racism, hate crime are on the rise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but even more than attention, we need to take action to counter this hatred and division. the osce's latest report on hate crime found that many acts are not considered hate crimes at all - partly because many victims do not provide the necessary information. they're just afraid it won't change their situation. for us, this can only mean one thing: we must take the situation of the victims even more seriously, we must fight hate speech, threats, anti-semitism online and offline and we must be more ambitious in this. because only together can we stand up to it.
(the president declared the common position approved as amended) anti-semitism and violence are becoming more and more widespread in europe. the debates in meetings, on the streets and in everyday life are becoming increasingly harsh, aggressive and demeaning. insults are accepted and unfortunately legally sanctioned, as in germany the debate about the nword. this is seen as a free hand by the racists and is indirectly a breeding ground for degrading action. racist attacks are on the rise. people of other colours or religions, black people, jews, sinti and roma are often the targets of racist violence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we have seen an alarming break with the taboo in the thuringia elections just last week, when a party of the centre for reasons of power entered into an alliance with a populist party. unfortunately, i and other africans in ludwigsburg last weekend had to endure a play with racist and derogatory terms like the n-word. the explicit suggestions of various actors not to allow the play in this form were not accepted. the un has declared 2014-2024 as the decade for people of african descent, because we are still victims of racism, discrimination and intolerance. in particular, at a time when bad mood is gaining ground and every line of decency is being crossed, it is more important than ever that each of us commit ourselves to a political culture of equality, respect and solidarity and take a clear stand against racism. the president shall withdraw the floor from the speaker.
i have to say, madam president, the independent experts of the venice commission could not have been more clear in their judgment: if poland decides to adopt the recent judicial reform, judges will be put in the so literally impossible situation that they will face disciplinary sanctions if they apply european law. the experts strongly warned the polish government against adopting this law. what did we see last week? the polish president is signing that very law against all warnings. this has consequences for polish society, and it has very personal consequences. just last week, the disciplinary chamber suspended judge paweł juszczyszyn from his duties and reduced his salary by 40%. his crime his alleged crime: he questioned the composition of a judicial body appointed by the newly formed national council of justice, which was loyal to the government. the council of justice, which the polish supreme court declared illegal in accordance with a judgment of the ecj. and who suspended him? the disciplinary chamber, which should also have been shut down long ago. it too has been declared illegal by the polish supreme court and the eu commission has asked the ecj to suspend it immediately. so you can see, in many small mosaic stones: many, many small laws are causing the supremacy of european law to cease to apply in poland, the independence of the judiciary to cease to apply. we need the commission to take action before the european court of justice and we must not allow any more cherry-picking. there are not only rights in the european union, there are also duties, and the rule of law is one of them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. so first of all, i am not representing germany here, i am representing citizens of the european union. secondly, mrs szydło lied earlier when she said that german judges are not allowed to engage in political activity. there are even colleagues from the afd, their much-loved sister party in germany, who sit in the german bundestag. so that's a lie. and what you're quoting is right-wing bias. that's something else entirely. that's when you deliberately twist the laws. what your colleague has done is to want to call a european court, to want to apply european law. in germany, for example, no one is punished for having a different view of the law, but unfortunately in poland they are, and that is the difference.
maybe you will have the possibility to answer if you accept a blue card. there were several blue cards, i can take only one, from colleague wiśniewska. do you accept it?
please, no debate, i will not allow a debate. i allowed the blue card but there was no question in the blue card, so i just state that the next blue card has to have a question inside – this is not additional speaking time.
there is no question, so how do you want the colleague to answer? for the last time i will give him the opportunity because you tried to have extra speaking time, but this is not acceptable. so please, 30 seconds, but we will only accept questions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. every time we are in strasbourg we discuss the polish judicial reform, and i have to say that i am amazed at the enthusiasm with which the polish members of the left and the centre are involved when it comes to putting their own country in the pan. you should have read the decision of the european court of justice of 19 november 2019. the fact that judges do not appoint themselves but are appointed by parliament and the ministry of justice does not mean that the separation of powers is in question, otherwise there would be no separation of powers in germany or the usa, for example. what you are asking for in poland, namely that judges can appoint and promote themselves, is a polish special way that has nothing to do with the separation of powers. the division of powers means independence in decision-making, independence after appointment, but not appointment of its own accord.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the following questions: oral question to the council on the protection of the eu internal market and consumer rights against the adverse effects of illicit trade in pet animals by stanislav polčák, sylwia spurek, martin hojsík, alexandra louise rosenfield phillips, jadwiga wiśniewska, anja hazekamp and eleonora evi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000010/2020 b90003/2020) (2019/2814(rsp)) and oral question to the commission on the protection of the eu internal market and consumer rights against the adverse effects of illicit trade in pet animals by stanislav polčák, sylwia spurek, martin hojsík, alexandra louise rosenfield phillips, alexandra louise rosenfield phillips, jadwiga rosenfield phillips, jadwiga wiśniewska and eleonora evi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000014/2020) (o-000014/2020) (o-000011/2020) i would like to remind you that you can view the spontaneous messages and the 'blue cards' both electronically and by raising the cards.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 february 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have to say, madam president, billions of euros in poker for the eu budget now merkel has to fight for germany's discount. the headlines about the multiannual budget have it in them. but when heads of state and government hide behind discounts and mountains of figures, it is really the future of the eu that is at stake. do we want to make the eu climate neutral? do we want to fight youth unemployment and poverty? do we want to invest more in research and digitisation? we greens want that, and we therefore want to assess the proposal which mr michel is now drawing up and which will be on the table next week on that basis and nothing else. because we know that 1.0% or 1.07% is far too little. it means cuts to the eu budget and to the future. we need more joint investment in the eu to make the eu climate neutral, but we also need to spend the funds in a more climate-friendly way. less for coal and industrial agriculture, more for renewable energy and climate-friendly agriculture. for us, the eu is not just a money machine where everyone gets something, but for us the debate is about democracy and values, and anyone who tramples on our democracy should not get money from the eu budget. that's why we need a strong rule-of-law mechanism, and we say very clearly: if viktor orbán, together with others, kicks the rule of law mechanism, then we as a parliament will not end up approving the financial framework as a whole. no country benefits more from a strong eu than germany, and that is why we find the german federal government's position particularly petty. germany would be much weaker without the eu. german companies export extremely much to the rest of the eu and benefit from investments in all member states. we therefore want the german government to commit itself to a strong eu budget. just 87 cents a day and every german citizen invests in the european union. we think it would be well tolerated to spend 20 or 30 cents more. we 're looking forward to next week . we greens are fighting for a strong budget and for more climate spending.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. most people here just talk about a bigger house. i think we need to talk about a better budget. and that is possible if we really give priority to expenditure with real european added value. it's about the worker in an industrial plant who's worried about his job. he can expect and hope that we will invest in innovation and digitalisation so that better and better jobs and value creation can continue to be created in europe in the future. it's about the old lady who's worried, afraid of terrorism. they can expect us to give europol and eurojust adequate funding so that they can fight terrorism and crime. and it is about every student, every trainee in europe, who can actually go abroad with erasmus anywhere in europe, so that europe grows together in this place. it is also clear that if we are doing meaningful additional work at european level, this sometimes means that we have to think about where we can save accordingly in the member states. we must discuss this too, and the member states must discuss this too. but it is also clear that there must be no discount in europe for the rule of law. it is not possible that some countries like to take european money and then trample on european rules and values. we need a robust rule of law mechanism, not one that is the plaything of any political games, but one where it is objectively stated: if the rule of law is not respected, then there can be no money. because that is also what the taxpayers in europe expect us to do with european money.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am a little surprised at the tone of the debate, because the subject is actually: preparation of the special european council meeting on 20 february on the multiannual financial framework. but what are we doing here? we are doing a real disservice to the relevant parties here, the council, by complaining that mr michel is not here. i do not know whether that is good for the outcome, good for the negotiations. i think we just have to get back to what we really want, what we really want. and the thing is, clearly, we have a limited framework, we have a limited amount of money to spend. let us stop chasing the sparrow in the hand, or not be satisfied with chasing the pigeon on the roof. let us be content with the sparrow in our hand and let the council decide what happens now. the 1.7% or 1.11% is really enough.
madam president, i would urge everyone to step back from the numbers. the objectives are the most important when deciding on the multiannual financial perspective. will we not strive to ensure a good standard of living for all inhabitants of all regions? the numbers seem to indicate that, because cohesion is being cut very sharply. will we tolerate some farmers being treated as second-class citizens? this appears to be the case, as the commission proposal does not include the harmonisation of direct payments. do we put national interests ahead of our common goals? and this question is linked to the debate on the level of the member states' contribution to the general budget. i agree that the european union has new challenges, but new challenges need to be financed with new money. because you can only withdraw funding from specific areas when there is a general agreement that it is no longer worthwhile to pursue them.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the cuts proposed by the previous commission in the eu budget for the two main policies, cohesion by 10% and the cap by 15%, have just been rejected in a position adopted in portugal by the 17 countries of the group of friends of cohesion at the beginning of february. the budget must therefore be increased both by raising membership fees and by eliminating existing rebates, and perhaps also by creating new sources of own revenue. a compromise in the council is possible, but only if we move away from negotiations based on a net payers/net beneficiaries structure and also take into account the benefits of the individual eu countries from participating in the common market and capital flows. net payers generally benefit very much from a share of the common market. germany, for example, pays 27 billion euros in contributions a year, and the benefits of the single market are worth 210 billion a year. in addition, the countries of western europe have other benefits from enlargement. one is dividends and interest on capital. only by taking account of all these flows is it possible, in my view, to have a rational discussion about the shape of the future budget and a chance to reach an agreement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, next week the special european council will be dealing with a very important subject: what resources will the european union have from 2021 to 2027 to meet the new challenges we face and give european citizens a more environmentally sustainable, fairer, safer, more modern society? parliament has asked for an adequate budget. so far, the response of governments has been inadequate. on the one hand we are giving europe new tasks and responsibilities which governments cannot tackle alone, but on the other hand we are keeping the purse strings tight. how to say: to do more but without resources. the perfect recipe for continuing to use the european project as the best scapegoat for the things that are wrong. this is not a budget, ladies and gentlemen, but the credibility of the union itself. we therefore ask the council presidency to take the message of this house to the heads of state or government. we expect a reversal of the trend immediately, no more playing with the future of the union, with the future of all of us.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we have to ask ourselves: what are the real challenges we face? and that challenge might be something like this: we are faced with the challenge of creating a new industrial ecosystem. so this is not science fiction, this is not jules verne, this is not aldous huxley, this is not isaac asimov, but this is the reality we face. so first of all we need a budget that is compatible with paris, a green deal budget framework for the coming years. we also need a research budget that is responsive to the challenges we face, and that research budget must be consistent with the research budgets of the member states. this is no small task for the council, but if the council cannot solve it, we stand there in shame.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you: but you think italians are stupid? you think you can fool the citizens forever? do you think the italians should suffer in silence the robberies committed by europe? you are completely off track, dear european bureaucrats, because the italians are tired of being the atm of europe and of being robbed of billions of euros every year. we are all tired of seeing europe give away our money to the islamic dictator erdogan of turkey, or to some ngo that brings illegal immigrants to our home. it's a great shame, but you're preparing for worse! for the next seven years you are prepared to impose a new tax on our citizens, a tax which you are trying to disguise as 'own resources' and lastly you are trying to fool us with the esm. be careful, though, the patience of the italians is over! and we will do everything to stop the madness of this europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we look at the stands, we see many young people who are putting their hopes in erasmus, in research and development, in the fight against climate change. i'm also particularly pleased to see that we have many soldiers who are willing to give their lives. we owe them a response in the field of foreign and security policy, and that can only be done with a reasonably equipped multiannual financial framework, because that is what sets the stage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he mustn't forget that he has to count us in. if you hear that, for example, the cohesion countries - those countries which benefit most from cohesion policy - should be given more flexibility in the system of implementation, that is good, but it is not a solution for sufficient funds. if we hear that we as budgetary legislators should be given more flexibility, that is good, but it is no substitute for lack of resources. it is very important that we do not play games, as the motto goes: 'we give you too little money for too many tasks as the european parliament, and then you may end up having to decide, with budgetary flexibility, who you are hurting most'. we are all in the same boat here, and i ask you to put charles michel on the same page in case one of your colleagues should meet him before 20 february. this is very important: we are in the same boat together; and we have to go step by step now, systemic issues can be solved afterwards. the question of equipment is really the focus of attention.
i have to say, madam president, the european parliament adopted a resolution today to express our determination to combat female genital mutilation. unfortunately, once again, this is nothing more than symbolism, it is just empty declarations. the fight against female genital mutilation cannot be fought by making speeches or putting stickers on one's chest, but at the same time, as happened here in december, it can be fought by rejecting my initiative to extend the istanbul convention resolution on female genital mutilation. it is also not helpful to create a priority asylum for girls who have been subjected to female genital mutilation. it is only creating further incentives to subject more girls to this inhuman practice, so that they can be sent to europe as anchor children. it is also useless to pretend that this cruel crime has nothing to do with a particular culture or a particular religion, because we all know that islam is a culture of disrespect for women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its future work.
i have to say, madam president, we have voted today on a resolution on female genital mutilation. what are we talking about? who does it concern? it affects young girls, usually between the ages of five and 13. these girls are having their clitoris removed with a razor blade without anesthesia, their outer labia are being cut off, their inner labia are being cut off, and then they are being sewn, usually from top to bottom, until there's only a very small hole left. on the day they get married, on their wedding night, they're cut open by their husband with a knife. this incredible barbarity has been endured by 200 million women in the 21st century, 200 million women. and where does that happen? it happens to them in islamic countries; and we need to talk about it and we need to get it out in the open. it happens in islamic countries. with immigration, this incredible barbarism has also come to europe. 600 000 women are now affected here too. we have to stop this madness.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. you just briefly mentioned that . digital technologies are increasingly disadvantaging poor people. we are all increasingly being monitored around the world. but it is especially treacherous for those who are dependent on the support of society. in europe, such a system was put to an end last week in court for human rights violations. this is the dutch syri system, which is designed to predict which welfare recipients are more likely to commit fraud. this involves aggregating vast amounts of highly personal data and analyzing it with a secret algorithm without democratic control. but the welfare state is called social because it is for the people, and digital systems that humiliate and spy on people have no place there. co-author: why hasn't anyone thought of looking where the state lacks the huge sums we need to invest in digital education? why don't we use artificial intelligence to expose tax evasion? the standards that would be set by such a system are urgently needed.
the commission has already done so. i am very pleased that we are talking today about the implications of digitalisation for a social europe. digitalization brings us huge opportunities, but unfortunately also great, great risks. we must be prepared and we must act. we need to invest in infrastructure, for example. germany, for example, has one of the worst mobile phone networks in the world. in france, 13 million people still don't have internet. we need to talk about education. almost half of the eu population is not even able to use digital media. there's an incredible amount of work to be done. and what particularly concerns me are the rights of workers. i would like to speak about the work of the platform. so it cannot be that more and more people are living in working conditions where they have no rights, where the working time regulation does not apply, where there is no participation, where there is no protection against dismissal. so there's a lot to do, let's get to it!
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i note that the bureau is terribly afraid of national flags, which i consider a great shame. i'm going to follow the call and have my national flag removed now. but we are talking about the eu's gender equality strategy. there is already equality between the sexes, because we are all born equal. men and women - no one will deny that although men and women have the same values, they have very different inclinations, including strengths and weaknesses. men and women face different challenges. but instead of blaming men, and even making them pay for supposedly imaginary advantages, why does the commission not concentrate on promoting gender harmony? why not encourage men to be men and encourage women to be women? shouldn't inequality in the workplace, which favors either women or men, be addressed by nation states and corporations? but no, it must be dictated by the eu central office. why don't you let families decide who does the dishes, raises the kids, brings the money home? i look forward to the day when the commission presents an action plan to make breastfeeding more equitable between mothers and fathers. why are women told that they are worth something only if they go to work? this is an incredible degradation and discrimination against all those women who consciously choose to do family work. but no, you're determined to force women into the workforce. but it's interesting that the women's quotas are only called for in the executive offices. where are the women's quotas for bricklayers, truck drivers, canal workers? stop making people into objects for your social experiments. stop trying to re-educate people. stop trying to make people fit into your delusional notions of society. let the people be people again!
i have to say, madam president, the great american president ronald reagan once said that the ten worst words in the english language are: "hi, i'm from the government and i'm here to help you". the question of the sexes in relation to each other is one of the most intimate, personal and individual human affairs. and the idea that the european union now has its own strategy and that it means that it has to intervene is - regardless of whether what is in the strategy is right or wrong - always wrong. it is an invasion of the state into individual life, and that is not right, that is illiberal, that is totalitarian. but we know - and our colleagues on the left have made it clear - that this is all about pushing forward our own design of the destruction of the family and ultimately a socialist transformation of the most individual of what we have. that is precisely why we are against it.
blue-card question. – thank you for this statement. i have one personal question: what do you think men can do to encourage women, and do you think that there’s more action needed by men? do you think that men should step down more, or do you think that woman should improve? what is your personal opinion on this issue? since we are all politicians, what can you do to increase the number of women politicians in your party as well?
i have to say, madam president, mrs dalli, i am very pleased that we are now entering this process of strategy with such energy, and i am also pleased that our parliament's resolution, which we are voting on tomorrow, has a strong foreign policy dimension. because on the one hand, solidarity makes us stronger as women, and on the other hand, we have seen in so many peace negotiations, and this is also scientifically proven: the more women at the negotiating table, the longer the peace lasts. i also think it's important that we touch our own noses. i am often very embarrassed when we travel abroad with ep delegations and there are only men; i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i would be very happy if we could not just go into this strategy in terms of domestic policy and not just point fingers at others, but actually look at our own noses and look at our own structures. i think you have a strong supporter in us greens, but not just there. keep going! that would be very nice.
on behalf of the id group. i have to say, madam president, the european parliament now sets out its priorities for the united nations commission on the status of women and wants to be convinced that the only way to strengthen women's rights is to finally accept abortion as a means of contraception; that women can only achieve their full potential if full lgbti rights are guaranteed; that women's financial independence can only be guaranteed if they do not share their lives with a partner; the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that women could only be promoted to management positions by means of statutory quotas. my god, how arrogant, ridiculous and sexist it is to say that women cannot move forward in life without the eu! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that women's rights are not violated. one of the greatest achievements of a civilized society is the pacification of public space, and we in europe have largely achieved this, and now we sacrifice these achievements on the altar of diversity, tolerance and humanity, and even derisively call it cultural enrichment. as a woman, i enjoy the freedom of movement in europe as much as any man. so before we call for ridiculous quota arrangements in resolutions and thus open up completely irrelevant secondary theatres of war, i ask: what is the european parliament doing to protect us women from alleged asylum seekers?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i grew up in europe, and growing up, i always thought that human rights abuses, that state arbitrariness, that humanitarian crises were something that happened elsewhere, that couldn't happen in european member states. and then i was on a sea rescue mission in the mediterranean, and i found that we support islamist militias there more than the people who are fleeing from those militias. and i was in lesbos, and i met two young syrians who asked me, "why is europe treating us like animals?" i don't have an answer for that. and last weekend i was also in croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. it's not just individual ngos that are talking about pushbacks there, but it's also the eu delegation in bosnia, it's unhcr, it's your own human rights commissioner in croatia, a government agency that assumes there are a lot of pushbacks there. you see violence everywhere. so what's really happening at the external borders? we've made rules for ourselves that we don't follow because we have other interests. i don't think that's how a defensive democracy works in the long run. i believe in the european union, but i would like to believe even more in what we are, and not in what we want to be in these speeches. if the commission is serious about what has been said, then the point is to show, for example, in croatia: we are allowing an independent human rights monitoring mechanism there, we are also allowing people there at the external borders to monitor what is happening there together with the border guards and the border police. it would be very important for croatia to show that it has nothing to hide. this human rights monitoring mechanism could help. but you refuse to set it up. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i've already said something about that. but i also wonder what it means when you just blame all the investigative journalists, state media in germany for example, who find out that there are pushbacks, who make video recordings of pushbacks ... and you claim that it is fake news. what is this understanding of freedom of the press? i can't imagine what it's like to have to run. but i think if you've had that experience, you'd do well to talk to the people in bosnia, the people we talked to over the weekend, who were beaten, who were really whipped, and who really didn't do these injuries to themselves.
mr president, we cannot look at refugees as an external affair because being a refugee is a defining right for many of us. many generations of europeans, including those in my country who escaped the fascist horror of franco 81 years ago, saved their lives thanks to their refugee status. today there are refugee children and grandchildren sitting in this parliament and who knows whether, unfortunately, there are also parents and grandparents of future refugees? but being a refugee goes hand in hand with being a welcoming host. europe, the daughter of refugees, must be a safe haven for refugees. anyone seeking refuge, fleeing from wars, whether wars fought with weapons or with the economy, must feel that europe is home – not to atone for the sins of colonialism, but to accelerate progress and peace in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. today, we're also talking about the croatian border. in both cases, our asylum and migration policies can only work if they comply with international and european law, if they uphold our humanitarian standards. but at the same time it can only work if we finally arrive at a stringent and consistent ghg. the protection of the external border is a fundamental condition for this. the same applies to greece, croatia and all other countries bordering the eu: we expect and support compliance with the rules, but we do not leave you to take responsibility for yourselves. this must be the european approach. i ask the council and the commission: if the situation on the western balkans route, the increasing numbers of illegal border crossings or the instability in europe's neighbourhood do not make us launch an ambitious and sustainable asylum and migration package, if we do not use this window of opportunity, what then?
mr president, two weeks ago we discussed the situation on the greek islands, and i’m asking myself how much has really changed on the ground since we talked about it. and the answer is: the situation has got worse. we haven’t done anything at eu level to make the situation better. yes, we still give money, but in the end, the idea of creating a floating barrier to stop people even asking for asylum and the overcrowding in the camps is still so bad that people are protesting now – both the local population and the refugees. so i would ask us to stop the blame game between the council and the commission and act on both sides, as much as we can, to improve the situation on the ground. that means, on the commission side, triggering the civil protection mechanism today, and, on the council side, actually accepting minors and refugees, who need our help so badly on the ground. let us actually act today and not tomorrow.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. you said you shouldn't accept anyone you haven't invited. but it is also true, for example, that i did not invite you here at all, we did not invite all of you here, but it is your good right to sit here because we have a rule of law, because elections are held there, rule of law, and you were elected. and it's also the fact that you have an asylum system where you don't have to invite people, but where they have basic rights. i was actually gonna ask you who you think is coming. because we know that there are also many problems in the world, many refugees. would you really say that they should have no access to due process at all?
i have to say, madam president, we have debated in this house over and over again the unresolved migration crisis. why would you do that? because the eu still refuses to recognise the realities on its borders and to respond accordingly. we discuss the treatment of so-called refugees, let the asylum industry tell us what is human and how we should act. this is as far from reality as you can get. it's not that difficult to solve this problem. seal off the borders, deny entry to any illegal immigrants. it also means that the boats will be returned safely to their place of origin. illegal migrants must be returned, if necessary with some pressure on the countries of origin. if a country refuses, effective sanctions must follow. on the one hand, we are happy to allow any illegal immigrant into the country without controls, but on the other hand, you have recently required a phytosanitary certificate if you bring back plants and fruit from your holiday. how absurd is that? let's finally set the right signals! let us finally take up our responsibility towards the european citizen, let us prevent the numerous deaths in the mediterranean, let us prevent the brain drain in the countries of origin and let us finally put an end to the battle of emotions! let's close the borders!
(mike starts speaking) ...talk and things move further and further back. this is a gross misrepresentation of the other members who want to speak on other subjects. so you finally start leading the meeting and then you end it after a minute. this is not working!
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. if there is any mischief on the horizon, one thing is certain: the eu is on board. studies, but also many teachers, confirm that increased internet use leads, first, to decreased concentration, second, to a decline in social skills, third, to the transformation of thin children into fat couch potatoes, and fourth, to the loss of writing skills, since this technique can only be implanted in the brain at an early age through constant practice. we're not even talking about the dangers of content on the internet to children - whether it's spying, grooming, or confronting violence, pornography, and fake news. the eu should therefore not encourage children to use the internet, because even the supposedly harmless, but mostly infinitely stupid games lead to a loss of concentration and take time away from other more beautiful, more important things. the eu should not see itself as a proxy for the digital industry, which wants to reach younger consumers as early as possible. just as you protect your children from alcohol and pornography, you should protect them from things that can lead them astray.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the strategy 'from the farm to the table' 'the important role of farmers and rural areas' by norbert lins, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-000013/2020 b99/-0002020) (2020/2542 ((rsp)). you know that you can still send us your spontaneous messages and your interim questions, both with the card and electronically here.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. commissioner, we would have liked to have spoken to your colleague mr timmermans today and not about him, because a farm-to-fork strategy without us agricultural politicians is a no-go. it is not right to talk about our farmers as if they were all criminals. they will go back to the streets if they do not understand your laws, because they do not work and do not operate according to whim or the motto 'much fertiliser helps a lot', but according to the guidelines of the eu and the member states. if timmermans now wants to drastically reduce pesticides and improve the quality of food, then fine, but we're not starting from scratch. it is common practice to reduce and optimise the use of fertilisers and pesticides. the latest findings from the official food inspectorate confirm that food from europe is by far the safest in the world. so don't play with the fire of fake news. look for good solutions and not for guilty ones! our farmers are open to innovative ideas. but if the market, the consumer, does not pay for and honor the additional conditions, restrictions and prohibitions, then the house of timmermans must pay. we can give up a lot in life, but not our daily bread. and that is why we need and value our farmers in europe. agriculture and forestry are the only sectors that produce oxygen and capture carbon dioxide, which means that they make for a good climate. i would ask mr timmermans to ensure that the political climate is good and that our farmers are not left out in the cold. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not sure. you know that the "biofach" is being held in nuremberg. there are farmers who can produce bread without pesticides. you're acting like you have to use pesticides and fertilizers all the time. the question is: would you be prepared to support this sector even more? we have had a popular demand in bavaria that clearly says: we must get off the crowds. you're just pretending like this is all okay. is that your view, or do we need to change something?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! you're accusing me of things i didn't say. we're always on the cutting edge of reducing pesticides and fertilizers and optimizing the whole thing. do not pretend that organic farming does not involve the use of fertilizers and pesticides. there is such a thing. by the way, i'm in the bio class tomorrow. so i'm not hiding, i'm talking to all of you. and the question is, "now i've lost the thread, that happens sometimes". but the question i would like to put to you, to mrs wiener, is: ask her why she is still receiving eu support for her operation when she is ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. president, please! european farmers are already producing the highest quality, safest food and in an environmentally and animal-friendly way. the green deal is only possible if we work with farmers. it's the farmers who will do it, not anyone else. it is therefore essential to have a network of strategies, from the green deal to the fork-to-fork strategy, the common agricultural policy, measures that stimulate farmers rather than prohibit them. we must do everything we can to make farming interesting for young people, without making people afraid of farming. we need to support family farms, to reduce the use of pesticides and fertilisers through precision farming, and to encourage farming that is friendly to people, the environment and animals. we need to support short chains that allow food producers to earn a fair income and consumers to compete on price, to prevent large retailers from hindering farmers and to reduce food waste. we will achieve this goal through positive action, not through prohibition and fear.
mr president, commissioner, a comprehensive review of the food system is absolutely necessary, both from the point of view of the environment and the producer. the farm-to-table strategy is a very good way of assessing this whole long food chain, but it must not mean limiting ourselves to the top end. the strategy must therefore look beyond the farmer and the farm level: storage, processing, packaging, distribution and food waste. they all have an impact outside the premises, but they are reflected both at the premises and in the environment. the unfair commercial practices directive was hopefully just the beginning. it must be understood that only a profitable farm can produce food and be good for the environment. this strategy therefore needs to provide an even stronger foundation for the sustainability of the entire food chain, including in terms of farm profitability and the livelihood of the producer. as a farmer myself, i can be satisfied. we just had a generational change. commissioner, that is what we must strive for: to enable young europeans to continue in this valuable profession.
i just want to make one announcement, and that is that i would like to close the nominations for the spontaneous word messages with this moment. we have enough nominations. i would just like to point out that there are also people on the list who spoke in the main debate, and i will not take them into account. and those who have given a 'blue card' during the main debate will not be able to get in either. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already made a statement on the subject.
the commission has already done so. the ambitious objectives of the farm-to-fork strategy will only be achieved with agriculture, not against it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. the core task of our farms is to produce healthy food, and our role as politicians is to create the conditions for this. it is of the utmost importance to me that the commission, in the framework of the farm-to-fork strategy, ensures the competitiveness of our farms in the eu vis-à-vis the international market. additional requirements, such as the reduction of pesticides, will only be feasible if the commission and the european parliament are open to the authorization and use of new technologies. we also need fair remuneration for agricultural products and recognition of the contribution of our farmers to society. the consumer plays a key role in this. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of labelling for foodstuffs.
author. mr president, the republic of guinea is going through a difficult period, marked by increased violence that threatens democratic stability. political power and sovereignty are and must remain in the hands of the people. the will of the people must be respected and reflected in the institutions of the state. since last year, when a referendum was announced to amend the constitution, the political opposition and civil society have challenged the draft and the political climate has turned violent. during the protests, abuses from all sides took place. police violence has caused many casualties, which has caused great emotion, even concern, within the international community, for example when the police used a woman as a shield to protect themselves from stone-throwing protesters. the whole world has been shocked by this upsurge in violence. the crucial question that can be asked is: where does this violence come from, what causes it? we encourage guinea to engage in dialogue to find appropriate responses to this crucial issue and to establish other participatory processes that allow for the peaceful and inclusive consideration of different political views. we urge guinea to do everything possible to put an end to this harmful situation. it is unacceptable that protesters are beaten, tear gas fired and subjected to other abuses. we deplore the deaths of all those who lost their lives in these protests. the guinean government emphasised guinea's sovereignty and stated that no other state or external political actor could make decisions for the country. yet, within the country, groups of the population who do not support the policy chosen by the government in power should not be excluded or threatened. it is important for the european union to develop our partnership with africa, to develop and diversify our relations with diverse actors, to support the rule of law, human rights and the so-called inclusive democratic process at home and with our partners in africa.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. once upon a time, president alpha condé was the hope for a democratic future in the republic of guinea. today, at the end of his second term, parliamentary elections are being postponed and a constitutional amendment is being sought, and it is believed that he is seeking a third term. worse, demonstrations are being crushed; demonstrations that are coming up because this constitutional amendment has just been proposed, and these are people who are saying: we do not agree with this, we want democratic elections to be held as our constitution provides in our country. but the government is crushing these demonstrations, arresting the opposition, and, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow that and we condemn that in the strongest terms. we expect the government to respect human and civil rights; but above all, that opposition members are immediately released if they are arrested for political reasons, and we expect that the right to demonstrate is respected so that people can express their opinions. it would be best if these people could finally express their views in a parliamentary election, because democratic elections are what the people of the republic of guinea deserve now, and this should take place very soon. there must be no further postponement, the draft constitutional amendment must be withdrawn. alpha condé cannot have a third term, but the people of guinea must have the floor now.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am a little surprised that the republic of guinea is the subject of this emergency meeting. we are all aware of the demonstrations and the violence in the country, but there is a lot of conjecture and assumptions in this resolution. even the advice that the secretariat of the droi committee at amnesty international has obtained is cautious in its claims, and indeed it also speaks of violent demonstrations against the government. then we should not be surprised if there is also a violent reaction from the security forces. president condé was the first democratically elected president of the republic of guinea, and he has stated that he wants to reform the constitution because it is a relic of the colonial era. this is not a dictatorship, he is offering a referendum on this issue, there are also elections planned which will give the voters the opportunity to decide for themselves the future of the republic of guinea. one of the problems is that some opposition parties are threatening not only to boycott the elections but also to not hold them at all. instead of the megaphone diplomacy that these emergency debates represent over and over again, perhaps we can work constructively with the authorities. the people of the republic of guinea have the choice to change their constitution, and a referendum is a democratic way forward. let us keep out of things that are none of our business and stop making statements that can only make a serious situation worse.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on child labour in the mines of madagascar (2020/2552 ((rsp)).
i have six reports from three groups for the following procedure of spontaneous reports. i would like to do it again in such a way that i take one word message per group. i'll see if the commissioner can come up with a relatively short response time. then i'd like to do it this way now, if she doesn't mind. spontaneous speech
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
mr president, on the roll call vote we just did, just to check, the wrong amendment was announced on the screen. we voted on the first one, not the second one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i voted against this resolution. of course we are for women's rights and we must support them. but here, we're talking about some nonsense like early childhood sex education to help them find their gender identity. so to me, that's sick. we have different problems. in germany, for example, a woman is murdered every three days. the number of murders has risen sharply since 2013, and domestic violence cases in germany have risen sharply since 2014. in 2014, there were 103,000 cases, in 2018 there were 114,000 cases. the perpetrators are mostly immigrants. and not only are the perpetrators immigrants, but also the victims. i have figures from my hometown of essen. the women seeking refuge in women's shelters are 70% migrant women. these are real problems, and we need to point out real problems.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the coronavirus is a threat to the health and lives of the population, but it is also affecting our economy more and more severely. travel, conventions, trade shows are canceled, supply chains are disrupted. the revenue is falling, but the expenditure is staying. in short, even healthy companies are now in liquidity distress, regardless of their business model or performance. i think we need two things in this situation. the first is that we must protect workers and, in order to do so, provide a liquidity bridge for companies, particularly those which have been put in this situation through no fault of their own. for that, we need ways of simplifying short-time work. we need tax payments and social security payments spread over several months. we must make bridging loans available because cheap money is there. but these credit decisions have to be made faster. and it certainly needs government guarantees to back it up. and then, if we need an eu notification here, then this too must be done faster. secondly, we need a growth pact so that we can invest in growth and strengthen the small and mediumsized enterprises and cut red tape.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you very much for this debate, and it shows very clearly why we really need more europe. we have a joint centre with the ecdc, the european centre for disease prevention and control, for this very situation. but unfortunately, this does not mean that all member states will follow the recommendations of the centre. instead, we are witnessing a micro-state in the european union, where each member state is promoting its own ideas. even in my own country, within the states, the response is very different. i think there's still room upstairs for us to get better. and on air: i find it incomprehensible that in the financial crisis we could easily suspend this idiotic regulation that an airline loses its take-off and landing slots if it does not use them 80% of the time. now, gd move is responding to a specific request from an airline whether this would not be appropriate in the case of corona, and gd move is saying: no, that is not necessary. now planes are flying around empty. what kind of bullshit is that?
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the special session of the european council of 20 february 2020 on the multiannual financial framework (2020/2575 ((rsp)). i would like to point out that the president of the council is only allowed to attend this meeting for 30 minutes. we're glad you came.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the microphones were still working. you have obviously not followed my advice to be satisfied with the sparrow in your hand, that is to say, with the council's proposal of 1.07%, and not to dream of the dove on the roof, that is to say, the 1.3% of parliament. now the negotiations have reached an impasse, because, as we say in our country, money is where friendship ends. good advice is expensive now. i see this scenario, and i only see one: the brave, thrifty four, denmark, sweden, the netherlands and austria, will continue to set the agenda and, thank god, will be able to maintain their position on a lasting basis thanks to the unanimity principle. the german presidency of the council in the second half of the year will also, in my view, fail to reach agreement on the medium-term financial framework. article 312 (4) tfeu shall then enter into force. we are then back to the ceilings and other provisions of the previous mff, with a maximum of 1% of total national income, but without discounts. this is considerably less than the 1.07 per cent figure for the sparrow in the hand. or are you speculating that paymaster germany will in turn feed the eu's enormous hunger for money? we in the afd would not mind if you were to get into trouble with the german taxpayer, coinciding with the 2021 federal election.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu is giving athens €700 million. there is a threat of a new economic crisis. the coronavirus. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. when we are most challenged, we need a strong eu. we are all the more disappointed by the failure of the summit. instead of big decisions, there were small-scale bargains. but in the midst of the climate crisis and the beginning of a new economic crisis, we can no longer afford these nationalist power struggles. the netherlands, austria, sweden, denmark and the german federal government are the main responsible parties and have done everything to ensure that the summit fails. this is irresponsible! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. if you want us to work together across europe to develop a coronavirus drug, you cannot cut billions from eu research programmes at the same time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's migration policy is not disrupted by the crisis. and those who fear a new economic crisis must now stand up for joint investment. we need more courage from the member states, but also from the european commission. what happened to your promise, madame von der leyen? how do you finance your green deal? what happened to the tripling of erasmus programmes? how do you think that's gonna work? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we need it badly. we need a strong financial framework. the present situation cannot continue.
i have to say, madam president, why is it so difficult to agree on this multiannual financial framework? because with britain, a large net contributor has been lost. so it's clear from the outset that everyone will pay more and get less out of this budget. that is the thinking that member states always have, unfortunately. they just look at what they put in, what they get out. it's not just the frugal four who are selfish, it's everyone. everyone's just looking at what's coming in, what's coming out. and the symbol of that was mrs thatcher, who at one point threw her purse on the table and said, 'i want my money back.' i think it is time for mrs von der leyen to throw her purse on the table and not say 'i want my money' but 'we need our money' and to have a strong, modern budget that will make future challenges possible. if everyone is talking about strengthening border controls and support for migration, then it is not possible that the latest discussions are about cuts of 14 billion euros compared to the commission's proposal. this is ridiculous, and a european parliament will not approve a budget which is not adequately financed in the key challenges for the future.
i have to say, madam president, there are people - and we heard this today - who say that after the uk has left the eu, it has become smaller and needs a smaller budget. but that depends on the kind of europe we want. a europe that is small and weak and that is technologically dependent on the great powers, the united states and china? or do we not want a strong europe, with a strong budget to promote climate change and social justice, to finance the digital agenda and the digital europe programme? that's what we want. a strong europe with cutting-edge technology, and that is not free. but an ambitious budget also requires a rule of law mechanism, which is not a toothless tiger. european citizens must be able to trust that corrupt oligarchs are not financing themselves with eu funds, and we expect more from the council. we welcome the though tentative opening of the gender budgeting council. the only way to have a sound budget is to know exactly which people are receiving the funds and how they are being supported. women are half the population, they hold half the power and half the eu budget.
i have to say, madam president, we are talking today about the next multiannual financial framework, and i think it is also necessary to say that we lose many millions of taxpayers' money every year in the eu to corruption. we have a systematic problem in a number of member states. for example, transparency international has shown that millions of eu taxpayers' money are going to the billionaire and prime minister babiş. and at the same time, we see in the budget that we are spending far too little money on the institutions that are supposed to prevent exactly that: corruption, fraud, mismanagement. olaf, eurojust, the european public prosecutor's office - all have too few resources, and at the same time we do not tie membership of these institutions, especially the european public prosecutor's office, to the european budget. this means that compliance with the basic rules and the fight against corruption are not linked to the disbursement of eu funds. i don't think we can do that. it's a betrayal of our values. we need a functioning rule of law mechanism that finally ensures that corruption is fought, that the basic values are respected. that must be the condition for eu funds.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the situation of migrants at the greek-turkish border and the eu's joint response (2020/2594 ((rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, we stand by greece in this difficult situation. i am absolutely opposed to this, because we must not allow ourselves to be blackmailed by president erdoğan. and in particular, we cannot do what he wants, which is to transfer the money from the deal directly to the turkish treasury. perhaps we should also ask ourselves whether we are not better off investing this money directly in syria, where it is really needed. because the european union is a community of values, and in syria we can show that we are also applying those values. i also think it is right that we send more staff from frontex and easo to greece at this time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also clear to me that the situation in the refugee camps in greece is unacceptable for a member state of the european union and that this must change urgently. i hope that as many member states as possible will take part in this, in particular to get the most vulnerable of the weak, the children, out of there.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation on the turkish-greek border is a humanitarian disaster. but what we must not forget and emphasize in this debate is that the reason for this is actually the war in syria. revolution and war are now entering their ninth year. this war, which is contrary to international law and human rights, must not be forgotten behind the debate on the quote maintenance of order at our external borders. we therefore urgently need humanitarian corridors to idlib to help the people there in their distress now, and we must finally stop bombing this country into rubble and ash. at the same time, we must document the war crimes of this war and support ngos in this. the european union must strengthen its capacity to prosecute war crimes. it must promote the establishment of an international war crimes tribunal. the eu and individual member states must also use the fragile ceasefire to bring all the actors directly and indirectly involved to the negotiating table in multilateral formats ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. last week i was at the turkish-greek border. there i saw wounded people, exhausted people being chased from side to side. i have seen people uprooted and displaced, people fleeing wars and weapons also made in europe . i've seen children, children crying and playing at the same time. what i saw there is a disgrace to the european union. we on the left have been warning against the refugee pact with mr erdoğan all along. he's using refugees for his dirty politics. but the eu is still sticking to that dirty pact. what is being played here is not being played in my name. there are not only those who want to watch over and over again. many cities, many citizens in europe are ready to take in people and to help people. and now there 's an emergency ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. with the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, we are witnessing a global challenge of biblical proportions in these weeks. i am shocked by the images and videos from the hospitals, i find the slow public life almost ghostly, and i have spoken in the past few days with many who are worried about their personal health, their work, their company and their family. by now, everyone should have understood that global challenges cannot be solved by walls, borders and national isolation, but that global challenges are best solved by working together. we need european solidarity and not nationalism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. if the border closures prevent skilled workers from reaching their workbenches, if nurses cannot work, and if there are no harvest workers in agriculture, then it does not help anyone. if some media these days are biased against citizens of other eu countries, that does not help anyone. but there are also glimpses of light: if people are getting better at adhering to the constraints, facing new challenges and making their personal contribution in the family and in the workplace, that is europe. when the european disaster relief fund provides money and regional and structural funding is activated to fight the coronavirus and its consequences, then this is europe. when patients from italy and france are transferred to hospitals in germany that still have room today, that is europe. if protective equipment and ventilators are delivered to the place where they are most needed, that is europe. if researchers also use european funds to research tests, vaccines, medicines and treatment options across borders, then this is europe. if these days many people are willing to sacrifice themselves and make their contribution, then that is europe. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. i would like to thank all those who have taken up their responsibilities in these difficult days, wherever and whenever they may be.
mr president, i thank all those who have worked responsibly on these proposals so that the european parliament can debate them today in such limited circumstances. this is primarily about 37 billion euros available immediately to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus pandemic on the health of citizens and the economy. our first priority must be to stop the spread of the virus and protect life. i support the allocation of 50 million euros for rescue and joint equipment procurement and 37.5 million euros for european scientists. they're going to work together to find a vaccine. the new industrial strategy must ensure strategic autonomy in the production of medicines and medical devices, as the european union is clearly heavily dependent on imports. unfortunately, the consequences of this crisis will be far greater than the 2008 crisis. let's apply the lessons learned, strengthen social investment and mitigate the consequences for the most vulnerable groups. this is a good one, but it's a first step. specific measures are needed for smes and micro-enterprises, the backbone of the european economy. as many as 95% of them in croatia have already been exposed to the consequences of the crisis. the closure of the tourism sector this year will threaten the budget sustainability of member states like croatia, which generates almost a quarter of its budget from tourism revenue and connects tourism with other sectors such as transport and agriculture. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. welcomes the announcement of an extraordinary programme of joint bond purchases amounting to eur 750 billion and the activation of an additional eur 500 billion from the european stability mechanism; we especially need social measures to ensure minimum compensation for those who will be left without income. we should provide guarantees to anyone with a mortgage on a single property. the structural and cohesion funds will play a key role. they have always been one of the main sources of public investment and a necessary tool for economic and social recovery. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. i therefore welcome the commission's decision to approve a package of direct aid to the health systems of the western balkan countries worth eur 38 million with a reallocation of eur 373 million for social and economic recovery. financial assistance to countries that are geographically part of europe and surrounded by member states is important. this is a political message about the future of the enlargement process, and it comes in the week when north macedonia and albania finally got the go-ahead to start negotiations. finally, i want to thank all the members who have helped croatia and the city of zagreb after the devastating earthquake on sunday. in difficult times, faced with the consequences of two crises at once, your solidarity is the best reminder of the union's common values: united in diversity, but united in solidarity.
mr president, i am very pleased that parliament is in session today, showing that democracy functions even in times of crisis. of course, we will all keep a safe distance today so that together we can beat this monster. to those who say that the eu has done nothing, that’s not true: the eu has acted. today, we’re voting on a package for financial assistance – on relief for airlines. the commission has been creating green lanes at borders and giving money to researchers to develop a vaccine, and the european central bank has taken out its extra big eur 750 billion bazooka. but at the same time, people are understandably disappointed to see 27 different lockdown regimes, long queues at closed borders and governments bickering over masks and test kits. they see how europe turns to china and the russian army for medical supplies and to american tech giants for teleworking and social media. and even at a time like this, unfortunately, nationalist reflexes get the upper hand. no solidarity, no unity. a divided intergovernmental europe is a weak europe, and a minimal, technocratic europe is unable to give the political responses needed to fight the virus. of course, our first priority is to fight this crisis now and ensure health and safety for all europeans. but we also have to draw the lessons: the choices we make today will determine the readiness of the european union for the new post-corona world order, and if we don’t care to think about that now, i can tell you that the united states, russia and china will. once normal life resumes, parliament should take the lead. as we did after the financial crisis, we should invite the government leaders to come to this plenary and debate with us how to fundamentally – not reform, but transform – the european union and make it ready for the new post-corona world order.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. what the coronavirus crisis has shown us is that there are things that work in the crisis and things that don't work. it is not just my group's imagination that the european union was not in charge of action in the crisis, but that it was the nation states that acted. they have taken action where it was necessary, and we are the ones who are running after them. the budget we are voting on today is also a drop in the bucket compared with what is now being imposed on emergency programmes in the national states. and that's totally right. because in the nation states and in the regions, the people know where the shoe is on the other foot, and the citizens know their politicians, because it is close and because democracy works there, where a feedback from the power to those who elected them takes place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're going to have a huge need for aid programs to revive the economy after this shutdown. we will have to ask ourselves: is not this concrete aid more important than a green deal? is it not time to consider whether what we hold so dear here - from the climate emergency to the gender strategy - is not less important than the concrete help? and so, too, is not what is politically concrete in structures - because people know it and because it is democratically legitimated - more important than the next european working group and the next federal idea that we are sensing here? in this sense, the crisis is a wake-up call to bring us back to reality, to move away from ideology and towards real politics. and that is what we stand for, and if the eu wants to have a chance, it should join this trend. it should be realistic again and stop chasing a cloud cuckoo home that nobody needs and that collapses in the first crisis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. nothing will ever be the same again. covid-19 has changed the world, europe, countries and its people. my thoughts are with the victims and their families, and i would also like to call for a moment of silence. we need to find sustainable solutions to combat the virus and to deal with the economic damage. we should now turn the principle of subsidiarity into a principle of solidarity. we must be able to cope with this crisis only if we are united and show solidarity. in order to create the legal basis, we should also declare a state of emergency. our eu now needs a uniform, binding framework in many areas. we are a community of states and we should live it now to be there for the weakest. i'm confident we can contain the virus. but the overall impact will concern us for years to come. people are expecting solutions, and that is going to be a very challenging thing for us over the next six to seven years. a complete rethinking is needed to open up new paths. parliamentary work must continue unabated. but you can still maintain social distancing and hygiene measures to protect yourself. covid-19 is not and should not be a barrier to this. i think white weeks are a fatal mistake. we are called upon to do something very special at this time. we have no time to lose and should even consider extending this legislative period to 2026 for planning security. the peak of the forthcoming regulations will be in 2024/2025. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would therefore ask you to think about it. there should be no thought-ban in the fight against covid-19 and its consequences. we must act decisively, quickly and sustainably, and also have the planning certainty to reorganize and improve the living conditions of the people of europe in a sustainable way. we have responsibilities that we must now live up to. i am sure that together, together and in solidarity, we will succeed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are proving today how fast and unbureaucratic the european union can be. with the new version of the slot rules, we are preventing planes from having to fly without passengers during the corona crisis, just to avoid losing take-off and landing rights. the aviation and tourism industries are dramatically affected this new regulation helps. but we also need measures concerning passenger rights and the package travel directive. i think that the commission must do more. liquidity is the biggest problem for companies right now. this is particularly true of the medium-sized economy. people are afraid of the virus, but they are also afraid of their jobs, their businesses. we must support this so that structures do not break down. the package of measures we are adopting today is a step in the right direction. however, the measures are not enough for the fisheries sector. this is where more tools are needed. i would ask the commission to inform us of its further plans. this crisis - the corona crisis - is a stress test for our liberal democracy. the restriction of civil liberties is hard to bear. but to stop the spread of the virus, it seems necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. firstly, it is proportionality - and i want to make it clear that the measures taken in hungary are not proportional - and secondly, the measures must be temporary. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am sure that we will overcome this crisis, and if we do it right, we will emerge from this crisis stronger as europeans and as the european union.
in writing. the situation is serious. most of us have never experienced anything like it. a continent is at a standstill, borders and airports are closed, entire countries have imposed curfews. and while the economic impact is still unclear, we can feel the impact coming. volkswagen is closing its factories, entire airlines are going bankrupt, the stock market gains of recent years have been wiped out in a matter of weeks. so one does not have to be a pessimist in the face of these reports to come to the conviction that we are facing the most severe economic crisis since the end of the second world war. so it is imperative that we work together to devise strategies to help small and mediumsized enterprises, the backbone of our economy, through this crisis. it would be good if there were a genuine industrial policy here in brussels, which would ask how we can bring back to europe the industrial production that has been diverted. unfortunately, the opposite is true. the commission is still sticking to the so-called 'green deal', a programme that would have been devastating for european industry even without the coronavirus crisis. i therefore ask that this madness be stopped, because the money is needed more urgently elsewhere! let us once again pursue an industrial policy worthy of the name.
mr president, i want to urge you to send a call to order to one of the members who is not here today, because he wrote a tweet on twitter, and i quote, ‘if a eur 323 attendance fee is more important to you than the health of the people in the european union’ … ‘you’d rather go to the european parliament to collect money ...’ etc., etc. – and then he mentioned me in person – which means we have a colleague who is at home and blames all of us that we are here today not because we want to give a speech and we want to debate, but only for financial reasons. as far as i can see we have today the novum that we have a split session which is partly present and partly at home. that means that you also have the right to discipline those who are at home. at least from my understanding of what is right, this is a violation of rule 10 of the rules of procedure. i therefore ask you to apply the measures foreseen in title vii, chapter 4, and to ask the member to delete this tweet immediately and to express his sorrow over his misbehaviour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. louis xvi was hunting when his messenger brought him news of the storming of the bastille. this is a rebellion, except for the king. no, sire, the revolution. ludwig hunted, we are debating: in january on the green deal, climate action and the future of europe and in february on the third gender and human rights in madagascar. a top official in madrid even calmly remarked - in february, mind you - that he expects only a handful of corona-infected people. asylum for the world, climate emergency and gender mania are collective symptoms of a neurotic evasion of the struggle of self-assertion and the omnipotent fantasies of a powerless patient: europe's escape into the disease. the corona crisis makes it clear that europe is sick and therefore more vulnerable to disease. more people die here on average than anywhere else in the world. japan, taiwan, south korea, although close to the epicenter, acted quickly with border closures, masks and testing. this way, fewer people die, and the economic damage is less. eastern europe also has fewer deaths because viktor orbán and others are concerned about their country and not exclusively about the world. western europe, on the other hand, has failed, ignored warnings, closed borders too late, failed to procure or even destroyed protective clothing, and flown in migrants and guest workers untested. what's the matter? ministers are shaking hands, not knowing what to do. the only thing they all know is that we need more europe. why would i? because we're like louis xvi, ignoring warnings and going into more and more debt? the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. why would you do that? and from now on, everyone should collect debts, each according to his needs, and each should contribute according to his ability. and until that happens, the ecb is supposed to print the money. this is all madness. harmonizing is not optimizing, socializing debt is not reducing it, and printing money is not getting richer. how do you go broke? ernest hemingway's answer was, "two ways: first very slowly and then very suddenly". and how do you get well again? not by running into disease and going over the cliff like lemmings, but by planting your own garden, not the common people's.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. we are facing a crisis without precedent in the history of the european union. we're facing a deadly virus that will spare no one. this invisible enemy has caused us to change our habits, to slow down in our well-established pace, and to distance ourselves from our loved ones, even when they need us most. the central theme of today's meeting should be coordinated european action to combat the global pandemic of covid-19. but even this tragic issue seems to have failed to distract some members from attacking national governments with malicious lies and disseminating fake news. the news of the hungarian parliament's suspension is also a lie. while the hungarian parliament is continuously sitting and continues to work at full capacity. not the european parliament, because if you look around you can see that more than 90 percent of your fellow members are unable to attend meetings or express opinions. and the hungarian government is only doing what the constitution says and what the hungarian people expect of it. and that is to protect human lives and to relieve the pressure on the economy. all this is done by the hungarian government within the framework of the legal mandate voted by the national assembly and under the constant supervision of the constitutional court. this is no time for ideological debate. these don't have to be on the agenda. the european union should instead think and work more hard to provide the fastest and most effective assistance to countries in need.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you to everyone who, like esther de lange's sister, is on the front lines of this fight against this pandemic, and a huge thank you to everyone who is working in the workplace now every day, day after day, to make sure that our basic needs are met. because one thing this crisis shows us clearly is that 75 percent of the jobs that are systemic are held by women. these jobs are systemically important, but often systemically misunderstood. and it's also women who are more vulnerable to domestic violence right now in a society that stays at home. we therefore need measures that are pragmatic, that are fast-acting and that are put in place now to protect women, but also children, from domestic violence. many single mothers are at home, working, and teaching their children at the same time. we must also do much more to ensure that these very practical problems of social insecurity are properly tackled and that we take appropriate measures in this area. so this crisis is female. the united nations has stated: we are in danger of seeing covid-19 erase the tentative progress that has been made in gender equality, that it will be wiped out. that means we have to be very, very vigilant here. after the financial crisis , we bailed out banks . the real economy and its workers must be saved. that is why the eurobonds are only a start. we need real solidarity, real cohesion and the big ideas.
mr president, the apology has been made. we have spoken of heroes and victims: it is necessary. but this parliament of all europeans must stand up today and give answers. that's what's essential. because if you don't, there's no future for anyone. we're too small, too vulnerable to get ahead on our own. the european union was born out of the ashes of war. our fathers or grandfathers built these institutions and this parliament. and there are powers out there that could exploit our vulnerability if we disunite, if we give in to petty selfishness, to nationalism, to lying, if we listen to the siren song of the exclusionary identity fanatics. we must demand. this parliament must demand that every mechanism be used to help withstand and overcome the health crisis and the weakness of the economies of families and businesses. we must spare no effort to protect the citizens. first, to save lives, and secondly, to save jobs, freedom and the project for the future, especially for the young. the president of the commission has listed measures. the eurogroup agreement is well-targeted, but it is not enough to deal with the wounds that are emerging in this crisis. that's why we need the massive economic reconstruction plan. a plan of a temporary nature, partly financed by existing instruments. but also those 'reconstruction bonds' guaranteed by the union budget. that could be history. we can't be short. and it is certainly time to act in a way that will allow europe to abandon this mode of being a mere lender to the states. we must invest together in the future. our parents and grandparents built these institutions without which we would be adrift today. many of them are dying. as europeans, we must prepare policies so that it never happens again. to be stronger and wiser, to not need heroes, to not have to mourn victims.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so first of all, i want to emphasize that my thoughts are, of course, with the many victims. i thank the many helping hands in the various countries. i now come to what we are going to vote on today. unfortunately, i will vote against it for simple reasons: i think that things like poland - presidential elections - as in hungary, or things like abortion have no place in it. we need a tool to fight the corona crisis and nothing else. the other is far too important to us, and we can take it up at a later stage and work it out and work it up. i would also remind you that we should not look back, but we should look forward. in a crisis, we must look forward. who do you have to finance? who needs to be strengthened? i am saying that we must strengthen the building blocks of our society: these are the families who are in the shadows, and that is why we should introduce child support. this is the child guarantee which mrs von der leyen has brought into play to directly increase purchasing power, to stimulate the circulation of money, to bring the money directly to the people, that is to say to the families of europe who are in dire need of the money. i appeal to you and thank you very much. a minute is too short.
mr president, when there is political will, there are answers and there is flexibility. this unfortunate situation should inspire us to act more effectively and in solidarity when the pandemic is over. for example, the multiannual financial framework, as irrelevant as it now appears, disputes whether member states will invest 1%, 1.17% or 1.3% of gdp in the common budget. the european recovery from the crisis, the worst since the great recession of the 1930s, requires much larger sums. i support the decision to reallocate the remaining funds from the cohesion funds to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic with a co-financing rate of 100% for the following year. cohesion funds are among the last to be cut in the next budget. i welcome the proposal to use three billion euros to buy medical devices, protective equipment and support medical workers. i call on the commission and the member states to beware of unverified advertisements on social networks and portals. masks and disinfectants of dubious quality are offered at exorbitant prices. it is a good idea to redirect the unspent funds of the fisheries fund to help fishermen. i propose the same for the funds for agriculture and rural development. small farmers and winegrowers are already suffering unbearable damage. i remind you that we are still awaiting adequate measures to mitigate the damage in the tourism sector. the effects of the pandemic will be remedied by obviously huge amounts of public money. these funds require fully transparent spending with serious controls on investment and the receipt of money, at european and national levels. in conclusion, i support the political agreement of the four largest groups in jointly adopting the resolution. it could of course include more elements, but at this point it is more important to have political unity to take measures for the benefit of our citizens.
mr president, we are facing a common enemy, an enemy that causes harm no matter who people are and where they come from. europe is shaped in times of crisis. it is at times like these that we best understand the importance of coordinated and decisive eu action. i welcome the progress that is being made to save lives but also to secure livelihoods. the social crisis this pandemic will leave behind could cause more damage than the virus itself. the sure programme will be crucial to safeguard job retention across the european union, and national governments must move forward on this proposal. but we must go even further. we must do even more to support smes, the backbone of our economies. they must be given access to support quickly now and in the next financial period. and we must do more, of course, to strengthen the capacity of our healthcare systems. the mmf and in particular the esf+, for which i am responsible, will be an important tool in this regard. we must make sure that funding continues to flow, and while we will do everything possible to make sure that the new fund will be operational next year, the commission must prepare contingency measures to ensure that funds will continue to reach those in need. mr president, our citizens are depending on us to rise to the occasion. we must not let them down.
dear commissioner, a union that strives for more still holds true, and it is even more needed than ever before. we all face times of insecurity and anxiety, where there is no screenplay to rely on. this can be scary. this is already painful with the virus causing tremendous harm to our citizens. we’re too close to each other to not feel the pain of our fellow european citizens and our neighbours who are the most hit in europe. as we ask a lot from our citizens – staying home, distancing from each other, facing the crisis on their own – let their efforts be our guidance and our guiding line. as we are all working constantly on ways to soften the consequences of the crisis, the epp group stands ready to discuss, to negotiate and to deliver. count on us in your fight against the virus, in your fight for european answers. we are in this together. we could strive for more and, as it is parliament’s slogan – we will get through this better together.
in writing. covid-19 is far more than a medical crisis: it is a societal crisis with devastating impacts on our infrastructure. take the situation in schools: they are currently closed for - no one knows how long. initial considerations, for example in lower saxony, are to keep schools closed until the summer holidays. i therefore call in a resolution for measures to be taken to ensure the education of our children even if, as in the present situation, regular education is not possible for a long time. where's the crisis management here? where are the crisis meetings? there is no such thing! so while crethi and plethi are once again being showered with taxpayers' money, there is no plan for what the education of our own children might look like in this crisis. and i can no longer hear the repeatedly tried commandment of love of neighbor: the commandment of love of neighbor applies first and foremost to our neighbor and not to the next-next-next. moreover, the commandment to love our neighbor is taken to an absurd level and is turned into its opposite when we help the next-best and the next-best, at the expense of our neighbors!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. if the crisis has shown anything, it is that the eu is not a good crisis manager. it is clear to everyone that the risk areas were limited to local areas, and that the countries and the counties were called upon to do so. in the end, they also managed the crisis well with a lot of solidarity across the borders. but now you want to deal with the full impact of the crisis at eu level with giant aid money. the wishes are growing in the sky. some of my colleagues here want to increase the payment obligations of the member states not only by 30% but by 100% of gni. but that can never be the solution, because that would automatically lead to more debt. and that puts a lot more pressure on our kids' bank accounts. that's the problem. that's what mrs von der leyen said. if you really want to put money into the accounts of our children, then avoid the euro-bonds and do everything you can to ensure that our children can go back to school.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are at the beginning of the greatest economic crisis since the second world war. millions of european women are afraid for their lives. they lose their jobs, fall into poverty, or get sick. corona doesn't affect everyone equally. the weakest are hit harder than the strongest, and southern europe harder than northern europe. but if the eu is divided by this crisis, we will all lose and we will all be weaker. that is why we must act boldly now, and it is good that we are showing this here in parliament and that we are going to pass a strong resolution by a large majority. we are calling for a $2 billion plan. we must not repeat the mistakes of the euro crisis. we need more investment, not more austerity. instead of privatization, we need to invest in our health care system, and instead of spending money on climate polluters, we need climate-friendly infrastructure. and we need a structural strengthening of the eu budget. that is why i am calling on mrs von der leyen not to find a solution whereby more money is available for two years and then everything is cut back. that's not how we're going to fight the crisis. it's up to you now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is important that we send a common european response to this crisis. that is why it is important that we have a strong mff and a reconstruction fund and, moreover, that we ensure that the mff is really strengthened and that the programmes with european added value are really strengthened and not just that everything goes into the reconstruction fund. but we also need to talk about how this money is actually spent. we have huge sums now. but where is this going? i think we're seeing in this crisis how much digitization is helping us, how much it's also making us stronger now, and that's why there needs to be a huge boost in digitization so that we can actually come out of this crisis more competitive. i don't think any new taxes are going to help us. it is a poison for the european economy, especially in this crisis. a digital tax will only cause the americans, that the rabid trump will respond, will also start to destroy world trade again on the spot. that will not get us out of the crisis, ladies and gentlemen. it must be clear: we need a budget that clearly invests in the future. we need a budget which actually gives money only to those in europe who respect the rule of law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. post-corona rebuilding is not about fearfully shoveling money into old structures - not in the corona crisis, not in the climate crisis. it's about designing smart and careful. we need a strong mfr and a strong recovery plan to show us how this can be done. we need the green deal as a foundation. we're just seeing how vulnerable our way of doing business is. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. now is the time to seize this moment and invest in a circular economy, in energy and resource efficiency. we need an industrial strategy that implements decarbonisation and climate-neutral economies, that takes into account the social impact on local people, like the just transition fund. we now have a great opportunity to set the right conditions and incentives for a strong, sustainable, competitive economy in europe. and then we make the best of the crisis.
mr president, i strongly welcome the fact that the european institutions will make unprecedented efforts to turn this crisis into an opportunity and to make sure that harder-hit member states will get the same chances to restart their economy. but i’m afraid we are not giving the same chances to the half of the population that is hit hardest – women – because they work in the sectors that suffer most. and when unemployment is skyrocketing, when we speak of a stimulus package for our economy, most consider investments in hard infrastructure and digitalisation, and rightly so, but that’s exactly where the share of female labour is very, very low. on top of that, women have stepped up their endless hours of unpaid work to compensate for closed schools and childcare services and this is intolerable. for this, president von der leyen, i’m counting on you. women are looking at you. women are organising. make sure that the recovery fund offers a bright future and allows for investments that give a proper income to women as well as to men.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to focus on the discussion at the european council on 23 april on the illegal turkish natural gas drilling in cypriot waters. we are currently experiencing a lot of rhetoric about european solidarity. but now is certainly the time to actually show our resolve by showing real solidarity with an eu member state. the turkish government has made it clear that it is not interested in adhering to accepted international law. in addition to the attempted illegal drilling, there are attempts to smuggle arms into libya in defiance of the un arms embargo, destabilising the entire eastern mediterranean. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. this is a good and important step, but we certainly need stronger expressions of support for syria. let 's get something straight . turkey is attacking the european union, and this is something we cannot tolerate any longer.
in writing. the mff also provides funding for the green deal of around €1 trillion. the european green deal is a concept put forward by the european commission with the aim of reducing net greenhouse gas emissions in the european union to zero by 2050, thus becoming the first continent to become climate neutral. the economies are in a downward spiral due to the "shutdown". where is a trillion dollars supposed to come from to fund a completely unfactual and insane climate-mad ideology? the commission is nevertheless determined to stick to its 'green deal'. the corona crisis has brought the madness to the fore: although in recent weeks there were few cars on the road and emissions were significantly reduced, the nitrous oxide levels have not decreased. in the light of this, the call for a ban on diesel driving - which is also a dispossession of car owners - and a switch to the sinfully expensive and ecologically questionable electrification of road traffic are exposed for what they are: complete nonsense! instead of 'investing' 1 trillion euros in green nonsense, we should think about how to support families who are facing significant economic problems due to the impact of the corona crisis. what we need is not a "green deal" - no, we need a "family deal".
(the president declared the common position approved as amended) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. it is true that the hungarian parliament has approved the state of emergency and can end it at any time. here, on the other hand, many mps are on corona holidays, and trillions of debt-financed aid are decided on by e-mail from home on a flawed legal basis and against the own resources requirement of article 311. the german constitutional court is rebuking the eu's penal system, while the german government wants to punish defamation of the eu and its symbols with three years in prison. the french moralist la rochefoucauld called hypocrisy the tribute paid by vice to virtue. the problem of the rule of law and hypocrisy is not hungary's, but the eu's.
mr president, commissioner jourová, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the pandemic, the hungarian government is marginalizing parliament and is doing so without any visible limit to the suspension of these measures. it undermines freedom of speech and imposes disproportionate penalties not only on those who spread fake news but also on those who criticize orbán, such as the 64-year-old who was found apologizing for criticizing orbán on facebook and calling him a tyrant. ladies and gentlemen, history is full of examples where the supposedly temporary suspension of individual freedoms and the undermining of democratic institutions lead to a course without a return to authoritarianism. the commission must therefore act immediately and call for sanctions against the hungarian government until it complies. you know this is not a conflict between the european union and hungary. it is a matter of the necessary adherence of a government of a member state to the principles and values that hold us together. if we start the sales now, no one can guarantee our future.
mr president, we are facing exceptional times these days, a time when fast action and clear messages were needed, when bold steps had to be taken. and so, we the member states, the european union, did – fast, flexible and with a clear head. entering the next phase, at least in some countries, it is time to evaluate the measures that have been taken. were they appropriate? are they efficient? did they serve the purpose without harming democracy? we fought the virus, not our core values, the founding principles of the union. but what rule of law also means is being accountable on every side, setting clear rules that are the same for everyone under review, developing reliable procedures, incorporating the right to defend those being criticised, if needed, by a representative of government. and here we are at the heart of the current reform where we urgently need a strong and objective rule about a reliable and permanent rule of law mechanism that sets clear rules on every side. if we want to avoid ongoing but fruitless debates, this should be in everyone’s and every state’s interest.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no one could have imagined 70 years ago the progress of this great european project, the foundation of which was laid with this schuman declaration - because there were brave europeans like schuman, monet and spinelli. and we are now at a turning point in europe. what we urgently need is precisely this schuman moment, as it was 70 years ago, to help us get out of this crisis and to set the course for a union that is capable of acting, strong and resilient. and in the spirit of the schuman declaration, we must now make sure that we really do see this crisis as an opportunity. let us imagine that 10 or 15 years ago we had the courage to actually reform europe. we would not have closed borders and a new nationalism, no small states and national isolation and no crisis-prone euro. so it's important that we now see this future conference as a new starting point for this schuman moment. the european union is not built on words, but on solidarity in action.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe cannot be built in one fell swoop, nor can it be built by a simple summarising exercise. it will be created by concrete facts which first create a solidarity of action. this is a very important point, and i hope that the commission will take it up. in the ruins of war, it was common resources, coal and steel, that created the trust between the arch enemies, that laid the foundation for a common space of law. schuman was a lawyer, a lawyer, a minister of justice. it is no wonder that his idea of europe was a community of law - in which power is not above law but law above power, in which there are no winners and losers, but states that unite behind the guiding principle of law, which is binding on all. thus conflict did not become war, strife did not become bloodshed, but the search for a common interest. this community of law is our most valuable resource. this resource must be preserved and developed by all political parties, all different views, for a better europe.
in writing. 70 years ago, the then french foreign minister robert schuman made his declaration, which is celebrated as the beginning of the process of european integration and the birth of today's european union. in effect, the german and french coal and steel industries were removed from national control and placed under a common european authority. this was the end of peace in europe. what is not known today is that robert schuman, jean monnet and other pioneers of european integration also embraced the idea of a euro-africa. access to african resources would enable europe to maintain its position as a strong continent. when the european economic community (eec) was founded in 1957, france still had a vast colonial empire. the system of preferential customs duties and financial subsidies was a prerequisite for the french government to join the eec. france saw the euro-african free trade area as a means of maintaining its hegemony in and over west africa. it is interesting that, following the civilization mandate of the berlin conference (18841885) formally divided africa , both the schuman declaration and the eec defined the association of overseas african territories as an instrument for improving the development of africa. in several subsequent translations of the declaration, the relevant sentences of the declaration were deleted.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. a consortium of european universities has developed a standard that meets the high standards of data protection that our citizens rightly demand. and in return, many are willing to install this app, but it takes trust. and that's why it's equally dangerous for governments to jeopardize that trust by insisting on central storage or politicians attaching special rights or even obligations to the app. so if you want citizens to have confidence in you, you must also have confidence in them and give up any fantasy of control and surveillance. because here we have the chance to prove that free democracies can successfully fight the virus. because with this app, trust, privacy and health go hand in hand.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. edward snowden is not the only one warning that in the shadow of the coronavirus pandemic, permanent structures of control and surveillance are being built. although the pandemic in europe is now under control, governments want to make our return to normal life dependent on us embarking on a social experiment of digital behavior tracking. so far, it's been people asking questions and notifying contacts of infected people. this, according to studies, protects us far better than any app and prevents mass false alarms. who among you really believes that once a contact tracing technology is introduced, it will remain voluntary throughout europe? it's an illusion, you know. governments, please ensure that we have adequate protective equipment and health care, testing facilities, vaccine supplies, and that we are prepared for future pandemics. you owe us that, not surveillance technology and data collection!
in writing. the crisis we are experiencing was, until recently, beyond our imagination. people in europe live in fear for their families, their security and their future. and it is this paralyzing fear that now becomes the threat. for our freedom. because those who live in fear don't ask unpleasant questions. the corona app, the latest lame promise of salvation, is the holy grail for all those who dream the perverse dream of the "glass citizen". it's being sold to us as a special measure for special times. but anyone who says that is either naive or a liar who doesn't blush. because once it is introduced, it will remain and new uses will surely be found for it. let's look at the year 2001. after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the us government took advantage of the situation and sold its citizens the limitations on their rights in the form of the patriot act as a panacea against terrorism. today, almost 20 years later, these measures are still largely in force. any government surveillance we allow is a pandora's box. it won't be any different this time. i would like to conclude with the words of benjamin franklin: "he who gives up his liberty to gain security will in the end lose both".
in writing. i advocate the use of corona apps to help get out of the current restrictions. while social distancing measures can flatten the infection curve, we need the widespread use of tracing apps to help us track covid-19 infection chains through tracing data. the important thing is that these apps work across european borders and are compatible with each other. and it's especially important that privacy is guaranteed at all times when using tracking apps.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on vaccines and medicines in relation to covid-19 (2020/2643 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words in this debate and that no blue cards will be accepted.
madam president, today the european parliament is calling on the member states and the institutions of the european union to coordinate and work together to find an effective vaccine and treatment to combat the coronavirus. and we want to bring together efforts not just between states and european institutions, we want to bring together efforts between the private sector and the public sector. parliament also took as an example the european commission's initiative of the international donors' conference over €7.4 billion collectively raised. but today parliament does more than that. today parliament is also sending a strong message about the need for a future vaccine with universal, free, fair, equal and rapid access to all corners of europe. this may also be possible through the joint procurement mechanism. and thirdly, the european parliament today also wants the european union to take the lead in the future in the global effort to ensure universal and free access to a future vaccine. it's also a time to make warnings about this logic - which we see in some cases - of geopolitical competition to find the vaccine or how the vaccine can also be a source of inequalities. we want to cooperate in a world where some want to compete. because in the face of the coronavirus, there is no possible competition for something that affects the whole of humanity and that has put at risk the way of life in every corner of our planet.
madam president, a lot of crucial things have already been said, including our regained sovereignty in the field of medicines in europe, our lack of preparation and vision, so i come straight to the subject of our debate: treatments and vaccines. for starters, discovery, we haven't really talked about it much yet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the requirements of the treaty and to ensure that the european union is able to meet the requirements of the treaty. i would like to know the reasons for this disapproval and i am using a euphemism. some researchers i spoke to told me about the european criteria for testing being too strict, including too high prices. i find it rather sad to see that some of our member states are turning instead to solidarity, the parallel study launched by the who. as for vaccines, 157 projects are underway, according to the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine, 11 of which are already in clinical trials. so the question is, and it's a crucial one, what do you do if it's discovered in the united states, in china or elsewhere? i have listened to your explanations, commissioner, i read the press too, there are denials, but there are great manoeuvres between the big labs and the big powers, can you reassure the europeans about access and availability?
i have to say, madam president, access to medicine is saving lives. do we want to ensure that only those who can afford it have access to the coronavirus vaccine and medicine - here in europe and around the world? do we want african countries to be unable to manufacture their own ventilators because they're breaking patent law? no, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have that! the eu must ensure that all people everywhere have access to vital technology, medicine and a future vaccine. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. eu member states must guarantee public access to medicines and vaccines for all through compulsory licensing. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a reply. the eu must use the flexibilities in trade law to allow medicines produced under compulsory licences to be imported and traded worldwide. we need a clear and unequivocal statement from the commission, mr schinas. ladies and gentlemen, we are in this together. let us send a strong signal from the plenary today that we are looking at the whole of society and the whole of the world and not just those who can afford it!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to stress first of all that, even if the commission says that we must become crisis-resistant, there will never be crisis-resistance. it's not the first pandemic we've seen, and it won't be the last pandemic we'll see. but i want to emphasize that i am very pleased and very positive that we now have 123 vaccine projects around the world that are already in the testing phase, where you would otherwise be in 10 or 11 years. so that means that these procedures have been cut down tremendously, and that gives us hope that by next year, we will probably have the first vaccine in the world to help people directly. it is our task here in the european parliament to set the framework conditions for this: who will get the vaccine, when, at what time and at what price? it is self-evident that every person - this is part of the public service - that every person in europe - and the previous speaker is absolutely right - must have access to it, of course, worldwide. we need to create a framework: where do we start, where do we stop, and how fast can we produce? in addition, we must bring manufacturing facilities to europe, particularly in the pharmaceutical sector. health policy is not european policy, and it is time we made it european policy. the european parliament has now signed a manifesto, as it were, by 21 members of parliament who now want to work together across party lines in the interests of the citizens and the people of europe to advance health policy throughout europe. i am very happy and very proud of that and i say to the members: thank you very much for joining us, and we will keep this alive. i ask the commission to create an institution here in europe which is also worthy of it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is a leader in research into vaccines and therapeutics. firstly, these efforts must continue in the future. secondly, we need to speed up the approval of medicines. we don't want to compromise on patient safety, but we need to make sure that medicines get to patients faster. third, even with common drugs, the fact is that we only have two, maybe three production lines worldwide. it is unrealistic to bring all production back to europe, but we need at least to diversify production. the fact that our fundamental freedoms are being restricted - and i should like to speak briefly about my colleague from the epp, mr liese - shows that the good that the european union brings cannot be taken for granted. we have to work for it every day. the only thing that matters to me is that those who restrict fundamental freedoms have to argue, and the burden of proof is not on those who want to live by fundamental freedoms. each eu member state is too small to play an economically important role in the world. and each eu member state is too small to make a real contribution to solving the corona problem.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner schinas has spoken about how efficiently and naturally in toto wonderfully the eu has responded to the corona crisis. like all of his statements, this claim is somewhere between self-deception, self-aggrandizement and fake news. a real parliament would not let him get away with it. it would talk about the complete lack of medical preparedness within the eu for the corona crisis, it would talk about the complete lack of coordination among eu countries in fighting the corona pandemic, and above all, a real parliament would talk about the total failure of people like mr schinas and mrs von der leyen and the entire commission. and a real president of parliament would put these issues on the agenda too, and not talk about poland or hungary or - here right now - vaccines. but we do not have a proper parliament, and unfortunately we do not have a proper president of parliament either.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. we see here on the big stage the three fragments that make up this eu: breach of contract, breach of law and breach of trust! recovery bonds are just a relabelling of eurobonds under the guise of the covid-19 crisis, with some limitation of liability; but she'll strike right away. germany must vote 27 percent of the 500 billion reconstruction fund, proud 135 billion. unlike eurobonds, where the member states are only called upon to pay the default of guarantees, recovery bonds require the member state to pay the interest and repay its share directly. the german public debt will therefore increase directly in the medium term. the germans are already badly beaten. no country has taken in more refugees and fed them with social benefits, no country pays more child benefit to eu countries, sometimes even regardless of whether the children actually exist there. and almost no country has lower assets; italians and frenchmen have significantly more than the average german. in germany, raising children alone is a ticket to poverty. we therefore say no to all measures which are going to the pockets of the german taxpayer.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank all those in europe who have shown their solidarity. i would like to inform you and my colleagues that i have been the victim of police violence by the belgian police. i consider this to be an act of discrimination with a racist tendency. yesterday, i was leaving the north station and i saw nine policemen harassing two young black men. i had my phone in my hand, and i took a picture of the scene with my phone, which is legal. the police came to me, they snatched my phone from my hands. four of the nine armed police officers pushed me violently against the wall, violently took my handbag, pushed me against the wall with my legs apart, and one of them wanted to feel me and search me. they treated me in a humiliating way. when i told the policeman that i was a member of the european parliament, he did not believe me, even though he had my two passports in his hand, my european parliament pass and my german passport. he then asked me for my belgian residence card. i gave it to him. i took my badge out of my bag and i had the badge around me. i filed a complaint today because we can't let this police violence go unpunished. this experience, at a time when the whole world has seen the dire consequences of police brutality, is traumatic for me, but here i am, despite spending all night here in parliament writing, and not having had the courage to leave before 6am. i was here yesterday, we can check it with our badges. we must therefore take concrete action for the many people who are not here and who have not been able to escape police violence.
madam president, as a black woman in europe, i have not only become aware of the racist reality at home, i have lived the racist reality of europe for the last 40 years. what is happening in the world today is the result of colonial structures of oppression that have been in place for hundreds of years. it is not about individuals, it is about systemic and institutionalized racism that targets blacks and all ethnic minorities. i don't want to hear about police training, i want there to be consequences for police violence. i want justice for all those who lost their lives, those who lost loved ones and all those who were traumatized by the police. it is not just the black people of europe, but all black people and their descendants, people of colour, including those who continue to drown in the mediterranean because of racist immigration policies. i want to be clear: all black lives matter, whether they are european citizens or not, black trans lives matter, black women lives matter, our lives matter. as a teacher, i have seen how the souls of children have been destroyed by latent racism or open racism, by this word, the word "hate", which enters the soul of the child and ultimately ends in failures. it is time to renew dialogue so that no one is left behind and, as martin luther king said, we must learn to live together as brothers or we will all die together as fools.
i have to say, madam president, structural racism in europe, that seems a little strange to me. we see illegal immigrants in european cities demonstrating for a permanent right to stay. it doesn't necessarily feel like structural racism. we see in dijon street battles between maghrebis and chechens, without the police intervening. this does not seem like systematic state repression either. in many german, belgian, dutch and french cities, the police no longer dare to enter certain immigrant neighbourhoods. again, this doesn't seem like structural racism. and despite all the claims that racism exists here, hundreds of thousands of africans still want to go to europe. but there is a very simple remedy, if you really believe that europe is ruled by structural racism: stop the global compact on migration for at least ten years, until you have ensured that this alleged structural racism is removed from the european institutions.
in writing. of course, all forms of racism are to be condemned. and of course, the death of george floyd is to be regretted. every life is worth protecting. but what is happening in the united states and has spread to europe misses the real problem. in the united states, more than 40 percent of all blacks are middle and upper class. you are not a victim of society. the days of the united states being a racist country are over, thankfully. blacks have the same opportunity as whites to rise to the top of society. condoleezza rice, colin powell and of course barack obama are just a few examples. that is why this resolution sends the wrong signal. the claim that racism is everywhere is not only false but also corrosive. it perpetuates an imagined disability and relieves people of their duty to build their own lives and live in their own way. the left, supported by the other socialist parties, is exploiting and exploiting floyd's death to further its own political ends. it defines black people as victims who serve as a willing electorate to them. at the same time, it is trying to prevent any debate on the harmful effects of mass immigration by increasingly undemocratic laws. this development is detrimental to germany and the eu.
in writing. george floyd's death was a preventable injustice. he deserved a fair trial, as is the custom in a state governed by the rule of law. but his death does not justify violence or the destruction of statues. it is not acceptable to rewrite history or to attribute to western society a collective guilt for historical events such as the colonial period. the same is true of the fact that a vocal minority wants to impose its ideology on a silent and indifferent majority. every decent democrat has to fight back! the claim that western society is a hotbed of structural racism is sheer nonsense. this is used by the left-wing extremists as a pretext to destroy our culture and to stifle our resistance to their anti-democratic aspirations. only to establish their utopia of a multicultural state without borders. anyone who does not support them is denounced as a racist. we must preserve our culture and the roots of our identity. antifa is a terrorist organisation whose aim is to destroy democracy, the rule of law and its values, such as freedom of expression. it must therefore be prohibited to protect society. and that's what the afd and the id stand for, unlike all the other groups.
madam president, they ask us why we are doing this; they ask us why we stand united and invest so much time in negotiating something that the british government has rejected and ignored again and again. the answer is: we are doing it for our common european future. maybe not next year, maybe the year after that, maybe later, but this future will come. we are doing it for our common values and interests – values that don’t depend on the signature as a member of the eu: liberal democracy, climate policy, women’s and minority rights, human rights. these are values that we share with each other, regardless of membership of the eu. we are doing it for europeans on both sides of the channel, for those who share families, jobs, love stories, biographies. we are doing this for their rights. we are doing this for you, our british friends: british citizens who believe in the wisdom of the eu much more than you believe in the wisdom of your brexiteer government. because if they go low, we aim high, and we aim high with this resolution. we won’t ever see britain as a third country and we will never see british citizens as citizens of a third country. to paraphrase a famous brit: a brexit with a deal is the worst form of future for great britain, except for all other forms of brexit. this resolution is our last attempt to prevent the worst. the ball is in your court, mr johnson.
mr president, a good trade agreement is in the interest of both parties. but what do we see? the united kingdom has backed down. they will renegotiate the aspects already agreed. i think that really undermines the political declaration which was also signed by mr johnson. so the question is: does the british government want to make a deal? british business wants it. the confederation of british industry, the umbrella body for british industry, knows full well that our single market is essential. they realise that in the event of a no deal, there will be many losers on both sides of the channel. and the already shrinking british economy cannot possibly have that. i want an agreement with fair fisheries agreements, access for our fishermen to the whole of the north sea, good agreements on the joint management of fish stocks. and if there are no fisheries agreements, there will be no trade agreement!
madam president, vice-president šefčovič, the low expectations for the european council are undermining the climate of optimism and confidence that our citizens and our economies need. in my country, greece, after losing 25% of gross domestic product during the economic crisis, we are now facing a deep recession if the european union does not act immediately. the european council must therefore seize this opportunity to send a clear message of confidence to the markets, to show that the european union is ready to guarantee the future of its generation. the recovery fund, in conjunction with the community budget, can support high quality primary production, renewable electricity coupled with jobs in the circular economy, the digitisation of the public sector and its linkage with small and medium-sized enterprises that are now struggling to reopen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must create jobs for our generation and for the next generation.
rapporteur. – madam president, i want to thank my colleagues for their contribution to this debate and for their continued support. allow me also to say a special thanks to my colleague, co—rapporteur christophe hansen, and all the shadow rapporteurs who worked on this file. and of course, not to be forgotten, my gratitude also goes to michel barnier and his team for their full engagement with this house. we wish you patience and a good dose of humour in the coming weeks ahead. as you have all clearly underlined, what we need with this deal are not short-term answers but a long-term vision, given the unprecedented challenges we are confronted with. if the uk government does not immediately and radically change its approach to these negotiations, there is no way to reach any sort of comprehensive partnership before the end of the transition period. to be honest, under the current circumstances, i believe we must also prepare ourselves for a no—deal scenario. last week’s data from the uk office for national statistics and the organisation for economic co—operation and development show clearly the economic impact of the coronavirus crisis. it is time to turn the narrative to make the pandemic the reason for success and not the excuse for failure. that would be a disaster for citizens on both sides of the channel. we need a deal, and we can have a deal that is good for all of us. a no-deal is neither rational nor responsible. the next weeks are the moment of truth in many regards. the time has come for responsibility and courage. citizens and the business community need certainty. they need predictability. the eu is ready to play its role and to fulfil their needs and their legitimate aspirations.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you, and i say to colleagues: thank you for all the contributions in this very long debate today. i wish i could respond to each and every one of your remarks, but given the time restrictions, i want to come back to the essentials, namely the many remarks i heard on the ‘level playing field’. my father, who doesn’t speak english, always asks me: ‘when i hear you speaking about brexit on the radio, why do you always insist on this level playing field? what does that even mean?’ so i told him, because we are both big cycling fans: ‘imagine the tour de france, all cyclists competing with a common race bike, except for chris froome with his sky team riding with e-bikes. do you believe this would allow for a fair competition?’ the answer was of course, ‘no, this is not what we want’. we want fair competition and fair play is what every good sportsman should aim for in a competition. this parliament wants the closest possible cooperation with the united kingdom. this is in everyone’s best interest. we will remain constructive and will be ready to discuss the fair and balanced compromises that will hopefully emerge in the coming weeks here in brussels and in london. of course, it takes two to tango, as the commission president earlier said. and, you have to be aware, this parliament will be ready for this last dance.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, dear esteemed colleague who negotiates for the eu, michel barnier, first a couple of remarks on the issue which was raised by ms garcía pérez, ms keller and mr cioloş, and this is of course the videoconference of the european council this friday and our proposal on mff and next generation eu. first and foremost, i would like to thank you for your support because it’s very important for our discussions with the european member states, and also with the public, and i really would like to reassure you that we are not losing any minute from the time between now and what i hope will be a very important historic, unprecedented and ambitious deal on both the mff and next generation eu in july. we are not losing any minute because we are talking to the governments at different levels, we are engaging with the citizens, and i personally approached all representatives of the national parliaments on tuesday in the format of cosac when i was explaining to them the construction architecture of the proposal and the importance of national parliaments and the european parliament’s approval ratification in the end. of course, for us solidarity is a must, and i believe that this european council videoconference will allow us to narrow the differences which are still there on the table, and to prepare the ground well, what i believe will be a decisive move forward, an agreement in july. on the second topic which was raised by the rest of the honourable members, i would just like to inform you about how we are going to implement the withdrawal agreement. as you know, i am representing the european union in this joint committee with michael gove, who is representing the british government. and here we are talking about the agreement which was approved, signed and ratified by this parliament and by the uk parliament, and once there was a clear statement by michael gove that there will not be any extension of the transitional period, i did the same. and what i heard from our rapporteurs, ms piri and mr hansen, but also from mr mcallister was that we need to accelerate our work and to make sure that the withdrawal agreement is properly implemented. i’m very glad to report that the discussion of the joint committee was in a very positive atmosphere and that we could state that there is good progress in the area of the financial provisions, on the protocol on gibraltar, on the protocol on the sovereign base areas of the uk in cyprus and also on citizens’ rights where i know how important this issue is for the european parliament and for our citizens and i believe we will be able to resolve our differences definitely before the end of the year. what is the most challenging issue is of course the application of the protocol on ireland and northern ireland, and here i was very clear and i made it very clear also to the uk delegations that what we need is some more operation, because we understand the aspiration, which has already presented to us. but for us, it’s very important to have very concrete responses on how the uk is going to implement the vat regime, excise and customs obligations, which are clearly stated in the withdrawal agreement. i’m glad that the response i got from michael gove was that we will work very hard over the summer, that we will have another specialised committee session on the irish protocol in july, and we will come back overall what i believe will be progress in early september. so there is a lot of work, but i believe that when it comes to the withdrawal agreement, both sides are realising that the proper implementation is the key to trust-building, to confidence-building which we need for the good future relationship between european union and the united kingdom. and how will this future relationship look? if you allow, madam president, i will pass the floor to michel barnier because he’s negotiating day and night with our uk colleagues and he will be able to give you the best picture.
head of the task force on relations with the united kingdom. madam president, good evening to each and every one of you and thank you to maroš for the good cooperation between us. i would like to say a few words in conclusion alongside him on the record of this very complex, extraordinary brexit negotiation. first of all, i would like to thank your parliament, madam president, the 17 committees and their rapporteurs. as david mcallister said, this is the first time, and i think it is the time, and so i would like to thank very warmly kati piri and christophe hansen for this rather complicated work of synthesis that they have done and congratulate them on it. we need the vigilance and determination of the european parliament in this period. this is the determination that your president, david sassoli, expressed on monday at the high-level conference with commission president ursula von der leyen, charles michel, the president of the european council, yourself and boris johnson. and then, i think it was nathalie loiseau who said, you will have the last word, once again, when we have found, i hope, an agreement with the united kingdom. as maroš sĕfčovič has just said, we have taken note of the negative position of the british government to extend, as we have had, as we always have the possibility, until 30 june, this transitional period which is in fact the negotiation period. and so that puts us in the middle of the aisle: four months of negotiations behind us, only four months of negotiations ahead of us, kati piri said 204 days earlier. so it's difficult. it is still possible, time is very short and i share the sense of urgency expressed by boris johnson and that is why we have decided, with my counterpart, david frost and his negotiating team, which is, like ours, very professional, to intensify these negotiations in july, august and september, to have more concentrated, more targeted discussions, with the objective and obligation for us, but you know that this is my rule, to have the same transparency with your parliament, your coordination group, your committees and also with the 27 member states on whose behalf we are negotiating. what are the next steps? one thing is clear, as the three presidents of the three institutions recalled when they met boris johnson on monday, what is important to us, even before the process, is progress on the substance. it is up to the uk to choose what it wants and whether it wants a deal. you have said very well, minister brnjac, just now at the beginning of this session, that it is the choice of the united kingdom whether or not it wants an agreement because the conditions for an agreement are already known. we agreed them with boris johnson and every comma, every word was bitterly negotiated in the political declaration to commit ourselves to an ambitious and lasting partnership to which your parliament is also committed. not only an unprecedented trade partnership, zero tariffs, zero quotas on all goods - a first in the union's trade history - but also an agreement on fisheries, mr bellamy said, and an agreement on a level playing field, which will cover state aid, taxation issues, but also social rights and environmental rights. as christophe hansen said just now, an agreement on economic and social fair play, and this agreement will also have to cover energy, transport, security and defence issues, and on the basis of this unprecedented offer, we also want the conditions for access to our market to be fair. we have adopted this political declaration and these principles in our mandate and in our draft agreement published on 18 march, and this is not open to negotiation. after four years of negotiations, we can see, ladies and gentlemen, what the british government's strategy is. first, he refused to discuss any important issues, defence, security, development. i interpreted this as the idea of concentrating the whole negotiation on economic issues only and thus on defending its economic interests. and then, in this strategy, the uk is trying to negotiate, in some areas, a status very close to membership of the single market, of quasi-membership of the single market of the customs union and schengen without having any of the constraints or disciplines. this is what we call cherry picking, on rules of origin, on mutual recognition, on financial services, on professional qualifications, on data flows or on electricity exchanges. we will not accept cherry picking. the second part of the uk strategy is to reject all clear and strong commitments to a level playing field so that it can keep the freedom to deviate from the current eu rules and to make regulatory competition, some even say that this is the reason for brexit and we see this strategy on the data. i know the very firm position of parliament on this subject, on financial services, on state aid, where the united kingdom has so far given no indication of the future national framework for state aid, i see it also on food standards and, in this context, the united kingdom even wished to reopen the question of geographical indications, which are clearly protected in the withdrawal agreement mentioned by maroš sĕfčovič. all this is not compatible with the basis of a lasting, ambitious agreement with a great country which will remain our friend, ally and partner in any event. and yet i remain convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that an agreement is possible in the long term, as danuta hübner has said. we have wanted this from the beginning and we want to give this negotiation every chance, as this intensified process shows. but, ladies and gentlemen, as you have indicated in your resolution, we will not agree at any price, as mr lange has just said. we will never sacrifice - to use the words of our president ursula von der leyen - the long-term economic and political interests of consumers and businesses in the union for the benefit of the united kingdom. at the same time, we want to see tangible progress on the implementation of the withdrawal agreement referred to by maroš sĕfčovič, both the guarantee of citizens' rights and, madam president, the issue so important for peace in ireland, namely the proper application of the protocol. finally, while our priority remains and will remain to reach an agreement, we also have the responsibility, as mr arimont and mr schiderwan said earlier, to prepare collectively for all possible scenarios at the end of the year, in case of agreement or in case of disagreement. in any case, we must prepare ourselves and we will prepare ourselves. i wanted to thank you for your confidence in the european commission's negotiating team, which is, remember, your negotiating team. in the next few weeks, which will be crucial, we will have to demonstrate certain qualities. mrs. piri asked me to be humorous; i recognise that i have some room for improvement, but it is important at my age to keep some room for improvement. the calm to which mr. danielsson invited me, our patience; the calm and patience on my part are inexhaustible. our firmness, which is clear and sharp on the basis of the principles to defend our consumers and our companies. and finally, our unity, which parliament will give further proof of today, and for which i thank you.
thank you very much, and i hope your reserves do not run out, mr barnier, so good luck with the negotiations.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i’ll first say a few words regarding negotiations on a new partnership with the uk, to which many of you devoted your comments. with the adoption of your recommendation, our negotiator should be in a better position to engage in the very intense phase of negotiating that is coming, as it is clear for both our institutions that progress in the partnership negotiations had to go hand in hand with progress in the implementation of the withdrawal agreement. this means that we will have to remain vigilant as regards, first and foremost, the preservation of citizens’ rights, be it during the transition period or under whatever future relationship with the united kingdom. but our vigilance will have to be no less thorough when considering the intended economic partnership, where strong, safeguarded and robust governance will be called for to protect the integrity of the eu single market and the competitive position of eu firms. we will therefore count on your cooperation in this respect as well. in negotiation with the uk on our future relationship and partnership, our common efforts and commonality of purpose will provide the support required by our negotiator and help ensure an outcome to the benefit of the union and its citizens. coming back to the mff and recovery, the president of the european council wants to pave the way for a deal by providing the leaders with an opportunity to discuss the mff and the recovery package. therefore, the friday meeting will be an orientation debate, during which the leaders will have the opportunity to explain how they see the commission’s new proposals and whether the overall package meets their expectations. this debate will inform the work of the president of the european council and help him bring together the necessary elements to prepare the final stretch of negotiations and build a successful compromise. i take from this debate that we will share a sense of urgency and of ambition. we are actually aware that there is still a lot of work to be done to reconcile different interests and points of view in order to build a compromise. ultimately, our goal is to agree as soon as possible on what is an unprecedented financial package to face an unprecedented crisis. in the remaining days of our presidency, we will continue to be fully committed to doing our utmost to facilitate all the steps leading to such an agreement, and to do so in a way that is mindful of parliament’s views. for it has been clear since the onset of the pandemic that we can only overcome this crisis if we act jointly in solidarity.
the joint debate is closed. we have already voted on the amendments of the report by ms piri and mr hansen. the final vote takes place tomorrow morning. before i suspend the sitting, i would like to thank the interpreters very sincerely, because the debates were longer than we had anticipated. so my sincere thanks to our interpreters. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the eu's demands in the trade negotiations with the uk are harsh and unreasonable. the refusal to grant london a trade agreement modelled on the eu-canada agreement and the eu's demand that the ecj should have the final say on the interpretation of an eu-uk trade agreement are inappropriate. in particular, this demand that the uk, as a sovereign state once again, submit not to an independent arbitration tribunal but to the highest court of its contracting partner, the eu, is contrary both to the practice of international law and to the practice of the eu itself. in almost all other eu trade agreements, the settlement of disputes is carried out by independent arbitration tribunals. in addition, the court's claim to power and impartiality is controversial even within the eu. the federal constitutional court held that while the ecj may monitor compliance with the eu treaties, the national constitutional courts have the final say on whether the eu is still moving within the limits set by the treaties. so far, london has refused to respond to the eu's exaggerated demands. if trade negotiations fail, not only british but also european exporters, consumers and workers will be harmed. after the brexit vote and the uk's exit, it is time for the eu to finally end its punitive expedition against the former eu member.
in writing. the next multiannual financial framework of the european union and the recovery fund must offer a solution acceptable to all member states; the proposal must leave no one behind. the budget must therefore be fair and balanced, and the money must be distributed fairly. the budget should be flexible in the use of funds, as there is no one-size-fits-all crisis management solution. the money is different in different countries, the priorities are different in the south of europe, different in the north and different again in central europe. the recovery of the cee member states should be based on a strengthened cohesion policy which has already proven itself; it has created added value in europe and its contractual objectives are as relevant today as they were before the crisis: to close the development gap and thereby strengthen the union's competitiveness. hungary has implemented significant reforms in recent years and is successfully catching up thanks to its efforts. however, the proposed allocation criteria for the resources of the recovery facility are based on pre-pandemic statistics and therefore do not reflect the real economic impact of the crisis. and they punish countries with good growth and low unemployment. the current proposal has a moral problem: rich countries would get more money than poorer ones. this cannot continue to be the case; member states with a disciplined economic policy and successful defence cannot be penalized by depriving resources. poorer countries must not be put at a disadvantage compared to richer member states.
in writing. – at this week’s european council, participants should be laying the foundations for a mutually—acceptable agreement on the upcoming multiannual financial framework and the recovery package as presented by the commission on 27 may. it is essential that the recovery package achieve its target to help relaunch the european economy. meanwhile, the long—term goals of the union, especially those focused on cohesion between its territories, must be upheld. we face an unprecedented crisis in the amplitude and depth of the peril it entails for the european economic system. that should be recognised in deeds, not just in words. to deal with the crisis satisfactorily, the criteria of the recent past hardly apply. unless some way is found for effective european action that really addresses, head on, the dangers of the ongoing recession where they are being experienced, the negative social and economic impacts will multiply. with all its flaws, the plans presented by the von der leyen commission go a good way towards meeting this vital challenge. its thrust has to be endorsed. arguments about, among others, whether loans or grants should be deployed; how recovery projects should be selected and conditioned, etc. should be subordinated to this overall priority.
in writing. i hope that the negotiators will be able to intensify the negotiations now so that a 'no deal brexit' can be avoided in the end. comparable environmental and social standards are as urgently needed to ensure fair competition as agreements on fisheries policy or police and judicial cooperation.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the conference on the future of europe (2020/2657 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words and no blue cards will be accepted in this debate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i have 90 seconds of speaking time today. that’s the same amount that the european council took to discuss the outcome of the last major exercise of citizen consultation. we talked to hundreds of thousands of europeans in over 1 600 citizens’ dialogues. when i read now the draft council mandate, i have to say that i am shocked the outcome of the two-year debate on the conference should simply be another discussion of the council behind closed doors. how do you explain to citizens that we are having a debate on the future of europe, but that you don't really want them to change anything, that we’re excluding the possibility of treaty change, of real change, before the debate has even started? i think that’s absurd. so we are in a situation where, for the second time in a decade, we are slipping into the worst economic crisis. millions of europeans are losing their jobs, particularly young people. many of them had just gotten out of the last crisis. the question now is: can we or do we want to afford losing another decade, or are we finally going to address the structural shortcomings of this union, and make sure that we get out of this crisis faster than the last one. i hear in the council that the conference has become a bit of a running joke, a running gag. i think this house has made it very clear that citizen participation is not a joke, that meaningful reform of the union is not a joke, and that coming out of this crisis stronger and more united is not a joke. so the council really needs to stop joking around now. let’s start working on the future of europe, i think it is about time.
i have to say, madam president, in strasbourg i spoke of sigmund freud and the neurotic escape into illness: illness frees from the toil of recovery and promises relief and a holiday from reality. prophetic words! the corona crisis is the latest of countless eu and euro crises: politicians are wrestling with their hands, as always, not knowing what to do. the only thing everyone knows is that we need more eu now! the stage was set for the conference on the future of europe: the eu must become effective, democratic and close to its citizens. the aim is not to hold citizens' votes, but to organise structured citizens' dialogues, orchestrated by the eu and pro-eu ngos. and in effect, this is called: patronage, redistribution and over-indebtedness. the result is not recovery but descent. because the problem with the eu is that it will eventually run out of german money. germany and the eu belong on the couch of joy.
i have to say, madam president, we have a parliament here wondering why not a single institution of the european union is taking the first step towards the future of europe. because we are not deciding on treaty changes at the moment, it is not a complex mandate, it is an agreement on a mandate to enter into negotiations, to shape this conference at all. that is why this resolution is designed to make a clear appeal and say: how can this be? for six months - january, february, march, april, may, june - it has been impossible to agree on a simple mandate. instead, you stay in the trenches, you've dug yourself in, the blockages persist, and you can't make the first move. if we fail to take this first step, and if the council fails to do so, then we are all caught up in this and we will not be able to stabilise europe. so we say again, we've heard it, it's for us to say, how come you can't make that first step? the appeal also to the german presidency of the council: if you can get this done, get this moving, we must start now!
i would like to thank you very much, madam president, for the work of the past six months, which have certainly been both exciting and exhausting for you, and for the good cooperation. in accordance with rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, two motions for resolutions have been tabled. the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, 17 june 2020, and the final vote will take place on thursday, 18 june 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have a short announcement to make: i would like to inform you that the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 8 p.m. instead of 8:15 p.m.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the protection of strategic european sectors against foreign takeover in the post-covid era (2020/2663 ((rsp)). there are no spontaneous word messages or blue cards for this debate either.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we've been talking about corona for months now. and this pandemic is very clear about what is wrong with the economic and political system. for decades, the eu's dogma was: private before state. on the one hand, we had 63 calls on member states to make cuts and privatisations in healthcare between 2011 and 2018 alone. on the other hand, there is the commitment to continuously increase military spending under pesco. mr borrell, millions of europeans are facing major social challenges, losing their jobs or part of their income. it is now that you want to spend more than eur 25 billion in the eu budget for the first time on research and procurement of military equipment, despite the fact that article 41 (2) expressly prohibits this. why don't you want to understand that you can't eat bombs and tanks and that you can't keep people healthy? they say we need hard skills. the time for naive europe is over. i say, it would be naive to think that this arms race and this updated geopolitical alignment will bring more peace and security.
mr president, mr borrell, dear colleagues, we have focused our efforts on the covid-19 pandemic as a health crisis in recent months. but in its shadow a human rights crisis is unfolding and this human rights crisis is making the health emergency even worse. if regimes attack and kidnap journalists who report on the pandemic, it doesn’t stop the virus, it just spreads disinformation and mistrust. if regimes use corona funds to buy weapons for their police to enforce lockdowns, it doesn’t stop the virus. it only spreads fear and death. of course, restrictions to individual freedoms are necessary to fight the pandemic, but each and every restriction needs to be proportionate. it needs to be clearly linked to the health emergency and above all, people have to be allowed to debate them and often they are not. so, to fight the covid-19 crisis globally, we need to tackle both the health emergency and the human rights crisis. we need to monitor the spread of the disease and the human rights violations. we need to investigate deaths and human rights violations. we need to protect our doctors and our human rights defenders. mr borrell, it’s not just about millions. team europe needs to become team human rights. and while i applaud your efforts in this regard, and you have spoken up strongly, i really think that we need to step up our actions on this one as well, looking at the world of today.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. the voting is open from 10.30 a.m. to 11.45 a.m. the same voting procedure as yesterday will be used. all votes shall be cast by name. members can consult their votes and the results of the vote in the document published on the plenary session website. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, only explanations of vote of up to 400 words will be accepted. the results will be announced at 2:15 p.m. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on combating disinformation about covid-19 and its impact on the right to freedom of expression (2020/2635 ((rsp)). i would like to point out that this debate does not accept spontaneous messages or blue cards.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, it should be clear to us there will never be a silver bullet to solve all problems of disinformation. but hey, we are in politics, and we all know there is rarely a one-size-fits-all approach. but we should be clear about our starting point, and the starting point is to defend our democracy, not to damage it. that’s why our strategy should be threefold and should be holistic. first, fight geopolitical propaganda attacks from outside. second, educate and inform press and internet consumers. and third, protect personal opinion and free speech. the past weeks have demonstrated the pitfalls, but also the chances that we saw. there was a strong sense of direction from the european institutions, and i’m grateful to mr burrell for framing it right. it’s not about just fake news, it’s about a debate and a battle of narratives. on the other hand, we saw how we can end up in an anti-democratic trap. this is why criminalisation of alleged misinformation about covid, like in hungary, attempted prevention of true press information in poland, prosecution of pharmaceutical representatives in bulgaria – just because they wanted to warn about a lack of drugs. this is all unacceptable. we should not lose sight of our strategic principle. by confronting disinformation, we must defend democracy, not destroy it. and one more point, because many people represent it here. anonymity is an important good in the internet. anonymity protects women, minorities, opposition voices in the internet, and that’s why we should never abolish this there. one more point on education and then i’m done. we should invest more in education, in justice and value systems and not cut this by 20% as is planned now in the mff, and we should invest more as part of the recovery in civil society and education and not disregard it as is planned now. this is the way to go. this is the way to protect democracy.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the summaries of the report by petras auštrevičius on the recommendation of the european parliament to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eastern partnership ahead of the june 2020 summit (2019/2209(ini)) (a90112/2020) and the report by tonino picula on the recommendation of the european parliament to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the western balkans following the 2020 summit (2019/1022(ini)) (a91/0092020). i would like to point out again that there are no spontaneous phrases or blue cards in this debate. we have a correspondingly shortened debate.
that concludes this item. the vote on the report of mr auštrevičius will take place on friday, 19 june 2020. as regards mr picula's report, the vote on the amendments will take place today, 18 june 2020, and the final vote will be on friday, 19 june 2020. (the sitting was suspended at 11.43 a.m.) written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 35 years of schengen an incredible success story! and it is precisely the actions of the member states in the face of corona - with many border closures - that have shown, as if under a burning glass: schengen is not taken for granted, but it is urgently needed. open borders in europe are essential for the exchange of goods, services and medical aid, but there is much more to it. the daily crossing of a border, living and working or studying in two countries, cross-border leisure activities, daily interacting across borders: this is the building block for understanding, despite or precisely because of many differences. i therefore urge the commission and the council - and of course the member states - to strengthen and extend the schengen area and let us live europe together every day!
mr president, madam commissioner, dear ylva johansson, at the beginning of the covid crisis in mid-march, europe was fragmented. most member states have reintroduced border controls. so thousands of citizens, border workers, families have been stranded, separated. i have seen it as a resident of a border town: strasbourg. we must all learn from these unprecedented events. i propose that before this summer we organise a retex, as the military calls it, that is to say a review of experience to analyse what has happened, to see what could have been done better. we must provide operational answers. i am, like many of my colleagues, in favour of a more integrated mechanism for managing our borders. i therefore propose that we be prepared to deal with any new threat to free movement, in particular in the event of a resurgence of the epidemic. as president lópez aguilar has said, free movement is a key factor in the recovery of the economy and employment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a difficult time we are living in, and perhaps it is especially important in these difficult times to reassess how fortunate we are to be living in this europe at this time. imagine that you were born 100 years ago, that world war i had ended only two years earlier, that the spanish flu had killed 50 million people, that your childhood had been marked by the great depression, and that when you were 13 years old, the nazis came to power in germany. by the time we're 25, the nazis have led germany and the world to the brink. if you were my age, 32 years old, it would be nine years before the berlin wall was built and an iron curtain divided europe. i think that we should also translate this happiness of not being born 100 years ago into a responsibility, especially in times of crisis like this, especially with a virus like this, where we say: we realize what we have achieved, what achievements we have, and we want to find effective measures now to target the virus, not the european project, as unfortunately happened in this crisis.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to correct those of you who have said that national governments have been wrong in their reaction. no, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission is wrong. it is precisely the european commission that has failed on the issue of 'border surveillance'. with its completely inadequate, absolutely inexplicable behaviour, it has forced national governments to take the necessary measures and close internal borders one after the other. a large part of you never understood that in order to have open internal borders, there must be strictly guarded external borders. you can't protect both of those at the same time, you can't want hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants to come here unmolested and have secure internal borders. this can't happen, this is utopia and you've seen it with the panic and the hysteria around this crisis. we cannot fail to mention the totally irresponsible behaviour of the governments of the netherlands or now the netherlands, of germany, which with their internal problems are keeping romania, bulgaria, croatia and malta out of the schengen area. this is hypocrisy and double standards and it must be stopped.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we discuss schengen, we must not forget that it is not just about free movement within the eu and having holiday plans without the passport in your pocket. schengen has been and continues to be associated with the closure of the eu's external borders. it's now reached levels that are terrible to watch. we see it in ceuta and melilla, we see it on the greek border, we see it in the balkans. we are seeing a policy that puts the protection of external borders above the protection of people. but our open internal borders cannot be built on the crime, violations and brutality of the external borders. one of the worst examples today is unfortunately the presidency of croatia, where the partly eu-funded border police commit systematic illegal push-backs. i've been there, i've seen it. the commission has a responsibility to investigate this, but also to put an end to croatia's schengen membership. a country should not be rewarded - no country, croatia or any other - for violating human rights at the eu's external borders.
mr president, i was three when the berlin wall fell. i was 13 when schengen became an integral part of the amsterdam treaty. i was about to finish school when 10 new member states joined our european family. europe was always part of my life. i have experienced it as open, as free and as a promising continent and to be honest, i never expected to see border controls again. yet, understandably due to the nature of the pandemic, and the force with which it hit us, closing borders without coordination caused chaos at the beginning, and even long—forgotten hard rhetoric came up again. the good thing is, we experienced how closely connected we are already, not only across border regions, not only economically, and we saw that schengen, that our freedom, is vulnerable, that it is invaluable, and that we need to protect it. luckily, schengen is getting back on track. europe is getting back on track, with a lot of work ahead of us. so let us draw the obvious lessons learned in the past weeks. let’s prepare schengen better and make full use of it for europe’s recovery. let’s make europe come out stronger. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not yesterday, hundreds of new coronavirus infections were reported in germany again at germany's largest meat company. it's astounding to me and it shows that companies like tönnies have not learned from the crisis and are acting irresponsibly. now some are trying to blame the romanian and bulgarian workers who were affected: they brought the virus across the border. populism is spreading, and we really need to put an end to these conditions. that is why this resolution is a good step. but guidelines are not enough. we need to take really tough action. we need to improve eu law where it is lacking and we need to better enforce it. but i would like to make one more appeal to all mobile workers, to all frontier workers: please do not lose hope in a fair and free european labour market, in fair mobility, because of the closure of the frontiers and the situation. we in parliament are committed to change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in germany, there is a new coronavirus hotspot, and once again the meat industry is affected. 600 newly infected 7 000 employees are in quarantine at tönnies, germany's largest meat group, and these employees are largely from romania and bulgaria. and what does the prime minister of north rhine-westphalia - the christian-democratic prime minister - say now: the slave-like working conditions and the slave-like living conditions of these people are not responsible for the new infections. she said it was her weekend drive home. so i'm appalled, i'm absolutely appalled by that statement. the free movement of workers with romania and bulgaria has indeed led to real problems in north rhine-westphalia: wage dumping, undeclared work, social fraud, prostitution, crime. but to accuse these people of going home and getting infected there, i personally think that's xenophobic. i am appalled by such a prime minister and father of the nation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the man was in his mid-50s, he came from romania. he collapsed on the assembly line, the foremen scolded him for lying on the floor. he had to walk five miles (8 km) to his accommodations and seek a doctor on his own. here in germany, there is no one to support him. over 17 million europeans are cross-border workers: in agriculture, in care, in slaughterhouses, in shipyards and as cleaners. many of them are very poorly paid, have no social security and poor health care. we must not be concerned with their fate only when the coronavirus breaks out in german slaughterhouses. it's scandalous that people are exploited by companies like tönnies or vion. the german government must use its presidency of the council to stand up for the rights of all people, all eu workers, and the eu commission must look to the future and take greater action for workers. it is good that we are starting this process here in parliament with this resolution. let us now work together to improve their situation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all, i want to express my solidarity with the people in the amazon region and especially in brazil suffering from the outbreak of covid—19 and losing family members and friends. in this situation, what can be more shocking than hearing a minister calling to get rid of environmental protection while people are distracted by covid—19? this is what brazilian environment minister, ricardo salles, was caught saying on video. deforestation in the amazon keeps increasing and this is a direct consequence of government decisions. control agencies dismantled, penalty payments for illegal logging stopped and, if this were not enough, the bolsonaro administration is supporting a law which would legalise land grabbing in the amazon. this law could be passed by congress at any moment. i support everyone on the ground fighting these destructive policies and call on my colleagues in the brazilian congress to stop this course of action, especially the law on land grabbing. but, of course, we in europe also have a role to play. supermarkets in the uk threatened to boycott agricultural products from brazil if the land grabbing law is passed. in the space of a week, 350 000 people in germany have signed a petition to ask german supermarkets to do the same and we urgently need deforestation—free supply chains and to end our dependency on the soil. let’s face it, i think the mercosur agreement is dead. resistance was big before, but now in this line that leads brazilian environmental policy, i don’t see any chance for that deal.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals. deep in the north of the brazilian amazon, there is the indigenous community of the ituna-itatá. their territory, the terra indígena ituna-itatá, is protected by law. theoretically, but in fact, more and more loggers, gold miners, cattle ranchers, soybean farmers are invading these protected areas, making the area the most damaged indigenous area in brazil in 2019. various laws already enacted or planned by the bolsonaro government to weaken environmental authorities, facilitate land grabbing and amnesty land theft show little sign of improvement. this is a social catastrophe, but it's also a huge ecological catastrophe, because with the amazon, one of the most important and richest in species is being destroyed, one of the most important combatants against climate change. but this is not just a brazilian issue. europe also has a responsibility, because 10% of the world's deforestation is caused by us and our consumption in the european union, for example, of soy, palm oil, meat and rubber. many companies are aware of the problem and are working to produce more sustainably, but those who continue to cut down forests are profiting handsomely. we must not just look at it, we must find answers. this week i presented my draft report on an eu legal framework to curb and reverse global deforestation. that is why i am calling for companies that want to bring risky products to the european market soon, and the financial institutions that support them, to pay much more attention to where their products come from and under what circumstances they were produced. that requires mandatory duties of care. we're making companies commit that their products have not contributed to the destruction of forests, the damage of ecosystems or the violation of human rights. the ituna-itatá community would also benefit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the ituna-itatá cannot rely on their government to provide them with legal certainty and to assist them in legal disputes to combat land grabbing and environmental destruction. this is the case for many people in countries with weak legal systems or where there is no political will to do so, such as in brazil. that is why they must have access to european courts. when european companies fail to meet their due diligence obligations, they must be held accountable, because a law without accountability is toothless. the brazilian forest, the ituna-itatá, seems far away, but their protection also depends on the products that are on our supermarket shelves. we have the power to change the rules and make products free of deforestation and human rights violations the norm in europe. let's get to it.
land grabbing and deforestation, two crimes against mother nature, perpetrated by a small number of profit-seeking people who don't care about the consequences of their actions for the rest of society. they are cutting down trees, destroying habitats for a variety of animals, and compacting formerly fertile soils so sustainably that only a desolate steppe is left in place of a once magnificent green landscape. by robbing mother nature in this way, man, for the sake of short-term financial success, is taking up space for his own life bit by bit, literally sawing the branch on which he is sitting. the members of this house are turning their attention to the amazon. as in many other debates, this so-called parliament is seriously overestimating its powers, because as long as the amazon is not part of the eu, we should rather look to our member states, where nothing else is happening on a regular basis and where land grabbing and deforestation are being carried out to promote an alleged energy transition that is not a real one.
mr president, madam chancellor, i would like to thank you for your kind words. whoever tries to put this into perspective loses. europe needs courage, speed and the will to reform. money can do a lot, but it can't do everything. let us not make the mistake of thinking that money can cover up failed reforms and structural deficits in the regions. then the next crisis will hit us even harder. this corona package has too much volume and too little future. let us make europe stronger stronger internally with a reform, innovation and modernisation budget for a europe of inventors, for the prosperity of the people, with a depoliticized rule of law mechanism for a democratic union and with a new asylum and migration policy without the dublin principle, but with a european talent pool for a sincere, humanitarian europe and stronger externally with a european union with a strong voice and claim in the world through the correspondingly more efficient institutions. a truly strong geopolitical union must not be fragmented, slow and indebted. that ambition should be our claim.
mr president, madam chancellor, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it may surprise you, but i want to congratulate you. i would like to congratulate you on the fact that with the franco-german proposal for a reconstruction fund you have overcome three taboos in german european policy. the three taboos are: solidarity grants and investment in them instead of the unfortunate talk of the transfer union; secondly, the question of common debt used to finance large joint investments instead of the repeated unfortunate talk of eurobonds; and lastly, the support of european taxes. but, madam chancellor, this is of course a complete reversal of policy during the euro crisis. but at the same time, you probably already know that something else is coming. the question, of course, is whether this commitment must now be more than a one-time thing. so far, the fund is said to be unique. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if we act together and in solidarity just once now, your 180-degree turn will be followed by a pirouette in a few years. that is why it is so important that we do not let the divide in europe be further divided by the corona crisis now. the presidency of the council, madam chancellor, will show whether you want to be a crisis manager or an architect of a stronger europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i am asking you to be absolutely clear and fully committed. good luck with that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are high expectations for this presidency of the council, no question about it. that is what the debate today has shown. in addition, covid-19 is already casting its shadow over the presidency. we must face the consequences of covid-19 together, fight it together. i think that's pretty clear. we proposed the handcuff bonds at the time. i'm asking you to look at these again. i think that's the royal road, also compromising in all other countries. that would also bring europe one step further. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i say to you as the chairman of the german family party and mep that we must finally address the child guarantee. the only way we can tackle this is with a child benefit that we need to introduce across europe to lift millions of children out of poverty, to strengthen the families that are suffering from this covid-19 crisis and to refocus our society as a whole on people. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. i hope that you will support me, madam chancellor, so that we will no longer be making lip service in our sunday speeches, but that we will finally be lifting families and children out of poverty.
madam president, madam chancellor, mr secretary of state and minister for europe, mr roth! i also welcome you very warmly to the european parliament. i look forward to this presidency and have as high expectations as the others. but i see the federal government is well equipped to do so. i think the franco-german proposal was very helpful in making it clear that this presidency intends to act in a european spirit. you spoke of passion, madam chancellor. you know my great passion: that is the rule of law, that is the rule of law. i am very pleased that you have put fundamental rights at the very top. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. we need the rule of law, democracy, an independent judiciary and a free press throughout europe. we need a sanction mechanism that works. i therefore urge you not to be intimidated or turned around by those who want to overturn the two-thirds majority, for example. we need this effective mechanism. because it is not just a matter of putting a stop to these governments, but also of showing the citizens of other countries that we are on their side, on the democratic side.
in writing. today, chancellor angela merkel is in the plenary of the european parliament to present the priorities of the german presidency of the council of the european union. i welcome his majesty's presence among us and look forward to the next six months of this particularly difficult year. the chancellor listed the essential components of the german semester and highlighted solidarity, cohesion, innovation and digital and green development as the main directions of her strategy. the present moment is a particularly difficult one on many levels. germany had already set itself ambitious targets, and these will overlap with the severe challenges facing the entire union at this point, caused by the covid-19 pandemic. i have confidence in chancellor merkel's ability to handle such moments of crisis. the german government's commitment to the european project is well known and will hopefully provide a new impetus to the european union. i regard the current situation as favourable and the auspices appear to be on the union's side. i urge the current presidency to pay greater attention not only to the union's grave internal challenges but also to the complex international situation in which the eu is a key player. we need to continue the traditional transatlantic link and alliance with the us and be vigilant in relation to other international partners.
in writing. the german presidency's agenda for action was presented by angela merkel, with a focus on european unity. given the turbulent times we are living in, it is important to remember that most things work better, both in europe and internationally, when eu countries can agree on big things and do them together. the eu's single china policy is seen as a priority, which is unique from a foreign and security policy perspective, but hardly achievable with just one presidency. germany sees the development of european relations with africa as a second priority and, as the presidency, has the opportunity to make proposals for the further development of the eu's africa policy with a view to reducing poverty and the resulting migratory pressure.
in writing. the european unemployment insurance scheme, described by the german presidency as part of the european pillar of social rights, is a mistake. a community model such as unemployment insurance relieves member states of their responsibility for creating functioning labour markets. instead, it creates a new pot of support, a 'bailout' mechanism for countries that have become financially distressed through self-inflicted debt. the unemployment insurance system saves each member state from correcting its own policy errors and shifts the financial burden onto other member states. in addition, a 'just europe' for the german presidency means that it will actively support the further development of the commission's proposal to develop and introduce an eu framework for national minimum wages. i don't see it that way. this initiative is not only illegal but also economically harmful. it is unlawful because it is contrary to the treaties and the constant case law of the court of justice and cannot be based on the charter of fundamental rights. it is economically and politically harmful because it ignores the fundamental fact that the labour markets of the member states are very different. the respective roles of the state and the social partners vary, as does the mix of legislation and collective bargaining to regulate wages, working time and employment protection. this proposal has a significant impact.
in writing. i stand by the motto of the presidency of the council: together. europe is strong again. the eu is capable of great things if it stands together. i hope that solidarity will prevail between the member states. the challenges facing the eu today are the greatest test of its existence. and only together will we survive.
i have to say, madam president, it is time for the heads of state and government to leave their trenches. we greens will be measuring the outcome of the summit next week by how future-proof it is. we don't care how the 1.8 trillion euros are spent. the entire eu budget must be compatible with the paris agreement. fossil fuels must not be promoted any more. heads of government who violate the rule of law and democracy should no longer receive eu funding. the money is better kept by local mayors and ngos. mr president, mrs chancellor, do not make lazy compromises at the summit at the expense of the climate and our democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. climate change, nature conservation, the erasmus programmes, but also funds for democracy are permanent tasks and cannot be limited to three or four years in a fund. be brave and show responsibility!
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not in the fight against money laundering, you call for transnational cooperation and sanctions. the right way, for surely not everyone here is blind to one particular money laundering industry: ngos. eurojust, europol, the european court of auditors, moneyval and national bodies have for years denounced ngos as money laundering cover-ups. but the eu puts ngos above the law. with money laundered and expertise bought, shady entities like the open society foundation, with over 20 billion euros, are influencing public opinion. hungary has tried to force such opinion-makers to be transparent and has been condemned by the ecj. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
mr president, the european union is clearly a relevant level of cooperation in the field of public health. but the implementation of a public health strategy more than six months after the outbreak is proof that europe has failed in its missions, mainly two of them: first, anticipation, because the european union has set up a specific monitoring and alert agency, the cdc, and it is regrettable that this agency did not react until 22 january, a month after the official information began. the second mission is to provide financial and logistical support to member states in the face of financial, social and health consequences in the event of a crisis. the commission has indeed deployed a great deal of legislative financial resources, but all in a disorderly manner and in a climate of complete impetuosity. today, to call for more europe through the creation of a europe of health, in total disregard of the prerogatives of the state, is a real attack on national subsidiarity. the eu, through its three institutions, would do well to reflect on the health catastrophe caused by keeping its borders open, especially the schengen area. this determination to maintain the free movement of people, carriers of the virus, by land, sea or air, is responsible for the current slaughter.
mr president, commissioner, this crisis has shown that to build a fairer europe, we must guarantee access to quality care for all. to do this, we need a europe of health that allows us to coordinate better to invest in a europe that serves citizens. and i would like to emphasize two points. first, austerity and the covid-19 crisis have exhausted our public hospitals and healthcare providers. europe must support member states' investments in our public health infrastructure. secondly, health should not be the exclusive domain of the private sector. to do this, europe must invest and create public laboratories and research centres whose results will benefit everyone and provide access to cheaper treatments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. health policy is not european policy - it has been for all these years. covid-19 has taught us something better. health policy is very much european policy. we have seen the state of health systems in the countries and how different they are. i come from a country with an excellent healthcare system, and i'm very grateful for that. i have three healthy children, and when i look at the way in which preventive health checks are carried out in other european countries and the standards they have, i say: it is high time to act. we all have to learn. i think what we've learned from covid-19 is that this is about post-covid-19 strategies. this means that we now have to learn not only to make pandemic plans that act immediately - because this will not be the last pandemic, we have to be aware of this - but we also have to look at the health systems in individual european countries in such a way that we create the framework conditions that have to be taken for granted, for example, the framework conditions for the screening of infants and young children, in order to cushion or completely avoid and reduce misery and suffering in advance by early detection. we have already entered europe through cancer prevention, and we must tackle these issues and we must create standards here: quality standards that are binding. so let us say framework conditions and, of course, respect for subsidiarity. we have found 21 members of parliament from the health sector who are willing to negotiate on this. i shall try to bring them together in strasbourg in september. i hope that in future this will be the anchor for pan-european health policy here in parliament.
the next item is the joint debate on statements by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the annual report 2019 on human rights (2020/2688 ((rsp))), on stability and security in the mediterranean and the negative role of turkey (2020/2706 ((rsp)) and on the situation in belarus (2020/2707 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there are no spontaneous exchanges of words or blue cards in this debate.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. the report lists a wide range of successes around the world. but my concern is that these achievements are taking place in a political vacuum and often have little more than a fig leaf function. the greatest humanitarian disaster in the world today is taking place in yemen: women and children are being targeted by militias. since the total breakdown of social structures, poor hygiene conditions have become the breeding ground for horrible diseases. meanwhile, the leaders of the various warring parties reside outside yemen, safe from the chaos they have created. yet we read so little about it. we have outsourced the problem to the un, to saudi arabia and the united arab emirates. it is not even being discussed in this parliament or in the relevant committees. we have a whole section on religious freedom, but nothing specific about the horrific persecution of christians in west africa, the persecution of entire communities because of their christian faith. i have noticed a section in the report on the strengthening of the economic participation of afghan women - a good and very commendable aim in itself. my problem with this is that while this support for afghan women is necessary, we have done nothing about the political situation in which these women have to assert themselves. we are not going to lose any time on the farce of the corrupt electoral process, the extrajudicial executions or the fact that large sections of society are being marginalized by the new government. let's approach these issues with political pragmatism to make a real difference. let us take measures to protect the most vulnerable, instead of settling for trifles.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we stood here in january this year, and in parliament’s resolution on the 2018 annual report we called on the council and the commission to establish a coordinated procedure for granting visas to human rights defenders. and now i’m standing here again: nothing happened. even worse, when i asked the commission about it this march, i received the following answer: the commission is, and i quote, ‘not aware of systemic problems faced by human rights defenders fulfilling the necessary entry conditions in being granted short-stay visas’. seriously? özgür gür was supposed to speak at a round table at parliament on 15 october last year. he’s a 25-year-old lgbti activist. he applied for a schengen visa with the belgian embassy. the mep hosting the event even called the embassy. still he didn’t receive a visa. tomorrow, özgür gür is facing trial in turkey for organising a non-violent protest for lgbti rights. there are so many more people like özgür gür, because to get a visa, you should be married, have a proper job, a regular income, you should not have been in prison or in conflict with state authorities. well, human rights defenders living in oppressive countries can rarely fulfil these criteria, precisely because of the work they do, because of the work we ask them to do and we encourage them to do. and then the commission speaks of no systemic problems? mr borrell, you know this as much as i do. human rights defenders are our partners. without them, we can do nothing when it comes to promoting human rights globally, and their space is shrinking. and now our own visa policies are shrinking their space even more. so i really urge you to get together with commissioner johansson to stop this injustice and adapt the visa handbook, to make sure that they can travel and network and go to conferences. because our role as the european union is to support and protect those fighting for democracy and human rights, and not to make their lives even more difficult.
mr president, as chancellor merkel said yesterday, we cannot look away. we must address the european migration and asylum crisis. yes, we must establish security, but what is security? as long as eu countries are closing down their harbours to migrants and refugees, there is no security in the mediterranean. as long as covid—19 is being used to create de facto detention camps on the greek islands, there is no security in the mediterranean. as long as eu money is being used to fund libyan coastguards and to circumvent asylum law, there is no security in the mediterranean. security in the mediterranean can only be reached by applying asylum and maritime law, by allowing people to disembark after days on freighters and by relocating people out of the camps on the greek islands. day by day, we endanger the lives of human beings, of our brothers and sisters, as our christian democrat friends would say, but we can change and we can learn from our mistakes. first, we need to set up a european asylum system that is centred around the right to asylum and around the asylum interview. second, we must acknowledge that we are a continent of immigration and we must create new channels and new pathways, and create new opportunities for people to enter the european union. (applause)
the commission is not prepared to accept this. yes, the escalation in the mediterranean is worrying. the rhetoric between the greek and turkish sides is intensifying. erdoğan is losing popular support, sliding from one economic and political crisis to the next. that's why he's relying on his military strength right now. that is why the conflict in the mediterranean, that is why the conflict in libya. colleagues, yes, you are right to be upset about erdoğan, his human rights violations, yes, you are concerned about the situation in libya. but then why are you sticking to the refugee deal with president erdoğan and working with libyan warlords? you're talking about an arms embargo by the irini military mission. but member states are still selling guns! i would like to see a stop to arms exports to turkey, for example. it would be more effective. the whole argument and the whole debate is about gas and oil, not just the acp, but also france and italy are involved on different sides for their oil companies. i say all troops must leave!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the migration crisis has been raging since 2015, and yet neither the commission nor the so-called pro-europeans around merkel are seriously prepared to take appropriate measures to finally solve these problems. i'm not going to let you talk to me like that. the eu, in its self-appointed position of weakness, prefers to be blackmailed by the despot of the bosporus and to pay him continuous tribute. he's waging war in syria against the kurds and the yazidis, and he's siding with the hardcore terrorists in idlib. he is using the migration weapon against greece to make us docile. erdoğan controls not only the so-called balkan route, but also the flow of migrants via the mediterranean route through his military presence in libya. erdoğan is not part of the solution in the middle east and the mediterranean, he is the problem! let us finally react in the only language he understands: let us end all support and turn the economic tap on him! we must finally close our external borders and put an end to the criminal smuggling of people by seawatch and co. along the mediterranean route!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are dealing with broken democracies and autocratic systems in many eastern partnership countries. but in no country is the discrepancy between a european society that shares our values and a president who suppresses those values as obvious as in belarus. it is tragic to see how a country which is geographically in the middle of the european continent, with its government, is as far removed from our values as belarus. they're still executing people there! we are not only dealing with a president in minsk who denies corona and instead recommends tractor rides and saunas, but we are also facing crucial elections. never before has dissatisfaction with lukashenko, who has been in power for 26 years, been so great. people want change: they take to the streets, they stand in line for hours to register their presidential candidates. but lukashenko is afraid of competition, he doesn't want to accept a serious candidate. all the promising competitors have been arrested for questionable reasons, are in prison, some are being severely tortured in the old kgb way, and all in the middle of europe. before we negotiate with the regime, we demand three things from minsk that must be met. the first, mr borrell has mentioned, is that there must be a fully equipped osce election observation mission. secondly, the president must not dare not register the promising candidates babaryka and zichanouskaya. this would be a slap in the face to millions of voters in belarus. thirdly, the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners. these are our minimum requirements. this is something that our eu institutions on the ground and we here in brussels, together with the member states and the german presidency, must do. the implementation of this demand is also an important test of the eu's credibility in belarus.
in writing. the establishment of orderly and stable conditions in the mediterranean is an imperative in view of the continued refugee pressure on the main northern destination countries. if this fails, social dislocation in the host countries will increase, and eventually the eu will suffer as a result. the commission believes that the implementation of the eu-turkey migration agreement has made a major step towards tackling the refugee problem. in reality, this gag order, whereby the eu unconditionally gives in to the whims and demands of turkey, is a bad joke, because from 2015 to 2019, despite everything, over 1.21 million cases of illegal border crossings were registered at the eastern eu external borders. between 2016 and 2019, more than 25 000 migrants from turkish reception camps were resettled in the eu. this means that under the agreement's 1:1 arrangement the same number of illegals should have been returned to turkey in the same period. but in reality, there were only 1,954 persons! the eu is very good at hiding its own incompetence, but a total failure at solving the most basic problems. and so the existing drag will drive further hordes of suppliers across the mediterranean to us. the eu-turkey agreement should be terminated and the eu should take the same measures as australia - 'you will not make europe home!'
the next item on the agenda is the second round of voting. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. before we begin, i give the floor to mr gusmão, who has asked to speak, pursuant to rule 159 (4) of the rules of procedure, on his report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. mr gusmão has the floor for two minutes. the vote will then take place from 2.30 p.m. to 3.45 p.m. the same voting procedure as this morning will apply.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the sustainable chemicals strategy by maria spyraki, maria arena, frédérique ries, sven giegold, danilo oscar lancini, pietro fiocchi, anja hazekamp, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000044/2020 b9-0013/2020) (2020/2531 ((rsp)).
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, thursday 9 july 2020, and the final vote will take place tomorrow, friday 10 july 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on strengthening the process of roma integration in europe over the next ten years (2020/2692 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words during the debate and that no blue cards will be accepted.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the german chancellor began her speech yesterday with a strong appeal for fundamental rights in the european union. that was good, and that was right. but this also requires the federal chancellor to be consistent, to be committed to this rule of law and to this rule of law mechanism at the summit. the eu is more than a single market, it is a community of values. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr roth, you have just given a very good account of the negotiations in the council, and i will summarize this briefly. in principle, it can be said that the member states are not in agreement on two elements of the rule of law mechanism: the rule of law and the mechanism. that is the situation in the council today, and that is not enough. we need to ensure that eu funds are not taken away and eu values are not trampled on. it is not about punishing the citizens in the countries concerned, but about ensuring that eu money no longer ends up in the dark pockets of corruption or that it does not end up in the pockets of those who are europe's greatest enemies and who fight europe's values the most. we must ensure that this is the case, and that is why we are sending a strong signal to the council today as the european parliament. it is the summit's great opportunity to use the budget to ensure that those who reject the rule of law in europe are finally shown the red card.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. i was in a soup kitchen in budapest last week and met a former travelling companion of viktor orbán. gábor iványi helps the weakest, those most attacked by fidesz: refugees and homeless people. because ivanovy openly criticizes, because he denounces corruption, because he fights for fundamental rights, viktor orbán is going to finish him off. he's disavowed his church, he's cut off all public funds, he's trying to destroy his life's work. it's a bit like the mafia. iványi is not the only one in hungary, but all those who criticize, they are threatened, fired, harassed. in the mafia state of viktor orbán, the opposition has no place. in recent years, there has not been a single interview, not a single talk show on public television, where opposition figures have been invited. meanwhile, orbán's gang is getting incredibly rich: his father, his son-in-law, his school friends. it's not unheard of for a plumber to become a billionaire. orbán himself is building a stadium in front of his house, he is building the orbán train to nowhere. i was the only passenger last week. it's the complete madness. michael, the role of the german government in this story is shameful. the leading news site origó was sold by deutsche telekom to fidesz people. the federal government has a blocked minority, and you look away, you don't even mention the name of hungary. if orbán abuses the corona emergency, the name hungary does not appear. the negotiations on the mff and the rescue fund are now the last chance to stop this looting in hungary. it's our last chance to show that our values are non-negotiable. we really cannot afford to throw billions at orbán without any controls or sanctions. please don't give up on this, next week at the council!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i don't think anyone in this room is questioning the rule of law. the rule of law is a principle that must be respected and is being respected. the problem is that the rule of law is linked to a mechanism which may not apply equally to all. i see a problem, a contradiction, with the other principles, such as the principle of democracy or the principle of subsidiarity. we must be careful that we do not, in the fight against certain things that really need to be fought - for which we also have agencies such as olaf, the european public prosecutor's office and other agencies, including the court of auditors - arrive at a lex orbán which then binds all the others and which ultimately does not achieve the objective for which it is intended. so let's be careful not to miss the mark here.
i have to say, madam president, this important issue: why is it so important to protect european values through financial consequences? firstly, because each european member state has committed itself to these european values by joining. secondly, unfortunately, because they are no longer self-evident. more and more member states are willing to accept the subsidies but no longer feel committed to the independence of the judiciary, freedom of the media and the separation of powers. thirdly, without respect for these values, the eu cannot function. neither the internal market nor the free movement of workers is conceivable without effective legal protection before any court in any member state. fourthly, because all european citizens have a right to their tax money not being put into the pockets of governments which do not want to adhere to these values. fifthly, unfortunately, because these governments seem to understand no other language than money. the council and the commission! they are assured of the full support of parliament in protecting our values by introducing conditionality and an annual objective monitoring. but you can also be sure that you will encounter determined resistance if you want to prevent, dilute or make this mechanism as useless as possible - whoever tries to do this. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act.
madam president, i am asking that this debate be extended because this is the first debate being held on the issue of culture. you are allocating 30 minutes for this, which is just a plain joke to have a decent debate. we’re not allowed to use blue cards and you’re just pulling us through here like a herd. this is just not efficient enough or sufficient enough for the very important issue that... (the president cut off the speaker)
i have to say, madam president, since the european union has relatively limited powers in the field of culture, i would like to focus on the council, which is today conspicuous by its absence. when chancellor merkel presented the programme of the german presidency of the council here on wednesday, she said exactly one sentence that had something to do with culture, namely, the two hundred and fiftieth birthday of ludwig von beethoven. and i must despise the world that does not suspect that music is a higher revelation than all wisdom and philosophy. it is the wine that inspires new production. anyone who celebrates beethoven's legacy but doesn't even talk about promoting art and culture in these times of crisis would have been punished by the old master with much contempt. neither the chancellor nor the president of the commission have shown in words or deeds that they understand the disastrous situation in which the european cultural and creative sector finds itself. 'united in diversity' is the european motto, but this diversity is in danger of disappearing unless the entire cultural and creative sector across europe is helped. to help the ministers of culture and the heads of state and government to get started, which means: we need a non-bureaucratic basic income for artists. we need local cultural vouchers to stimulate consumption and a european social guarantee for artists. anyone who celebrates the legacy of a dead artist but fails to extend comprehensive help to the living in such a crisis has earned the contempt of all artists.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner ferreira for coming here to us today. i think we have all seen that we needed to take very swift measures in order to help the regions, and i think we did so very well by using three one and two, or three one and plus. but now i think we are in a different stage and we need to follow a good procedure in order to help the most. this procedure, as always, is to evaluate the previous measures, define what we want to achieve and then rethink how we achieve it the best. therefore i have questions for you. for the evaluation, we know that 60 regions have already applied to change to amend the operative programme and therefore we want to see is there a correlation between those who are using the flexibility measures and those regions affected most by covid. are these measures that we have taken actually using them, helping them? my second question: when we want to achieve something for the future we need to take a strategic approach, and therefore i want to ask you, how can we define a strategic approach and how can we ensure it then in react-eu, to actually have the strategic approach where i think less flexibility and more – sorry i’m missing the words here – but you know what i mean, that this is needed, very much.
i have to say, madam president, for the first time in the history of the european union, we are responding to an economic crisis with a common european bond and investment. we greens welcome this fundamental change of system. it is economically wise and politically correct. if we want to emerge from economic crises stronger, we need a european economic and monetary union. but the price of this step was high - too high, we might say. the european union is not a party to the reconstruction package. instead of being spent at european level, the 1.8 trillion euro is spent mainly at national level. after a few stronger years, we will wake up in 2024 with an extremely low eu budget. their only goal was to buy the approval of the greedy five by offering high discounts. research, digitisation, nature conservation, people in coal regions, but also young people who want to travel through europe via erasmus programmes, are the victims of this budget decision. they pay the price for unfair discounts to arrogant heads of government. please explain to us why, in response to the greatest and world pandemic of all, you are shortening the health program, the proposed health program! it doesn't make sense! the 30% climate investment is a step in the right direction. the climate movement, but also many here in parliament, have been fighting for a very long time for more climate investment. but to comply with the paris agreement, that's not enough. we need more investment in climate protection and, above all, in biodiversity. we must ensure that no eu project in the budget is incompatible with the paris agreement. dirty fossil fuels must not be exploited any more. mr michel, we greens are ashamed that the paragraph on the rule of law that you negotiated there has become the bargaining chip for the approval of heads of state and government like viktor orbán. our rule of law and democracy should be taken for granted, because the eu is not a money machine. your proposal makes it far too easy for viktor orbán and others to block these measures in the future, and that is why you must expect strong opposition from the european parliament in the coming weeks. the european parliament is not a spectator. we are budgetary legislators and we take this role very seriously. we will negotiate constructively. we want a deal, but we'll also negotiate hard. the budget for the first phase of the programme is not acceptable to us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is good that we have a result from this summit. but i think the weekend also showed: the member states see the european union as nothing more than a banking machine. it's just a matter of putting in as little as possible and getting as much out of it as possible. and all the member states, by the way. the thrifty are primarily concerned with putting in as little as possible, the others with getting out as much as possible. the european union is not a banking machine, ladies and gentlemen, it must become an insurance policy for the future. and that is precisely why we must also set the priorities for the future - with erasmus, with education, with research and with real european projects, for example a real hydrogen union. the european union must be strong where the member states cannot be strong. but some member states actually see this eu as a banking machine in the sense that they can enrich themselves and their friends with eu money. we have to stop that! we need a legal umbrella for the rule of law in europe to ensure that money no longer flows to would-be autocrats or their corrupt friends. we have to make sure of that. in this respect, merkel and co. have been duped by orbán at this summit, and this european parliament will not accept that.
madam president, good news first: brexit has saved britain eur 80 billion net, roughly the sum the recovery fund would have cost britain. never let a good crisis go to waste! daher gibt die eu bis 2027 1,8 billionen euro aus und macht 750 milliarden schulden. das ist der coup d’état. artikel 310 und 311 aeuv besagen: „der eu-haushalt ist auszugleichen …. [und] wird … vollständig aus eigenmitteln finanziert.“ klare worte, doch die eu macht schulden – illegal! konfuzius sagte: „wo worte ihren sinn verlieren, verlieren völker ihre freiheit“ – nicht in ungarn oder polen, sondern durch brüssel und berlin. merkel geriert sich, als sei deutschland eine allmacht wie die usa nach dem krieg, und drängt anderen deutsches steuergeld gleichsam auf. dabei haben die deutschen das geringste privatvermögen der euro-zone, die höchsten steuern der welt, rekordstrompreise und die geringste wohneigentumsquote. das reiche deutschland hat ganz arme bürger. von der leyen plant eu-steuern und macht illegal eu-schulden. lagarde druckt billionen euro – illegal. drei frauen regieren die eu – kein problem. nur sind es die drei teuersten frauen europas seit madame de pompadour.
i have to say, madam president, it is good that we now have a negotiating position at this eu summit, and it is a strong sign that we in europe are joining hands and supporting each other. but the negotiations are only just beginning. it is not acceptable: cuts in future programmes, in health and research, no strong hand in the breach of the rule of law and too little climate protection. we have promised in this parliament to save the earth - with a climate-neutral europe by 2050 at the latest, with a green deal as a short-term programme. that means decarbonizing the industry. for this we need strong research to support small and medium-sized enterprises. we cannot afford fossil fuels for this. horizon europe, investeu and the solvency instrument are instruments for the future. we cannot accept such cuts. we have promised to stand by the people with a strong fund for just transition, and some regions have already been drawing up their transition plans. the european council is now failing the people. this is not right! we need to move towards a sustainable, solidarity-based economy with all the positive opportunities that it brings, and that is our responsibility.
madam president, madam president of the commission, my dear mr charles michel! a europe that inspires, not burdens, needs an ambitious eu budget, one that reflects our political priorities: smes, innovation, foreign policy. but unfortunately these items of a forward-looking modern budget have been crushed by the weight of national interests. this needs to be fixed. the very pots for a europe of technological leadership, a europe as a real geopolitical player, are equipped with a very small coin, while agricultural posts are equipped with princes. why this focus on possessions? where is the ambition, the courage for reform? where's the way into the future? how do we want to secure jobs, training and wealth? no, ladies and gentlemen, we have to work on this. it is certainly clear that we will not achieve this with a europe on a pump. this cannot and must not be permanent. the new relationship between loans and grants is therefore the right signal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. more repayments, less gifts ... more repayments, mr president, that is the signal for wise investment, coupled with promises of reform. more reforms, that is what europe needs if it is to take on common debts with a unique response to a historic crisis.
i have to say, madam president, i was watching the summit this weekend, as many of you were, and i was very shocked, and i was wondering: hasn't there been talk among the leaders of europe that we are at a point in the 21st century where european nation states will never have the weight, nor the power, to stand alone in this global world, and that nation states can never tackle this crisis alone? the compromise reached at the end of the day had light on the one hand and shadows on the other. the european parliament has been a shadow insofar as it has not been designed for the people of europe and its essential components - we have heard all about this here today - have fallen victim to the red pencil. this is not right, it needs urgent improvement. europe must be built on people, and that is what these programmes we have set up require, and much more. i wondered if the governments had forgotten the applause, or if it had been completely concealed, or if they had not heard it at all, the applause which also reflected the will of the voters, who paid tribute to the people who work in professions relevant to the system - in health care. didn't this come? where are the families, the victims of this crisis? where are they strengthened? i cannot see anything wrong with that, and we must urgently improve it, because we owe it to the citizens of europe. otherwise we are going in a direction that we all do not want to go in europe. this means that people need to feel that europe is good for them, and we urgently need to strengthen the families who are suffering from this crisis. i would like to make this point again to all those involved.
in writing. paymaster germany: only through a dirty backroom deal could the 27 member states agree on the new common eu budget of eur 1.8 billion. austria will thus receive a rebate of around eur 4.0 billion until 2027. the netherlands receives 1.9 billion and sweden about 1.1 billion a year. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. merkel germany was formally begging to be allowed to cover the costs of the others. the result: an additional €10 billion a year now adds up to about €40 billion a year. even before the deal, germany paid 13.4 billion euros more into the eu budget than it subsequently got back. while our 'people's treat's' are celebrating german taxpayers' money, 2.8 million children and young people in this country are living in poverty. this is also true for the many single parents, the precariously employed, the transfer beneficiaries and the poor pensioners. at the same time, italy guarantees its citizens a low retirement age and a so-called "patriot" bond with interest rates of 1.4 percent above the inflation rate, while german savers continue to look in the pipes. germany is not the eu's stupid milk cow and the money of its hard-working taxpayers must therefore be used exclusively for german interests!
we now come to the second round of voting. we now hold the final vote on the motion for a resolution on the conclusions of the extraordinary european council meeting of 17-21 july 2020. the vote will take place from 2.30 to 3.45 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous round of voting shall apply. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3.45 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 5.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 2.30 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to articles 11 and 22 (5) and annex iii of the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register. you, mr. president, are responsible for the security of this building. last friday, 11 september, a greenpeace commando stormed the berlaymont building - the headquarters of the european commission in brussels. greenpeace committed a breach of the peace or a serious breach of the peace. this is clearly a criminal act. so my question to you and the bureau is: how do you deal with this criminal behaviour and how do you ensure that the parliament building is not also used for illegal actions by greenpeace? as you know, the eu transparency register's code of conduct explicitly states that violent home occupations and home breaches can lead to such groups being removed from the transparency register. i recommend this because it is not possible that people who commit criminal acts can still walk around parliament with lobbying passes. i ask the bureau to decide this at the next meeting.
mr president, what we see again is an attack on poland, not because of the violation of the european treaties, but we see the usual attacks on conservative politics by those who are on the left side of the political spectrum. we have these biased reports. it was the sargentini report on hungary, it is now the lópez aguilar report on poland. that is not fair, but it wants to implement leftist politics in poland against the will of the people. the polish people have elected a conservative majority to get conservative politics. the policy on justice and on judges’ appointments becomes now the european standard in poland. a country that does not have european standard is germany, where the president of the constitutional court was a member of parliament and became a directly appointed judge and then president. and if you look at family policy – and i have read the charter of the rights of family in poland – i can only applaud the polish people to have a policy which is focused on families with daddy, mummy and children, and not on different minorities. opposing the gender theory does not mean to suppress gay and lgbti people, it just means that we don’t want those theories taught in schools and universities and made the principle of politics. poland and hungary have decided to follow a conservative line, which is a sovereign decision of the people, and so do people have the right to follow that policy, and it is not an oppression of the treaties. i can only address my polish friends: follow your way, you are right.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. they're trying to convince you that they're human. but that's just ideology. with these words, polish president duda has spread hatred against lgbti people during the election campaign. we greens believe that no president in the world has the right to incite against minorities. most of us cannot imagine what this agitation must be like for young polish lgbtq people. what it's like to be rejected by your own family, or what it's like to be scared by parents who have gay children. what it's like to get beaten up just for walking down the street holding hands with your partner. since the polish election campaign, the situation for lgbti people in poland has deteriorated dramatically, and it is therefore important to show solidarity. we do this here in the european parliament: we stand up for lgbti rights across europe and we must continue to do so. we should be more concrete, we should fight for ngos to be better supported and for these people to have a voice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for all the talks we've heard. you surprise me a little. mr roth, you spoke of a paradigm shift. i read in the files that we're having a quantum leap here. yes, it really is. but that worries me. and that's why i'm concerned, because the last time we had a quantum leap like this -- that was before the crisis in 2008 -- you made a lot of rules to save the euro and greece, and ended up with contract breaches. the german federal constitutional court has confirmed this. now, what's next? now we have new taxes. now comes a new statehood for the eu. they are changing the face of the eu. you want to raise your own taxes, and then what? i want to warn you against doing that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and now here's what happens. such taxes tend to be perpetual. i remind you of the cult tax, which was introduced 100 years ago to strengthen the imperial navy. this tax still exists today. please spare us any further taxes.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. you have rightly pointed out that we must of course look at the whole package. we have already received the multiannual financial framework from the commission in may 2018. that means that the time pressure we are now under is not really the fault of parliament, but that it is because there are very different views in the member states. i do not envy you your task of getting this under control as president of the council. the danger is always that there will be formulaic compromises. we see this, of course, in the rule of law debate. we must also be very clear: new own resources must not be synonymous with something we will fix later, but we must have a legally binding timetable now and we must also be very clear about what it is. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. the joke is that next generation eu is going to the member states for the most part. so it is not a question of acquiring new skills and allocating new funds here in brussels, so to speak, but of financing this programme, which benefits the member states. if we give the green light, it is not because we are unaware of the strategic importance or because we are naive. we are not doing it because we are so enthusiastic about what has been presented so far, but because we know the responsibility we have here. i would like to ask the council very sincerely and i would also ask it to take its own responsibility seriously. the only way to do that is to take parliament seriously. we are ready to discuss. we're not being taken seriously.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu wants new taxes: eu taxes on plastics, financial taxes, carbon cap taxes and digital taxes. the eu parliament also wants own resources from corporate taxes. already today, eu countries have the highest tax rates in the oecd, while the eu is unlawfully financing escalating expenditure with debt. germany is the main contributor to the eu budget and to the eu debt. the german state pays and makes its citizens poor. and so the germans have the lowest median wealth in the eurozone, the lowest real estate ownership rate and the highest payroll taxes and fees in the world. but if your eu tax colony germany has bled to death, what then?
in writing. the european commission forecasts that the eu economy will shrink by 8.3% in 2020. the economic, social and health crisis caused by the coronavirus must therefore be addressed by a common eu response. the eu's budgetary framework for 2021-2027 and the next generation eu recovery facility of eur 750 billion are key elements of this. in order to ensure that the financing of the recovery fund does not lead to increased contributions from member states to the union budget, reform of the eu's own resources is essential. the european parliament had already called for the adoption of several new revenue sources prior to the negotiations, such as the common consolidated corporate tax base, the taxation of digital services, the financial transaction tax, the revenue from the emissions trading scheme, the contribution of plastics and the mechanism to offset the carbon intensity of imported consumer goods. unfortunately, however, there are member state governments, such as the orbán government, which are threatening that if the next mff payments are made subject to stricter conditions than the rule of law requirement already agreed, the hungarian parliament will not approve the own resources decision, which would jeopardise the entire aid package. we cannot allow the tool for monitoring compliance with the criteria deriving from the eu treaties to be blackmailed by populist forces, threatening the proper eu response to the damage caused by covid-19.
the agenda includes the report by mr nikos androulakis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 1313/2013/eu on a union civil protection mechanism (com ((2020) 0220 - c9-0160/2020 - 2020/0097 ((cod)) (a9-0148/2020).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union's civil protection mechanism is a practical expression of solidarity. it supports states that need to deal with high-risk emergencies: natural disasters, health crises, even possible biological, chemical or nuclear accidents. until now, his work has been focused on fighting forest fires. after all, resceu was born as an idea after the deadly fires in portugal in 2017. europe then seemed powerless to help one of its own. but also in the 2018 maati tragedy, where over a hundred people lost their lives in a matter of minutes. even the most sceptical at the time understood that we need more european intervention, both at the level of prevention and at the level of response. in 2020, we experienced a giant historical upheaval, one that has shaped entire generations and changed mindsets and behaviors: the covid-19 pandemic. who would have thought that after a century of rapid scientific and technological development, history would repeat itself not as farce but as tragedy? hundreds of thousands of people around the world, including over 140,000 of our fellow citizens, lost their lives. the economic and social costs are still uncertain. we must therefore act proactively, even for the unforeseen. the changes we voted for a year and a half ago strengthened the mechanism, something that became visible during the pandemic. his action saved our credibility when, at the beginning of the crisis, governments were making disappointingly unpleasant decisions. we then transported over 75,000 european citizens who were able to return home from every corner of the globe, thanks to the coordination and funding of the mechanism. in march, and as the pandemic was already spreading, resceu set up for the first time pan-european medical stocks, with protective equipment such as masks, essential equipment such as respirators, and with provision to include vaccines or treatments when available. it's been a lot, but i'm sure we can do a lot more together. the pandemic has also revealed weaknesses that we must address immediately. last february, president michel proposed a budget reduction for the mechanism to €1 billion for the period 2021-2027. but events that followed showed how wrong his suggestion was. for 2020 alone, the treaties have forced the commission to add an additional eur 400 million to the mechanism. italy was also the first to activate the mechanism, requesting assistance at the beginning of march. however, the material was delivered to her at the end of april, when the pandemic was already gradually receding. in 2017, after the fires in portugal, president juncker, in announcing the creation of resceu, was calling for a europe that can effectively protect human life, and not just send condolences to the families of the victims. unfortunately, because of the council's obsession at the time, the effort was left unfinished. the report we are discussing today is intended to complete this task. we are making a real contribution to prevention by creating pan-european resilience targets for cross-border risks and linking them to national response plans. we are increasing funding to 100% for all the instruments included in resceu, including firefighting aircraft. we are giving the european commission the right to buy the means itself, when it is necessary, so that aid arrives on time, so that what happened in italy, namely the two-month delay, does not happen again. and finally, we are tripling the budget of the mechanism for the next period, with an additional €2 billion from the european recovery fund, bringing the total to over €3 billion. we want the mechanism to be able to respond immediately and effectively not only to a possible second wave of pandemics or wildfires, but also to any other gray or black swan that comes along, threatening to change our lives in dramatic and unexpected ways.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, on behalf of my friend and colleague janez lenarčič, who can’t make it tonight, i am really pleased to discuss with you the report prepared by mr androulakis on the commission’s proposal to amend the union civil protection mechanism. as europe continues to struggle with the covid—19 pandemic, we must recognise this as one of the worst health crises the continent has experienced in over 100 years. the statistics are harsh. within the european union alone, almost 4 million confirmed cases and over 210 000 deaths have been recorded to date. at the beginning of the crisis, unfortunately the response to requests for assistance was often too slow, or failed to materialise. the honourable member of parliament, mr androulakis, has already referred to this, and once again i have to say that the eu member states were not in a position to provide assistance through the union civil protection mechanism from their own resources. 25 out of 52 requests to the mechanism remained unanswered and 27 were answered only partially. the current system of civil protection relies on solidarity among member states. this means that it depends largely on voluntary offers from member states. this works very well in most types of emergencies. an example is the recent explosion in lebanon, where more than a dozen member states offered assistance through the union mechanism. but the limits of the current system were quickly reached during the early stages of the covid—19 crisis, when virtually all eu member states were affected at the same time. the european council recognised these limitations in its joint statement of 26 march. it gave the commission a clear task to propose a more ambitious crisis management system within the european union. the voice of the european parliament to strengthen the union’s mechanism was equally strong, and the commission has reacted. the revised proposal adopted in early june aims to strengthen european response capacities by expanding the scope of rescue, drawing lessons from the covid—19 pandemic. it would make our system more flexible, faster and more comprehensive, and ultimately more effective in the case of large—scale complex emergencies. the commission welcomes the report by the committee on the environment, which recognises the impact of strengthening the mechanism’s response capability through direct procurement of specific items by the european commission, so that we can better support the member states in case of need. second, strengthening the european response coordination centre, serving as a hub for the national civil protection centres to help strengthen our coordination, and thirdly putting a strong focus on prevention and preparedness, including through the establishment of union—wide resilience goals. these are key aspects of our proposal. we also have the opportunity now to put in place an ambitious budget to support this enhanced eu civil protection mechanism. as you know, the commission has proposed to allocate eur 3.1 billion for civil protection over the next seven years. the covid—19 pandemic has shown that nature rolls the dice. this is our wake—up call. the next large scale emergency will strike again. it is only a matter of time. the way we choose to act now will determine how prepared we will be in the future. i hope that the report prepared by mr androulakis will receive your wide support.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already done so. you are right, that is indeed an ambitious budgetary objective you have set yourself. you have our support. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the budget. that is a good proposal, and we support it. it is also good that we finally have a programme here that has real european added value and not just distribution to the member states. two points are still important to me personally: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts, the development of a european network of national experts and the development of a european network of national experts. it'll also help with visibility. and that is my second point: because it must never happen again that foreign powers are visible in a crisis and the european union is not. this requires an ambitious approach, also from a budgetary point of view. you have our support.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to present to you today my report on emissions from shipping. the only sector in which the polluter principle does not apply is maritime transport. there is no pricing of greenhouse gases or emission reduction targets. shipping is not explicitly mentioned in either the kyoto protocol or the paris agreement, although emissions from the sector are expected to increase by 50% between 2018 and 2050. and already today, maritime transport to and from ports in the european union emits 138 megatons of co2 annually. this is 3.7% of the eu's climate-related emissions. that's as much as is being dumped in all of belgium. we know this because the eu adopted the mrv regulation in 2015. from 2018, all ships above 5000 gross registered tonnes, regardless of who owns them, whose flag they fly, or for whom they operate, will be required to report their co2 emissions when using eu ports. these reports are verified, reported, and made publicly available in a transparent manner. the eu has adopted this regulation, and the international maritime organisation, the imo, has finally moved to set up its own system. the commission put forward a proposal last year to bring the reporting systems closer together, but unfortunately it missed the opportunity to move from counting to reducing emissions. and we can do so much statistics, and we're not saving a single gram of co2. this house declared an air conditioning emergency last november. we must live up to our responsibility to the planet and to future generations. the commission's proposal is therefore supplemented by two important amendments: first, maritime transport will be included in the ets as of january 2022. this will, for the first time, provide an incentive to reduce co2 emissions from ships. there is already a comprehensive impact assessment, and it shows that this would reduce emissions from the sector by more than twenty percent. mrs von der leyen and mr timmermans have repeatedly promised to include shipping in the ets as part of the green deal. we are now putting forward a proposal which not only generates own resources for the eu budget - which should make mr hahn very happy - but also creates a fund for research and development of climate-friendly ships and for the financing of marine protected areas. secondly, we want to increase the average efficiency of ships by 40% by 2030, compared to 2018/2019 - for which we have very good data - and that's a very good indicator. this sector can thus contribute to increasing the climate targets for 2030, which we are negotiating in the climate act. if transport volumes remain the same, this measure alone would close 10 percent of the gap we have if we increase climate targets by 2030. we also want to do a few things, such as extending the monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions to include the extremely climate-damaging methane, which is increasingly used in lng ships, and where there are already studies showing that methane emissions have increased massively from maritime transport. we call on the commission to take action to ensure that we have zero emissions in ports. it is about protecting the health of our citizens, who can no longer be expected to be exposed to pollutants. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and it has been asked to do so. i think we have to take responsibility and reduce emissions in all areas as quickly as possible. i would like to thank my colleagues once again for their good cooperation in this report.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i am grateful to the commission for the information it has given me. i would like to say a few words again because it may not have reached everyone. as the mrv regulation already applies to all ships entering eu ports, regardless of the flag they fly, who they belong to, or for whom they sail, our proposals to extend this regulation now are, of course, aimed at covering the entire scope of the mrv. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disadvantaged. if you do not want to enter the eu because you do not want to sell goods here, you are of course free to do so. but i don't think that's going to happen any time soon. i would like to clarify one thing because it is always confused. in the efficiency target, we talk about the fact that by 2030, the fleet's emissions have to be 40% below the fleet average the fleet average today. that means the first movers, who have already done something, whose ships are already much more efficient, they also have a much smaller path to go. that is, their efforts are automatically rewarded because, of course, they have already made their investment, while everyone else has yet to do so. this gives them a competitive advantage, because they use much less fuel. as regards the openness of technology, i would also like to say this briefly: if you don't want to invest, you can just slow down. if you reduce your speed by 20%, you can save 40% of fuel. so you can achieve this efficiency goal by simply driving slowly. last point: i've been on a lot of panels now. there are many possibilities, whether it be methanol or ammonia, which are just waiting for a signal to be given that the maritime sector is being taken into account, because then such investments will be worthwhile.
rapporteur. – madam president, arms are not like any other export goods, because far too often they are used to suppress opposition or to kill civilians. and that is why it’s so important that once a year we discuss eu arms exports in this parliament, and that’s also why it’s so important that we use this report to improve our way to control where arms end up in this world. and that’s why i decided to use my report to focus on two things: on transparency and on convergence. in our report we all together reached quite a lot. for example, we are calling on the european external action service to actually translate these 500 pages of numbers and columns into an online-searchable database so that public oversight is actually possible. we also ask the european external action service to build up a joint eu-level end-user control, rather than forcing 27 member states to do like a semi-functional system, and we have a number of other suggestions on which we reached broad consensus in our negotiations. and i think we can be very proud, because they help us to better scrutinise and regulate eu arms exports. but as proud as we all can be, this doesn’t solve the main problem, and the main problem is that we have one common position on arms export of the eu, but we have 27 national interpretations, 27 export systems, and an increasing divergence in actual exports of member states. and the more we work together in arms production, the more this will be a problem ˗ the more this will be a problem for democratic control and oversight, because if member states produce arms together, who actually decides over the exports? is it the member state that puts in the most parts? is it the member state that puts in the last screw? can one block all? do you need to vouch your rights for democratic control before you can join? this is not very clear. and the conflict between france and germany last year over arms exports to saudi arabia clearly showed how easily this can create tensions. but this divergence is also a problem for a common eu foreign and security policy. we were also happy about the good results of the berlin conference earlier this year. we even set up an eu mission in the mediterranean to enforce the arms embargo against libya, and this very same mission reported a violation of the arms embargo by turkey and the uae, yet eu member states still supply turkey, the uae and all the other countries breaking this arms embargo with weapons, and some of these weapons end up with sarraj, others end up with haftar, all fuelling the violence. and mr borrell, i really wouldn’t want to be in your shoes trying to build a consistent eu foreign policy on that mess. and then, my dear colleagues from epp, there’s the arms industry: the arms industry that already today complains that all these national regulations make cooperation super difficult, that arms export decisions are not reliable and that they cannot do business that way. and to be frank, i totally get their point. and dear colleagues, all these examples clearly show that if we want to do joint arms production, we need to do joint arms export control as one eu. what i really don’t understand is why the commission, the member states and parts of this parliament are pushing so much for an internal defence market for joint arms production ˗ even putting money into it ˗ and at the same time, the very same people refuse to even discuss an eu-level involvement in democratic oversight and export control and thereby undermine what they want to reach: a european defence union and strategic autonomy of the european union. i want to thank all my shadows for the very fierce and fair debates we had in the negotiations. we’ve reached a lot, but on this point we didn’t reach consensus, and that’s why i decided to bring it to the parliamentary debate today. i’m very much looking forward to the discussion.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu, which has won the nobel peace prize, is not only allowing inhumane conditions to exist in moria, but is even creating the conditions for refugees to flee the country through arms exports. this policy is in no way to be relativized or excused. examples would be yemen, a brutal war with eu-made weapons. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and to help the people of europe. eastern mediterranean, an escalating spiral. greece gets arms from france, turkey gets arms from germany. what do you mean, "i'm not"? weapons made in the eu again! the eu is the world's second largest arms exporter. the coffers of the arms companies are ringing. and i wonder what has happened to the common position which prohibits arms exports to crisis areas, bans them - is this still of any interest? i think we need to sanction these abuses, because the common position must be respected. and you have a duty to do the same, mr borrell.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i understand the criticism. i heard some interesting points for sure. let me summarise some of your points. first, criticism on exports from member states to sensitive destinations. yemen, saudi arabia and turkey have been mentioned, but as one of the members that participated in the debate rightly remembered, decisions when issuing export licences are taken at the national level. so there is very little we can do from the european commission. this is something that is taken at the national level, but we can call for more conversions in arms export policies as the member states implement it. and on that, i agree completely. here we are together, because we think that we can behave together in accordance with general rules which reflect our values. so it’s a member state competence, but we need more convergence on the way each member state implements these competences. there are also calls for arms embargoes for specific destinations. i could also agree, but an arms embargo to a specific destination requires unanimity in the council. you should be aware of that, and you know how difficult it is to get unanimity today. but for sure, we can try to agree an arms embargo, but then you have to implement them and experience shows how difficult it is to do so, as we tried to do with the irini operation in libya. first unanimity, and second the willingness to really implement the decision. military weapons have an indispensable role in the preservation of security, freedom and peace, provided that they are used in accordance with international law, human rights law and international humanitarian law. you cannot pretend to have security, and to protect freedom and peace, without having military resources. but you have to use them according to the law, and weapons of war are, by definition, capable of inflicting death and destruction. this ambivalence means that governments that export the weapons must ensure that they are traded and used in a responsible and accountable way, and prevent their diversion to terrorists, criminals and other unauthorised users. this must remain our ambition: to control the use of these weapons in order that they are not being misused. but by definition weapons inflict death and destruction, and our role is to try to be sure that they are used in accordance with the rules of war, and with the rules that protect human rights. accountability for arms export decisions can only take place when authorities are transparent, and the european union does all it can to ensure that utmost transparency is being upheld. this enables national parliaments, civil society and also the european parliament to hold informed debate, and the council and the parliament clearly agree that the strengthening of the european defence technologies and industrial base should be accompanied by closer cooperation and conversions in the control of exports of military technology and equipment. i will continue working in the process of increased convergence, and promoting more transparency in arms exports in the framework of the competences of the commission and of the high representative.
rapporteur. – madam president, we reached a lot with this report and i would be very happy if we could confirm our many forward-looking proposals in the final version on wednesday. but let’s not stop halfway. if we want the eu to play a role in this world in chaos, and if we want to build a true european defence union, we need to join in arms production, but we also need to join in oversight and arms export control. et je comprends bien que ce sujet est une prérogative nationale, oui, but there is one thing that this european project has taught us: no one is going to come, mr borrell, and give this european union and this commission any competences all by themselves, and no one is going to come and offer this parliament any rights for scrutiny, oversight or control. if we do not claim it and fight for it, it’s not going to happen. and that’s why i call on all pro-european parties in this house – and i deliberately include ppe and renew in this one – to vote tomorrow for amendment 19; to vote for amendment 19 that calls on the member states and commission to translate the common position on eu arms export, the common position that was reaffirmed by all 27 member states one year ago, to transfer this common position into eu law. and to do it, to finish what we started, and make sure that the european union can really control where eu arms, arms produced inside the eu, end up in this world in chaos.
deputising for the rapporteur. – madam president, it is the first time in this parliament that i address you on behalf of a colleague, and not on behalf of myself: the rapporteur, sven mikser, who unfortunately couldn’t be here today. so allow me to give you his statement. as we are discussing a report focusing on the implementation of the association agreement between the eu and georgia, i would like to recall that the association agreement is a comprehensive framework that covers a wide range of policy areas from political dialogue, rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, all the way to economic and trade relations. the report points out that enhanced cooperation and eu assistance to georgia are based on the more-for-more principle and are conditional on continued reform processes across all policy areas. georgia has undertaken ambitious reforms and achieved a lot. it deserves to be underscored that georgia’s european aspirations enjoy broad support among almost all the political parties as well as among the georgian people. the report also recalls that the eu-georgia association agreement and ecfta aims to gradually integrate the country with the eu single market and calls on the commission to be more vocal in promoting and advancing this goal. political life in georgia, as we all know, is lively and dynamic. a worrying trend is the increased polarisation of the political scene. this report underscores the need to de-escalate the political discourse and continue reforms in order to guarantee media freedom and independence of the judiciary. recently, georgia has experienced a period of tensions between the government and the political opposition over changes to the electoral system. at the end of june the georgian parliament passed a constitutional amendment that is designed to provide for more proportional representation and, hopefully, for more pluralistic political discourse after the parliamentary elections in 2020. with those elections approaching, the report emphasises the need to uphold and protect media freedom and guarantee equal access to the media for all political parties during this important election campaign. the elections will take place on 31 october, and i believe that if the covid-19 situation allows for it, the european parliament should also dispatch an election observation mission to georgia. the report commends georgia’s internationally-acclaimed response to the covid-19 outbreak, and i would also like to highlight the exemplary cooperation between the eu and georgia in responding to this crisis. and while assessing the progress georgia has made, we cannot forget that one fifth of the territory of the country continues to be occupied. hundreds of thousands of people are unable to return to their homes or face restrictions to their fundamental rights and freedom. and in addition, georgia continues to be a target of russian hybrid activities. the report strongly condemns the ongoing provocations and the borderisation activities that continue along the administrative boundary line. finally, the report received the almost unanimous support of the foreign affairs committee in this house, and the rapporteur, sven mikser, would like to thank all the political parties and the groups who expressed their support to the legitimate aspirations of the georgian people as well as to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, as you know very well, georgia is a very close partner in our neighbourhood and subscribes to an ambitious association agreement with a deep and comprehensive free-trade area underpinned by common values, shared ownership and responsibility. our relations have been maturing from the human rights agenda to connectivity, security, cooperation and academic exchanges under erasmus+. our norms on standards are gradually aligning, making real improvements in the lives of georgian citizens. we are looking forward to continuing to cooperate with georgia, to agree joint priorities in an association agenda for post-2020, strengthening our cooperation, for instance to fight abuses in the visa-free regime, and i am also confident that our eastern partnership in march 2020 will devise a compelling vision for our multilateral relations. our solidarity to support georgia in mitigating the socio-economic consequences of covid-19 is steadfast. i think more than eur 180 million in bilateral funds and eur 150 million in macro-financial assistance remains conditional on progress made. let me have a look at the domestic challenges and opportunities of this country, and let me make reference to three important issues: the electoral context; the justice reform; and the conflicts. this is a crucial month ahead of the october parliamentary elections in georgia. in march, the political parties reached a historic agreement, co-facilitated by the european union delegation. it created a new electoral system more conducive to inclusive gradual and transparent elections. and now we expect effective implementation of these laws and respect for the highest democratic standards. in the justice sector it is important for the georgian parliament to revisit the selection procedure for supreme court judges, which undermines a transparent, genuine, merit-based nomination process, as you mentioned in the report. it is critical to uphold the highest standards of ethics and integrity in the judiciary. finally, let me also reaffirm our unwavering commitment to georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders. i agree with you that the continuing borderisation is completely unacceptable, since we have seen a deterioration of security along the administrative boundary line with the breakaway region of south ossetia, such as in the chorchana-tsnelisi area. i am also very concerned about the continuous closure of crossing points, complicating medical treatment, contacts and access to livelihood. we are constantly reiterating our concerns to russia in bilateral and multilateral fora and we will continue doing so on behalf of the stability of georgia that deserves peaceful borders with all its neighbours. thank you for your attention. i’m looking forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i congratulate my colleague the rapporteur on a balanced report which i hope will receive broad support in the vote. georgia is on the right track, committed to the implementation of the association agreement and the dcfta, and has made efforts towards democracy, fundamental human rights and freedoms and good governance. in order to resolve the internal political tension, a memorandum of understanding was reached on 8 march, which resulted in the amendment of the constitution and the electoral law in accordance with international recommendations, so that the october parliamentary elections will be held on the basis of the new principles. this is a milestone in the normalization of georgia's domestic political environment, which we all look forward to and hope to see in fair and clean elections. georgian society has chosen europe, so we must support it. we must mutually exploit the potential of the association agreement to deepen economic and trade cooperation. a positive approach, the more for more principle, and support for georgia in implementing the necessary reforms are important. it is important to help young people to participate as much as possible in eu mobility programmes and to receive quality learning opportunities. i would like to highlight georgia's effective defense during the covid pandemic, which is exemplary. finally, i would stress that we must stand up for georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity and declare our support for its euro-atlantic and nato integration aspirations. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the upcoming parliamentary elections in georgia on 31 october are a possibility for georgia to demonstrate to its people that it is set and ready to be a stable democratic country. the agreement reached by the political parties earlier this year on electoral reforms is the right step and must be fully implemented in order to be able to move forward and to overcome the political polarisation that has long been hampering progress in georgia. the georgian authorities should refrain from pursuing any politically motivated judicial cases and harassing opposition politicians. it is also imperative to guarantee media freedom, editorial independence and to take steps to prevent disinformation campaigns. also, the people must be guaranteed freedom of thought and assembly. there are still many areas that need to be improved, like consolidating the rule of law, the fight against corruption and strengthening human rights and fundamental freedoms. it has been 12 years since the beginning of the recent conflict between russia and georgia. unfortunately the conflict is still there. the ongoing illegal borderisation along the dividing lines damages the situation, prolongs the conflict and destabilises the whole region. in these especially fragile times of the covid-19 pandemic, it is unacceptable that the de—facto south ossetian authorities have repeatedly denied emergency medical evacuations and incoming humanitarian aid. we have the obligation to not forget this conflict, but to continue supporting georgia’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. since we have seen many challenges in georgia throughout the past year, it was good to see that cooperation among the international friends of georgia worked. with all our and your support, the major political parties struck a deal on a new electoral system for the upcoming elections. these elections are crucial to georgia’s democratic path. georgia also demonstrated significant success in fighting covid-19. in this struggle, the eu supported georgia with assistance worth some eur 100 million. despite being the leader in the region, some problems still have to be overcome. internally, the shadow rule of billionaire ivanishvili threatens democracy. externally russia’s continuous hybrid war threatens the country’s sovereignty through military occupation, creeping annexation and cyberattacks. we need to support georgia’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and its european future. a level playing field should be guaranteed for all political actors, while the judicial system should become more transparent.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent report. despite obstacles and difficulties, georgia is maintaining its euro—atlantic direction, in particular in the security and defence domain. in the run—up to the parliamentary election, i urge the georgian authorities to ensure its free, fair and transparent character. i also appeal to them to free giorgi rurua, thus fulfilling the 8 march agreement reached with all the opposition leaders.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking mr sven mikser for his comprehensive report. i am glad that there is a broad consensus in this house on the assessment of georgia's development. in georgia there is a broad political consensus on the european orientation of the country. the eu, unlike russia, has something positive to offer. however, the political landscape, as in most transition countries, is highly polarized and marked by mutual distrust. this is not conducive to the domestic political atmosphere or to any rapprochement with the eu. it is therefore extremely welcome that all the major parties agreed to the joint declaration of 8 march, in which they agreed to a new electoral system in line with the recommendations of the venice commission. i would like to take this opportunity to thank in particular our ambassador hartzell and his team for their contribution. i hope that the campaign and the election on 31 october will be used by all those responsible in the spirit of fairness in the application of the new legal framework. if the media fairly reflects the diversity of political opinions, if election observers have the impression that citizens were able to cast their votes well informed, and if the electoral authority is beyond any doubt that it is acting impartially, then this would be a good day for the country and its future.
i have to say, madam president, i was privileged to travel to georgia with the delegation last year. i was surprised by the speed with which the state reacted: i was given the list of the 85 prisoners, within 24 hours it was settled 81 were free, and four were charged, but also rightly charged, for trying to use armed force to overthrow the government. so georgia, i mean, was very flexible. we were talking about the right to vote. it should not be changed until 2024. it was changed in march, as we all know. so these are all signs that georgia is desperate to join europe and that was yesterday rather than today. that means we have it in our hands to bring georgia into our house europe as soon as possible. because we all know about the situation with russia, we see it in crimea, with ukraine, how russia is acting in part, and we know about the occupied territories in georgia as well. europe is now obliged to do so. we should now bring georgia into europe as quickly as possible and make it a full member. georgia is ready. that is why it is up to us to take action after the elections in october and to say: georgia will become a full member of the european union. i wish that, so that the country has a proper perspective. it has developed so well that we are now on the verge of taking that final step, and not just an agreement.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to start by expressing our unconditional solidarity with, and empathy for, our greek colleagues and their citizens. it is hard to overestimate how it must feel to be threatened by a very aggressive and big, powerful neighbour. at the same time, let’s admit something: this conflict will not be solved by one-sided blaming or bilateral escalation. the legal claims of neither side are solid enough to convince the world and this union, nor are the nationalist shouting matches that we witnessed in the committee on foreign affairs (afet) just last week, on both sides. what will solve the problem are four things. first, stop the escalation and return to the status quo ante. second, start negotiating a comprehensive strategic deal on the eastern mediterranean, which will prevent similar conflicts in the future. third, we should refuse to talk about empires – i refuse to do so. we’re not in ottoman times and we’re not in the times of the roman empire. we should urge our turkish colleagues to gain more credibility as a foreign power and as a democracy. without credibility in terms of democracy in ankara, we will not be able to avoid conflicts in the future. and fourth, and i will end with this, we should extend the green deal to the mediterranean. stop fighting over fossil fuels of the 19th century! let’s invest jointly in new green technology in that region too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the military foreign policy of the erdoğan regime is, of course, to be condemned. but this conflict is not about erdoğan. he's even got the support of the people here. the fact is, old arguments have flared up over the gas. the fact is, there are many players in the eastern mediterranean: international oil companies trying to secure their stakes. but instead of giving in to the desires of exxon mobile, eni or total, fair, sustainable political solutions should be found - which are also central to the cyprus question. but mr roth, calling on turkey to de-escalate now and at the same time exporting warships from germany is not credible. but it is also a fact that france is currently selling a lot of war equipment to greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let us stop serving the interests of arms and oil companies and let us make peace a lasting one in the interests of the people of europe, turkey and greece.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in my youth, turkey was a military regime that was opposed by all the left and was the pariah of international society, but it was a secular regime. the situation in turkey today is much worse than it was then, especially as regards the situation of ethnic and religious minorities and women. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we know that, and we've been discussing it over and over again, and nothing's happened. now turkey is even threatening two full members of the eu with military action, and still nothing happens. we are discussing this, but i continue to hear from the left that we needed more dialogue and de-escalation. de-escalation, dear leftists, is another word for betrayal of european values. that is why i am in favour of ending the dialogue now and not de-escalating it, but rather escalating it, that is, escalating it in the spirit of european values, and finally enforcing these european values - also in relation to turkey.
in writing. turkey has repeatedly threatened some eu member states in recent days. it is always about gas in the mediterranean, about migration and, or about cyprus. the eu parliament rejects these threats as 'unacceptable' for a candidate country. what do you mean, unacceptable? i think that the eu's actions are unacceptable. why is turkey still a candidate country for eu membership? what's left to happen? does turkey have to declare war on greece first? the accession negotiations have failed. the billions of euros we have paid turkey in accession aid have been thrown away. we can write it off. we're just having a show of negotiation. we should end this theater as soon as possible and finally face reality. from 2007 to 2020, we have paid a total of about 10 billion euros to turkey. the money is gone. if we believe that erdogan will change his course just because we give him a few billion, then we are naive and cling to a fiction. turkey handles 30% of its international trade with germany. we should use our market power to push our interests against erdoğan. instead, our chancellor is being blackmailed by this would-be sultan with a half-baked "refugee deal".
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the developments in belarus in recent weeks have been dramatic. hundreds of thousands of peaceful protesters take to the streets every day to demand freedom and to protest against rigged elections. and it's the peaceful resistance of women in particular that we're most impressed with. her courage is unparalleled. the brutal treatment of peaceful citizens by the regime of lukashenko is extremely shocking. police violence, martial arts with kalashnikovs here on one side, roses, dancing and music there. krasser could hardly be the opposite. the images of women's emancipation and their peaceful resistance expose the dictator. this revolution is female. the citizens of belarus want only two things at the moment: free and fair elections and the release of all political prisoners. the council of the eu did well not to recognise the election result. a unanimous vote for re-election would be important now. the massive police presence, the torture in prisons and the election fraud must have consequences for those who ordered and carried it out. therefore, we demand a hard sanctions list for all those in the regime's apparatus, including lukashenko, who are involved in the repression of civil society, students in universities and strikers in factories. under no circumstances should eu corona aid or other eu economic aid now lead to further support for the old regime. the money must go to the people of belarus, not to their tormentors. in order to hold the perpetrators of torture in belarus to account, we call for an international commission of inquiry under the mandate of the un special rapporteur on torture. but we should also add to the sanctions list those who are cooperating directly with the lukashenko regime from russia, such as the russian journalists who are carrying out propaganda for lukashenko on belarusian state television. only if all those involved feel that their actions are not without consequences can we be effective. mr. borrell, you and your foreign ministers take over and see that we do justice to the peaceful protesters in belarus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the situation in belarus. i can assure you that it is a great people, full of intelligent and pleasant people, who are also very conservative - probably the most conservative people we have in europe. so there's little reason to believe that a feminist revolution is coming. but this people are fed up with the dictator lukashenko and his kolkhoz methods. the election is clearly rigged, and it requires clear pressure to break up with him. we should always learn from the mistakes of ukraine. there is no reason to link the call for popular sovereignty in belarus with anti-russian rhetoric, as we have heard again today. russia must be brought on board and fears of a new maidan must be removed if we are to realistically help the belarusians to become masters of their own country again. anyone who speaks out against russia is bringing russia to lukashenko's side and creating a conflict that nobody here wants.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the explosion in beirut's port on 4 august killed over 200 people, injured 6,500 and displaced 300,000. the pictures were terrifying. i would like to take this opportunity to express my solidarity with the lebanese people. we must now do everything we can to ensure that aid reaches the people who need it most. but this help is just a bandage on an open wound. decades of mismanagement, corruption, political chaos and the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic have led to an unprecedented economic myocardial infarction. the country has been insolvent since march. the population is impoverished, and many well-educated people are leaving the country. in addition, the six million lebanese now host 1.5 million syrian refugees. without outside help, money will soon be unavailable to import food or vital medicines. we europeans offer our full support. but this also requires a fundamental rethinking of lebanon's ruling class. i therefore welcome president macron's initiative to call for fundamental reforms. europe must join these demands, because people have lost confidence in politics. there can be no more "this way".
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, our sympathy is with alexei navalny and his family. the attempt on his life is something that we have known before, for many years. opposition leaders and independent journalists in russia are not safe – from politkovskaya to nemtsov, from kara—murza to verzilov. those are just the names that we know. the list of victims pains us, because we have grown with pain together with the russian people: with the parents and brother of navalny, with the daughter of nemtsov, with the daughter of anastasia shevchenko, who has been locked up for months without any reason. the only reason is that they dared to dream. they dared to dream about freedom – something which is absolutely natural to us – and yet they are branded as foreign agents, they are called undesirable organisations, and they are dehumanised on the propaganda tv. anyone who claims that europe doesn’t care about russia, listen to these words. we want a strategic partnership with russia, but we want this strategy to be a strategy towards democracy and towards civil rights, a strategy for people and not for corrupt russian elites, and not for a gas project to undermine our neighbours, not for a nuclear plant in hungary, and not a strategy on how to harbour the assets of corrupt individuals in the european union. until this strategy exists, we need truth. we need truth about the poisoning. for that, we wrote to mr borrell and the german presidency and called for an international investigation. we know the truth about the assets of corrupt individuals in europe. for this we can use the list drawn up by navalny’s organisation itself in order to go for them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. according to the federal government, alexei navalny was given the novichok nerve agent without question. apparently independent, but still handpicked laboratories in sweden and france have confirmed this bundeswehr finding. navalny's russian doctors, however, found no evidence of poisoning. the vote of the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons is still pending. it is indisputable that since the 1990s, at least 20 states and organized criminals have obtained possession of the poison. so what do we know? poisoning seems possible, but it's not proven beyond a reasonable doubt. poisoned, then apparently in siberia. the perpetrator remains unclear, but some have motives. we know little more than almost nothing, and we debate with vigor, but arguably prematurely and almost without facts.
dear colleagues, i think we shouldn’t wait any longer. i was told that the council is on its way so maybe the commissioner could prepare to take over first.
the meeting is resumed. the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on covid-19: eu-wide coordination of medical assessments and risk ratings and the implications for the schengen area and the internal market. i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of views on any of the debates in this session and that no blue cards will be accepted. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i have to say, madam president, in the spring, i felt that europe was tearing us apart. the german government has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism. this must not happen again, ladies and gentlemen, because europe without frontiers is one of the greatest achievements. but right now, we're seeing a patchwork of travel warnings and border measures. i do not feel that the commission and the member states have learned anything from the spring. instead of this chaos, we need a coordinated health and travel warning. only by acting together can we contain this virus. the commission has now finally put forward a proposal for coordinated border management in the schengen area. but a lot of precious time has been lost in the summer. the council has therefore now to implement this proposal swiftly and the member states must apply it. one thing is still very important to me personally, because i am also affected by it. whether at external borders or within the eu: the free movement of unmarried couples of different nationalities must also be respected, because love is not tourism.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 september 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission has already done so. 429 that's not the number of children that should be taken from moria first. it is 429 days since you first spoke in this house. 429 days waiting for the european commission to finally address one of the biggest issues on which people are waiting for a european solution. i had almost thought that you were not going to address this subject at all, let alone some of the key points on migration and asylum policy. you want humanity and solidarity, sea rescue - you have the full support of renew. they want to improve the integration of recognised asylum seekers full support. the return of those who are not eligible for asylum agreed. but what you've presented today is missing an important building block. mrs von der leyen, if there is no concept of how we can organise the labour market migration we need in some member states in a european way, people will continue to get into boats to cross the mediterranean. there will continue to be overcrowded warehouses at the eu's external borders. and that is unacceptable. if you want to organise migration holistically, then you have to think about migration into the labour market. the renew group has put forward a proposal for a european talent pool with immigration criteria modelled on those of canada. pick this up, please, don't stop halfway.
in writing. last wednesday, ursula von der leyen (vdl) delivered her first visionary speech on the state of the union to the eu parliament. von der leyen already sees herself as a head of state, but the eu is not a state. she wants to change that. and how does vdl intend to help the genie out of the bottle? by more national sovereignty surrender, more spending, more climate policy and, of course, more migration. the eu needs a common health and social policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. it goes without saying that the eu does not contribute even 10% to global co2 emissions. the eu also wants to protect the rule of law. that means taking measures against poland and hungary and moralizing the powers of china and russia. and finally, a commitment to migration. migration has always existed in europe, it has defined us and shaped our culture. migration is enriching us. but not a word about the cultural and financial costs. the eu will also take even tougher action against so-called hate speech. the eu will develop the vdl into an 'anti-racism union'. ursula vdl's speech reads like the visionary moral sermon of a late high priestess. if you're having these visions, you should see a doctor.
in writing. i welcome the first state of the union address by the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen. but from a balanced and constructive approach to results, the distance is long. to move forward, the european project needs to evolve, adding new competences in health and education. the european parliament has high expectations for the future of europe and it is time for the european executive to deliver on its promises. there were four main points in the speech: - supporting my initiative to create the european emergency medical corps based on the positive example of romanian doctors;- introducing the european minimum wage actively supported by the romanian left and the petition signed by over 20,000 people; - references to decent work, including for seasonal workers; - the need for a balanced digital transformation that focuses on innovation, accessibility and infrastructure. to grow, the eu needs to take on ambitious projects in the fields of digitalisation, education and training, and environmental protection. but for any initiative, we must ensure that these transformations leave no one behind and above all that we are united in our internal and external action. europe must provide solutions for sustainable and equitable development at european level.
in writing. the pandemic, and the european union's response to its economic consequences, represents a historic opportunity to restore hope and enthusiasm to our citizens. that is why we need a courageous response based on adequate budgetary means and through new resources. the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. as socialists, we stress the need for a european strategy against poverty, including the child guarantee, a framework directive on the minimum wage and a decision on own resources and european taxation, to prevent the burden of tax revenue from falling on the income of workers. we are alarmed by the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states, where judicial independence and the protection of human rights are in danger. that is why we have asked the council to adopt a formal decision immediately to negotiate a european rule of law mechanism.
in writing. the pandemic, and the european union's response to its economic consequences, represents a historic opportunity to restore hope and enthusiasm to our citizens. that is why we need a courageous response based on adequate budgetary means and through new resources. the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. as socialists, we stress the need for a european strategy against poverty, including the child guarantee, a framework directive on the minimum wage and a decision on own resources and european taxation, to prevent the burden of tax revenue from falling on the income of workers. we are alarmed by the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states, where judicial independence and the protection of human rights are in danger. that is why we have asked the council to adopt a formal decision immediately to negotiate a european rule of law mechanism.
in writing. – in her first state of the union speech to the european parliament, ms von der leyen faced the problem of having her declaration of vision and purpose dominated by the coronavirus pandemic. she could hardly ignore it, and sought to find the right balance between firefighting and articulating a long—term mission. to a certain extent, the commission president achieved this. her proposals to bolster the public health component of the eu’s profile were constructive and down to earth. on the other hand, there was little new where the main horizons of eu policy (especially the green deal) are concerned, though affirming them again as she intelligently did makes sense. however, the commitment expressed to make qmv operational in more areas of eu activity actually underlines a basic aspect of the state of the union today that she failed to address: the locus of decision—making within the institutions has shifted again towards the council. both the commission and the parliament make bold proposals, then go into wait—and—see mode while member states palaver about the issues. regarding this, the president did not seem to have anything better than a band—aid solution, when what is needed is an institutional revamp that addresses adequately the political and social realities.
in writing. i support the position of our commission president. coronavirus, climate change, digitalisation or migration only together will we overcome the current crises and challenges and make europe fit for the future. it is right to see the nextgenerationeu european reconstruction fund as an opportunity now. the increase in the co2 reduction target to at least 55% by 2030 is very ambitious. now we must see how this objective is to be achieved. i think technology neutrality is a big part of that. and we must not overtax our small and mediumsized enterprises.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to follow suit with my colleague and i would like request a referral back to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for entering into interinstitutional negotiations. i’m very glad that the amendments have been carried. i hope that the final vote will carry too, as this is a very important topic if we look at the co2 emissions from maritime transport.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children cannot be mentioned often enough. the victims are young, helpless. many crimes committed against the souls of children often go undetected because families live in a cartel of silence. in many countries of the world, child abuse is a common occurrence. the international children's charity world vision warns that many families are at risk of poverty as a result of the covid-19 lockdown, and estimates that up to four million girls worldwide are sold as child brides - often by their own parents - to husbands who, under the guise of the religion of peace, indulge in their sick pedophilia. the problem of child marriage exists mostly in african and arab countries. and from these countries, illegal migrants are pouring in, and with them, child marriage is being imported into europe. with these flows of illegal migrants, the legalized rape of girls into europe is declared as marriage. in an article yesterday, the world lamented that the instrument for the annulment of child marriages contracted abroad is hardly used in germany, if not almost never, and made the shocking observation that even in germany a child marriage is contracted every weekend. but child marriage should not only be denounced in sunday speeches and halfheartedly ostracized in the context of lip service, but resolutely opposed. ladies and gentlemen, child marriage is not in europe. but why wander off when the bad is so near? with a few clicks of the mouse, the internet provides horrific images and videos of children being sexually abused, their bodies violated ... (the president withdraws the speaker from the floor.)
mr president, commissioner, you have said it yourself: in recent years the number of complaints of sexual abuse against children has increased dramatically. the numbers are chilling: in 2019 alone, almost 17 million complaints of sexual abuse were filed and more than 70 million images and videos of child pornography were intercepted. behind these images, there is a crime. real abuse that cuts the lives of the victims and leaves deep internal scars. unfortunately, the current pandemic has contributed to further exacerbating the problem. i therefore thank you, madam commissioner, for your commitment to defending the rights of children from the beginning of your mandate and, in particular, for putting the spotlight on a serious crime that is not talked about enough and for developing a genuine european policy to eradicate the sexual abuse and exploitation of children. that is why i welcome the presentation of this strategy and its proposal to include a temporary derogation from certain provisions of the eprivacy directive to ensure that companies can continue to voluntarily detect child sexual abuse online. but we must go further and be more ambitious, replacing the current directive with a regulation to solve the problems of transposition and develop clear standards for preventing and prosecuting these crimes. it also makes it a legal imperative for the detection of child sexual abuse content and its immediate reporting to public authorities by the main online service providers. and by setting up a european centre to combat and prevent child sexual abuse and supporting the role of ngos, as we have been calling for from the parliament's intergroup on the rights of children. finally, further work is needed on prevention. we must continue to educate, not only children, but also their parents and guardians, as well as all adults working with them, about the dangers of the virtual world, through educational and awareness-raising initiatives. let us act together to protect our boys and girls.
mr president, mrs johansson, ladies and gentlemen, it is still incredible that at this hour there are no reliable and real statistics on such a painful subject as the sexual abuse and exploitation of children by criminal networks. sometimes not quantifying a problem is denying it. and we know that pedophile networks and pedophilia rely on powerful, organized mafia networks, which also take advantage of the european union's complacency towards smugglers of all kinds, whether in the mediterranean or eastern europe, or the lack of borders, which gives them all latitude for this unnamed traffic. we heard your proposal - temporary - but we have to hunt down these mobsters. we must stop them, we must apply zero tolerance to these monsters, we must be ruthless, because a rapist or a child trafficker belongs in prison, because the punishment must give the true measure of the crime committed: the application of life. life in prison, for real.
commissioner, mr president, i have to ask you to stop. thank you for your initiative to protect children from pedophiles. the data is alarming. it is today that europe has become a global hotspot for child sexual abuse. almost 90% of the world's paedophile material is currently hosted on european servers, 71% of which are hosted in the netherlands. we do have to protect the children. the child is powerless, but we, as you said, have the power to protect it. and we can't let the pedophiles win against us. protecting children is of the utmost importance. i disagree with my predecessor that we have to choose between protecting personal data and protecting children. here, the choice is zero to one. child pornography must be punished severely. pedophiles must face the most severe punishment. but let's remember that it is in the european union that forced child marriages take place. every day children in these marriages are raped, abused and this is happening in the european union... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. some 10 to 20% of children in europe are sexually assaulted during their childhood. that's 10 to 20% too much. i welcome the european commission's strategy to combat child sexual abuse effectively, but we do not need any further studies and investigations. we're running out of time. we need effective enforcement of existing legislation in the member states. we need concrete action to end this inhumanity online and offline. concrete measures to not only detect but also prevent abuse. prevention, to enable the investigating authorities to effectively identify the perpetrators, to ensure that data protection does not equate to protection of the perpetrator, to prevent the spread of child pornography in its infancy and to ensure child-friendly criminal proceedings and appropriate victim support.
mr president, your communications are of course essential when it comes to protecting our children from sexual predators, but unfortunately they are silent on two major points. the first point is the fight against products which incite paedophilia. i have a recent example of netflix and its outrageous series called "mignonettes", which features ultra-sexualized pre-teens and shamefully trivializes child sexuality. the second example is the abject situation of sex dolls with the size and body of children which amazon or cdiscount, a subsidiary of the casino group, have been able to put on sale without raising a single word of protest, neither french nor european. secondly, the harmonisation of criminal laws within the european union, in particular on the age of sexual consent, which leads to the very definition of rape of a minor and differs completely from one european country to another. we must ensure that sexual abuse of a child in one country is punished as severely in every neighbouring country. this is an opportunity to show that europe is not just a structure built around market values. by acting on these two points, she would fight off predators and protect our children.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. statistically, there is one child in every classroom in germany who has experienced abuse. most of the files containing representations are hosted on dutch servers. in the last scandal alone, 500 terabytes of data was seized. the perpetrators and users are located all over europe. we need a stronger european response to this terrible and unfortunately very dynamic business model. the common centre, a stronger coordination of european efforts, is more necessary than ever. but we also need a robust mandate for europol in terms of cooperation with third parties, in terms of the possibility of conducting its own investigations, in terms of the use of ai and the latest technology, in terms of the seamless link with sis and the prüm network, but also in terms of the support and guidance for the investigators who have to deal with this horrific data on a daily basis. and finally, we need the data warehouse, and we need e-evidence. under no circumstances should data protection be used as an excuse to protect the perpetrator.
colleagues, we are here as members of parliament to help other people. we have other people to speak here. if we start that, we could have 450 million people speaking here! ms reintke, i am sorry, even though i understand what you want to say, please could you carry on in a different way – maybe reading it out or something?
so a point of order. i consider that you want this checked by the bureau, which we are going to do, and we are going to evaluate it.
before we continue, i just want to say that we obviously have had differences within interpreting, so i just want to remind everyone that this is not the place where we distribute hate speech or false accusations. we will carefully look at what just happened in the last speeches.
i have to say, madam president, human tragedies and human dramas have been taking place in moria not only since the fire, but this condition has been known for years. we know the problem and we have been silent - mostly silent. it is time to finally respond in a sustainable way, for europe to respond in a sustainable way, because the refugee policy will become even more rigorous. that is, we made the proposal at the time, that we said we need to build not refugee camps, but real refugee cities with infrastructure - that is, with schools, day care centers and hospitals - where people are received, where people are housed and cared for with dignity, and where then an asylum procedure can be carried out. and a positive asylum decision means bringing people into europe, and a negative asylum decision means people have to go back to their home countries to build those countries, because they are badly needed there. otherwise we will destabilize whole other regions, and this will make matters much worse. in the 21st century, we can build refugee cities in the shortest possible time, we are able to do so, and we should do so with the utmost urgency and with the utmost speed.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. moria is a disgrace to europe, and you have walked into this disaster with your eyes open. i think we all knew what could happen there. i think it is quite clear that people have a right to adequate housing, to access to medical care and to due process of law. but we must now look not only to the past, but also to the future. you have announced, mrs johansson, that you want to do a pilot project in lesbos together with the greek government and that a new camp is to be built. it is clear to me that such a facility in lesbos can only be temporary, can only be used to make an initial identification, to provide initial medical care, and then to distribute it, to distribute it to other countries in europe or to bring it to mainland greece. there must be no permanent facility on lesbos where people wait months or years for their asylum applications to be processed. we must not allow this to happen again, but we need a mechanism in which all the countries of europe can participate and show solidarity.
i have to say, madam president, our hypermoralists in this parliament are once again overwhelmed with demands to take in illegal immigrants as a reward for the arson. matches as a ticket to the eu what a fatal signal to the world! last year, 1,500 migrants were taken in from moria, and the next day, 1,500 new migrants were added from turkey. this is not sustainable, this is suicide. the green marquardt is more in moria than here in parliament. what does he stand for, what do you stand for? european citizens or illegal immigrants? who is thinking of the people of lesbos who have suffered for years, or of our european citizens who will be massively changed by this illegal migration? what follows now - what a coincidence - is another pact on migration, which is supposed to legalize illegal migration. we're gonna get overrun if we don't close the borders. and you, the supposed pro-europeans, with von der leyen at the head, will go down in history as the grave-diggers of the eu.
madam president, i say to the commissioner: moria showed it clearly, but we see the same across the continent. we deliberately create suffering and hardship in camps to dissuade people from coming. we try to match their suffering outside europe by creating suffering on european soil, traumatising people with hardly any shelter, sustenance and medication. i call this the policy of ‘deterrence by systematic suffering’. today, i plead to you for two things. first of all, please help all the people of moria to travel to communities across europe who are very happy to welcome them. and second, i plead to you to ensure that something like moria can never happen again. i repeat your call, ‘no more moria’, but i would also extend it. no more chios, no more samos, no more camps in general. don’t finance camps with eu money. close them all. (applause)
we are here in a place of conflict, of political, even of sharp conflict, we have very different opinions, and it is good and right that we express this here. i must admit that as a german i find the mention of the word "concentration camp" in this context highly borderline. but i don't have to decide that for myself. the bureau will do that. only now i think it's happened a few times. i would like to call for some historical awareness.
i have to say, madam president, we have heard a lot in recent days about the failure of the european union, but who has failed? there was a greek government under tsipras which has watched the situation deteriorate on the islands for too long. there are member states in the council who are taking a slimmed down or fundamentally opposed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. so what does this new geas entail? order and humanity intertwined. we are not fooling ourselves, and not only moria is an example of this, but in the chaos, it is difficult to maintain our humanitarian claim. that is why the decisions taken by mitsotakis in recent months have been right streamlining procedures, improving conditions on the islands, sending clear signals to turkey that we will not be blackmailed. let us support them where we can, with the means they need. what does europe need now? a chain of responsibility, starting with the countries of origin and transit, through effective border control, with a proper border procedure that everyone can rely on and that clearly distinguishes between need for protection and other motivation, a solidarity reception for those in need of protection and a consistent return of those who are not. i would ask the council to bring this to an end so that we no longer have to swing from emergency solution to emergency solution.
the debate is closed. i don’t know if you have the same problem with your interpretation as we have up here, but we are going to give the technicians the possibility to check that and hopefully to solve the problem. written declarations (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, pursuant to rule 144 of the rules of procedure. i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words at any of the debates of this sitting and that no blue cards will be accepted. the first debate on six motions for resolutions will be on the situation in the philippines, in particular the case of maria ressa (2020/2782 (rsp)) * * see minutes of the sitting.
madam president, i think we have the wrong order because i was actually the one negotiating these resolutions. there must be a mistake, but if the author gets the first word that should be me.
i have urbán crespo, bielan, neumann, fuglsang, wiseler-lima and guetta as the order, and it’s being signalled to me that is the correct order. i cannot check that. we have four points of order now. i don’t know if this really makes sense to discuss the order because there are very few people watching us live. you are going to put it on to your social media anyway, only yours, but ok, if it’s important, yes. who wants to reply? there have been so many.
i have a problem here, of course, because i wasn’t present. i completely understand what you are saying and appreciate that you tell us. the idea obviously is that the order is by the order of tabling, and then it is one speaker each per group. this is how it has been explained to me. for me this is a difficult situation, but i would say – and i take this on my shoulders now – if you all agree on this, if all the speakers that i just mentioned are fine with that, i think we should then proceed as the people concerned suggest. is everyone fine with that? ok. hannah neumann. but then you have to tell me who’s next!
author. – madam president, before the summer i spoke to maria ressa. she had just lost a made-up case, and i was so worried about the human rights situation in the philippines. i said maria, what can we do as the international community? she said ‘democracy dies in darkness so you should is shed light on the situation’. that is exactly why we are having this debate today and that’s why i’m happy to see you here ms urpilainen. but someone is missing, and that’s our new trade commissioner mr dombrovskis, because as the european union we don’t have that many tools to protect human rights and democracy, and maybe our trade policy is the strongest one. but duterte, the president of the philippines, who is encouraging his own services to kill tens of thousands of people, still enjoys eu trade privileges the under the gsp plus scheme that are supposedly linked to improvements in human rights. the situation is just getting worse, and that’s why i’m so happy that across all political parties in this resolution we call on the commission to start the procedure to revoke these privileges immediately and – to be frank – by immediately, we mean by monday.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to limit my brief remarks to the specific case of maria ressa. as far as i know, ms. ressa is currently out on bail awaiting sentencing. i also know that the judge in this case stated that mrs ressa was apparently unable to substantiate her claims and did not provide any evidence to support that. i have no doubt that there are contract killings and serious human rights violations in the philippines. the detention of mrs ressa is therefore, of course, totally exaggerated, as are the charges of slander. however, i think it's incumbent upon ms. ressa's legal team to present evidence to support her original story. and then we can talk about the repression or the suspension of freedom of speech and the harassment of the media by the government.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have the utmost respect for dr mukwege for his tireless fight against this brutal sexual violence against women and girls and its devastating consequences. i condemn in the strongest terms the cowardly attempts to intimidate and threaten to kill him, his family and his staff. but instead of expressing our horror, our concern, when do we finally act? since the ridiculous 2018 election, congo has slipped further and further into anarchy. rape, assault on women by militias are daily occurrences, five million refugees in camps and the perpetrators enjoy impunity. either because they are backed by high-ranking military officials or because they have nothing to fear from the judiciary, which is largely corrupt. but, and this is the real scandal, while systematic sexual violence against women, shootings on the spot continue to increase, the congolese government is still supported by the eu. this year alone, with 40 million euros in humanitarian aid. it is urgent that we as the eu review our attitude and our relationship with the congo so that people like dr mukwege no longer have to risk their lives to protect women from this brutal violence.
author. – madam president, the humanitarian situation in mozambique is dire. the people of mozambique are faced with one crisis after another, yet their plight is often neglected and ignored around the world. since 2017, mozambique has been in a constant state of insecurity and has suffered from terrorist attacks by the so—called al—shabaab and one climate—related natural disaster after the other. the mozambique authorities need the assistance of the international community to combat this danger. but military insurgencies are no excuse for human rights violations reprisals, and the government of mozambique has the responsibility to protect its citizens, not make them fear for their lives. we therefore call on mozambique to investigate without delay the alleged accusations of human rights abuses against their security forces and to respect the fundamentals of international law. we call on them to immediately cease the mauling of freedom of speech and to defend the universal value of freedom of speech. we also call on the international community to work closely with the local authorities to address the humanitarian crisis which follows these natural disasters and is only worsened by covid—19.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we in the european parliament have the opportunity to use our resolutions to draw attention to areas where it is not the first to fall when it comes to violations of fundamental human rights. this is the case in mozambique at the present time. mozambique, a country beset by climate disasters, unrest, military violence and a lack of democracy. we are not concerned out of arrogance, but we are really concerned about the people on the ground. when journalists and human rights activists are arbitrarily restricted in their freedom and subjected to violence, we call it and demand universal standards. when they disappear, when they report on corruption, human rights abuses and terrorism in the province of cabo delgado, we name it and we demand an explanation. the eu-africa strategy and the upcoming eu-au summit provide an opportunity to discuss security, sustainable development and concrete scenarios for international cooperation and societal progress as equal partners. let us not look at the african continent, mozambique, as a region in need, but as a partner. let's take this chance.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the reasons for the humanitarian disaster in mozambique are complex, but i would like to point out that the main reason for this disaster is the competition for the exploitation of oil and gas fields, especially offshore fields, and these are among the largest gas resources in the whole of africa. the problems are best illustrated by the case of andré hanekom, a south african citizen and owner of a small marina which was considered a strategic base for supplying the offshore industry. his reluctance to sell his property led to his abduction by mozambican security forces, false accusations of having ties to islamists, and his eventual death in police custody. the actions of so-called pmcs, private military companies, murders, the rise of islamism and many other unpleasant things are due to rampant corruption. all this is widespread in present-day mozambique, and yet at the heart of this anarchy are many foreign oil companies, including some from europe, who tolerate these killings in the name of security. the multinational companies must accept their responsibility to stop the killing in mozambique.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. normally, i would be asking at this point on behalf of the id group for a postponement of the vote on the climate bill. but due to the coronavirus, spontaneous voting is not possible at the moment. i therefore have only one complaint at the moment, namely that the vote on the european climate law has been postponed until tomorrow, and i would ask that this be noted in the minutes. the reason is that despite obvious legal deficiencies, the relevant envi committee voted on the amendments to the climate law on 10 september. my written and oral objections to this were ignored by the chairman of the committee. this is a flagrant breach of rule 180 (6) of the rules of procedure, the purpose of which is to protect minorities in this house and multilingualism. the legal opinion requested by the id group from the legal service of the house is not yet available. however, the vote on the climate law was put on the agenda by the conference of presidents, despite being informed of the events. i would like to put on record that i consider this to be a clear breach of our rules of procedure. the arbitrariness with which the rules are being circumvented in this house is shocking.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, 80% of europeans think that the rule of law has great importance and that it should be enforced in the european union. the european parliament has being calling for such monitoring for a long time now. already in 2016 we delivered a report on that matter and since then the situation in the member states has not become any better. now we have the report of the commission – thank you very much for it. we still believe that our report – thank you to michal šimečka and the other shadows – goes further, especially in scope but also concerning independent experts and an automatic reaction to the breaches. still, we are happy that this report is here and we are also happy with the way it has been presented, using very clear language. it is good because now we can compare, and as for the argument of ‘well, here we do the same as this country and that country’, we can now see the bigger picture. and you have to look at all of it. as for the key questions – ‘do you, as a government, want to be controlled?’ ‘do you believe that criticism is something positive that brings you further in democracy?’ – i am deeply convinced that we can compromise on everything – on posts, on persons, on money, on budget, on everything – but we can never compromise on our core values. we have to be very clear on this. we have the values in the treaty. we have the european court of justice that rules on it and there we are not willing to compromise on anything. (applause)
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission wants to link the disbursement of funds to the rule of law and democracy. this is a good idea in principle, if democracy and the rule of law are to be well-maintained in the eu. but unfortunately, that is not the case. on the contrary, we have seen for years that the demand for the rule of law is used exclusively as an instrument, namely when it is appropriate. a few examples: in germany, judges of the constitutional court are appointed by politicians. it's all right. in poland it's a scandal. the brutal attacks by police forces on yellow vests in france are not even mentioned in the rule of law report. turkey has been an islamist dictatorship for years. the eu's response was nothing. we are still negotiating with turkey for membership and we are still paying billions to turkey. africa, for example, is hardly one of the countries that meet our rule of law requirements. but it is with africa that the eu is now seeking to forge a new partnership, one that will make rich, corrupt regimes even richer. take palestine, which, as we know, is also one of the most corrupt regimes in the world. the eu is doing nothing but keeping silent. like so much in the eu, the rule of law mechanism is a lie. it's not about the rule of law. it's about blackmailing other countries. countries like poland, which are turning against the nonsense of gender ideology, or countries like hungary, which do not want migration from criminals and social marauders. so the rule of law mechanism is a lie, and anyone in their right mind will not agree with it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. last week the commission presented a report on the rule of law, thank you very much. article 7 procedures have been going downhill for months; i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. why would you do that? it is simply time for consolidation. it is not possible that all the institutions should be in disagreement in such an important field. that is why we are calling in our report for coordinated monitoring by all three institutions. it's time for more independence and credibility. the only way to make an honest assessment is to involve experts actively. we therefore call for a panel of experts to accompany this report. it is time for more genuine political ambition. the commission's report is a step in the right direction and not a lie, mr fest. but let us be honest: did we send the commissioners to the race last year and to the commission to do academic inventories and think tanks? i'm not going to. only if parliament is actually involved will this report become a real, effective story. and it's time to look at the big picture. this includes fundamental rights and anti-discrimination as stated in article 2, and we are calling for this. we were elected to do this, and we're gonna do it. we shall vote tomorrow.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. freedom of the press is being curtailed. minorities who are disadvantaged. money that's going into corrupt hands. all this is happening in europe now, and it must be stopped now, because it is even partly financed by the eu, because we are partly playing into the hands of these autocrats with the money. this has to stop now. and if we look at what the council has now put on the table - with all due respect, mr roth, minister of state - it is no longer a rule of law mechanism. this is no longer a general attack on the rule of law, but only a very specific breach. this is not really a rule of law mechanism, it is a pseudo-rule of law mechanism. and this pseudo-rule of law mechanism, which also runs the risk of never being triggered, because you have removed the reverse qualified majority. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply, and i would like to thank you for your reply. but i am very clear here - and i think many colleagues are - that we are not going to simply change our position and ignore the council's position. i can promise you that. they have gone a little too far towards orbán, and you can see what orbán is doing now. he's going one step further. we should have learned that lesson by now. he's playing us, and now he's saying he's gonna block the budget and the reconstruction fund. so he says that he certainly doesn't want to take any more money now because he might get less money or money withheld later through the rule of law mechanism. it is like shooting yourself in the knee as a precaution because of the fear of being attacked. and this is the game we must uncover; it's a card game, and we need to expose this bluff. we must remain firm as a european parliament and we will remain firm as a european parliament. that is a red line for this european parliament. we will no longer allow any discount on the rule of law.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. the proposal you have made on the rule of law in the eu raises the bar so high that we all know that in practice it will never lead to a sanction. if there is no longer an independent media in a member state, as is already the case in hungary, then sanctions should not be imposed. if in a member state the government is throwing out all its unpleasant judges, as the polish government likes to imagine, then the commission would first have to prove where it is costing the eu taxpayers money before we can impose sanctions. this has nothing to do with protecting the rule of law. this is not a compromise between what the european parliament decided here a year and a half ago and your position in the council. what you have presented is another bow to the dictator in budapest. this has to stop! we need this working, really working, rule of law mechanism in case of emergency against hungary and poland. the bluff that they now want to sabotage all the corona aid for the whole european union will be blown to bits when you finally join us in the european parliament in fighting for the rule of law in europe in the european council.
madam president, mr roth, minister of state, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank you for the kind words you have found, but i think you yourself know that the proposal you have to defend here on behalf of the council is completely inadequate to achieve this objective. i would also like to say to my colleagues on the right of the house that this is not a matter of imposing on the countries of europe values which are alien to them. i find it fascinating how you drop the mask here and say that the rule of law, freedom of the press and democracy are foreign values. these are all values to which our countries all explicitly committed themselves when they joined, because that is what they wanted. it is in countries where people have suffered under dictatorships that these values, these fundamental rights, these clearly written fundamental rights, and the separation of powers are so important. it is not a question of punishing countries, but the european union cannot use its resources to support authoritarian regimes. that's exactly what's going to happen: that those in power will get richer, that freedoms will be further restricted. we must say very clearly here, at a time when we are distributing another 750 billion in addition to the multiannual financial framework: this is not the way to go! we need the rule of law mechanism now. this is also something that the majority of european citizens are very loudly demanding, and we must defend it here. they're the reason we're here.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned. before we continue the debate, i shall open today's voting. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda adopted today. the vote will take place from 7.15 to 8.30 p.m. the same voting procedure as in previous sessions shall apply. all votes are by roll call and members can verify their votes and the results of the votes by reference to the document published on the plenary website. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. exceptionally, explanations of vote may not exceed 400 words. i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote now until 8.30 p.m. the results of the vote will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m.
we now continue our debate on the statements by the council and the commission on rule of law conditionality in the framework of the mff 2021-2027 and of next generation eu (2020/2797(rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i actually went to the protests in sofia last week. i had the opportunity to speak to a lot of people on the ground. i heard that they are fed up with the corruption in bulgaria. i heard that the justice system is captured, and i heard that media freedom is being eroded at an alarming pace. so i can understand that bulgarians are fed up with the speed of reform. i can understand that they say eu money, in a lot of cases, is actually making things worse, because systematically the eu funds that we give are being stolen by a corrupt elite. they are being used to cement their power or to buy up the remaining independent media. so what are we doing as the european union? well, what bulgarians see is that we are publishing another report on the rule of law. they see that donald tusk is fist-bumping borisov, and a prime minister that has recently called protestors ‘gamblers and smugglers’. but what bulgarians unfortunately so far are not seeing is decisive action from the european union. the commission is contemplating stopping the cvm; the european council is dismantling the rule-of-law mechanism. so when i asked the bulgarians on the ground what we should do as the european union, the reply was unanimous: everyone i met was telling me, ‘please stop the eu funds, because that money is not feeding hungry children. if you stop the money, you are basically taking away the caviar from corrupt oligarchs.’ so i think that is right, that is what we should do. and the eu should be with those citizens who are fighting corruption and fighting for democracy in bulgaria.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for months now, people have been taking to the streets in bulgaria. they are expressing their anger at corruption, the lack of separation of powers and the lack of freedom of the press in the country. the message of our debate today and of the resolution we are voting on this week should therefore be: we stand with civil society in bulgaria and support their legitimate demands for justice, transparency, the rule of law and democracy. just a few excerpts from the commission's annual rule of law monitoring report, released last week: the fight against corruption in the country, especially in cases involving high-ranking politicians, has a lot of room to grow. according to eurobarometer, 80% of the population consider corruption to be widespread in their country. systemic problems in the judiciary identified by the european court of human rights and the venice commission remain unresolved. under the guise of independence, a post has been created of the attorney general , which has a tremendous amount of power. symptomatically, the attorney general has called himself an instrument in the hands of god and he acts as such. there is a lack of effective accountability mechanisms. the lack of transparency in the ownership of the bulgarian media is also a cause for concern. the report also found evidence of close links between the media and political leaders. in addition, many journalists will describe political interference in the media as widespread in bulgaria. we also know of cases where journalists have been specifically threatened. the commission should use all the instruments at its disposal to enter into this dialogue and to demand respect for the fundamental european values. i would like to say this to my esteemed colleagues in the epp, because my predecessor had so much extra time: whenever it comes to governments that do not belong to your party family, you are incredibly moralising. then there's no more talk of respecting elections. you're asking for resignations. whenever it comes to your own governments, it sounds very different. don't make the same mistake you made before. we are also here because you have been watching for ten years in hungary and still have not drawn any conclusions. do not make the same mistake with bulgaria.
in writing. parliament criticises the lack of rule of law and fundamental rights in bulgaria and expresses concern that corruption has spread to the highest levels of government. in contrast, parliament has recently supported the commission's recommendation to abolish the cooperation and verification procedure for bulgaria, the purpose of which was to verify the rule of law and fundamental rights and thus prevent the situation which has now arisen. after the collapse of communism, a corrupt oligarchic elite took power in bulgaria. eu membership has only led to more corruption. from the outset, much of the eu's money from the various structural funds has been pouring into the pockets of corrupt officials among the political and economic elite. all the warnings on the eve of accession were ignored. as a result, tens of thousands of bulgarians have left their country to escape corruption and poverty. for example, bulgarian nurses work throughout europe, but the hospitals in bulgaria are underfunded and understaffed. the european parliament has lost the right to get upset. it has accepted the disastrous development of bulgaria's eyes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. every company acts in a way that maximizes its profit. this is of course also true of job vacancies. so if a woman is more suitable for a job than a man, it is in the best interests of the company to hire that woman and not the man. but the commission does not rely on it. instead, the commission is now harassing the member states with its highly embarrassing politically correct support for women's quotas. but why is the demand limited to the quota of women in management positions? why don't we demand quotas for construction workers, truck drivers, or canal workers? it's no wonder that more and more companies are moving to developing and emerging markets, where they can make business-wise decisions free of ideological nonsense. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if men and women are equally unemployed, they can establish their gender parity in the area of transfer benefits. there is certainly something to be found in the eu unemployment insurance scheme. no, it remains that women's quotas are state-sanctioned benevolent sexism. a government-imposed quota of women reflects what women's movements of the past have rightly fought against - namely, the image of women as being apparently too weak to succeed in the workplace and therefore in need of the support of the state power. you're not helping women by demanding quotas. on the contrary, it is a shameful expression of your pathetic, condescending, arrogant and patronizing attitude towards women. the chauvinists and macho men of this world are cracking the champagne corks. the eu commission, led by a woman, officially confirms the chauvinistic image of women na bravo!
i shall begin by announcing the results of yesterday's voting. the results of the vote on monday 5 october are as follows: votes on requests for urgent procedure (article 163 of the ec treaty): authorising france to conclude an international agreement on the channel tunnel: adopted; organic production: date of entry into force and certain other data: adopted; the commission has adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions. the commission proposes that the council adopt a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. commission proposal: the taxation of aiem in the canary islands: adopted; commission proposal: extension of the period of application of the special tax on the 'octroi de mer' in the french outermost regions: adopted; draft amending budget no 7/2020: updating of revenue (own resources): adopted. i now turn to mr jörgen warborn, who has asked to speak on his report on the implementation of the common commercial policy annual report 2018 before today's first round of voting. mr warborn has the floor for two minutes.
before we continue the debate, i shall open the first round of votes today. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the vote will take place at 10.30 a.m. with a delay until 11.45 a.m. i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote until 11.45. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 2.15 p.m.
we now continue our joint debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the extraordinary european council meeting of 1 and 2 october 2020 (2020/2787(rsp)) and the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 15 and 16 october 2020 (2020/2788(rsp)).
madam president, i’m very happy that the council also focused on the digital sector, which is absolutely crucial if we want to live in freedom and democracy in the future, because today, this way of living is involuntarily threatened by the business model of a few global tech companies. and what is that business model? it’s collecting huge amounts of data on citizens, creating detailed profiles and selling them to advertisers, and this has side effects. it promotes disinformation. it promotes hate in our society. it distorts competition and it reduces the revenue of our press. these enormous amounts of data, as well as the staggering profits, don’t allow for a level playing field for our european industry and threaten democracies globally. but the good news is that we now have the chance to change this with the new competition framework, with the digital services act. we can have a new start in europe because, in europe, what we want are digital technologies to implement the european green deals and make the lives of european citizens better.
i have to say, madam president, the mountain gave birth to a mouse. the council meeting can be summed up in this way with regard to turkey. the eu's relations with turkey are being redefined, it was said. but then germany prevailed. sanctions against belarus friendship with erdoğan. and this in a week where dozens of opposition and hdp members were arrested. erdoğan has written a letter to the council listing his demands. he offered to move moria to turkey de facto. the council has accepted it with gratitude. the eu is buying time but giving erdogan a free pass. he has not only used islamists against the kurds in syria, but also allegedly in libya and currently in nagorno-karabakh. the truth is that they always like to talk about the eu's union of values. but who's going to believe you now? the european union has not yet been able to achieve the objectives it set itself.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the european union must take more responsibility for its forests. our forests can play a significant role in the fight against the climate crisis, we know that, but they are also currently victims of climate change. the eu must therefore take greater responsibility for the rebuilding of our forests. we urgently need reforestation to make forests more resilient and more biodiverse, and to better store water. the forestry of the future must be thought through and through with the european green deal and the biodiversity strategy, because timber from species-rich forests that form deep, humus-rich soils have the best long-term carbon footprint imaginable. on the other hand, dry forests and plantations that are constantly hit by drought, storms and bark beetles have a miserable carbon footprint in the long run. and that's where conservation and forestry come together. this will require a major change in forestry practices in some places. but no sector is as allergic to the word 'change' as the forestry sector, and rightly so: trees and forests grow slowly, so we need to think through the changes together with the foresters. the eu must therefore also provide the sector and forest owners with a perspective a massive support for this change that is coming. the change must be considered together with an eu-wide strategy for timber and the bioeconomy, because the new woods, which are to be grown in mixed stocks, must also find buyers. wood is an excellent carbon sink -- we've heard that -- which is why we should also use this valuable raw material in durable products, in wood construction or in high-quality furniture. the industrial process and the burning of extra-forested areas, on the other hand, is a climate policy disaster. the bottom line is that the own-initiative report which is being put to the vote today does not go far enough in its responsibility for the forests of the future. i therefore appeal to the honourable members to read the alternative motion for a resolution contained in amendment no 2! i cannot imagine a europe without forests for myself, my children and the children of the future. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. our forests are places of recreation and recreation, habitats for plants and animals, cultural assets, wood producers and thus an important and indispensable source of income for our forestry workers. but our forests are also the most important resource we have in the fight against climate change. the new eu forest strategy must reflect this multi-functionality. it is to take account of all the potential that our forests offer. this means that ecological, social and economic factors must be balanced - protecting and benefiting. we need a proven sustainable forestry in europe. but that does not mean that we should leave the forest to its fate or chain ourselves to every tree. if you want climate-resilient forests, you have to allow sick trees to be replaced by new, locally adapted trees. we must not forget that behind every tree there are people who have been caring for their forest for generations, preserving it and passing on practical knowledge. all of them, through their work in and for the forest, provide enormous diversity. my appeal to the commission is that the positive functions of sustainable forest management must be communicated more intensively, because the low-carbon forest is fundamental and therefore the miracle weapon of our green future in europe. this must finally be made more visible in political action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. unfortunately, not everyone understands this: our forests are primarily habitats, carbon sinks, natural air-conditioning systems, which are already under enormous stress from climate change, and they need to be protected. this protection is ill-suited. today the european environment agency has published that even the forests protected under natura 2000 are in bad condition for over 80% of the time, because of the lack of protection plans, the lack of implementation of management plans and the lack of action against violations. instead of continuing to fuel the myth of climate-neutral biomass combustion - in the true sense of the word - as is sometimes done here, we should follow the science. it says: protect old forests, set stringent, verifiable criteria for truly sustainable forest management and fight illegal logging. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i would therefore ask you to vote in favour of the alternative proposal from the environment committee for a truly sustainable use of forests.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the forest is not only an important ally in the fight against the climate crisis, but also its victim. anyone who walks in the forest can see how bad it is: drought, storms, and parasites. only 15% of forest habitat is in good condition. unsurprisingly, this year's environment agency report on the state of nature concludes that the eu is so far failing to halt this loss. i am afraid that the report to be voted on today will not reverse this trend. it reduces our forests to an economic factor, and it turns the vague concept of sustainable forest management into a magic formula for just about everything. the report by the committee on the environment, which was tabled as an amendment, proposes a forestry strategy which brings the role of forests in the european economy into line with the green deal. we're making the climate-warning forest fit for the future, and that's our job.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european climate law: the commission says it is the centrepiece of a - now it is called quite shamelessly by the name - complete transformation not only of our economy but of our whole society. in future, no law should be passed without first considering whether it might not be in conflict with that particular climate law. the commission is also proposing to review existing regulations with retroactive effect and to amend them if necessary. this law is the mother of all laws: poisonous and creepy green dictatorship. instead of creating a stable legal framework for a thriving economy, a complacent, factually-free emergency-jammerelite is out-performing itself with 'ambitious' targets: 40, 55, or 60% greenhouse gas reduction, preferably a little more. whatever it costs. and that's a very literal interpretation of what i'm saying. last year, the commission's fine print said that a 40% reduction would mean an annual cost increase of eur 260 billion over the next 10 years. now it is said that an additional 350 billion euros a year are needed for this green dictate: 610 billion euros a year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i wonder if the green mps from the cdu/csu group in the epp group will care. as if there were no chemistry or physics, they talk about improving air quality by reducing greenhouse gases and they do not mention that the so-called co2-free mantle of renewable energy stinks, not only when it comes to the catastrophic mining conditions far away of lithium, cobalt, manganese and co. the emperor is naked, ladies and gentlemen, and no one is looking.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we only have one planet, one house, and it’s on fire – in portugal, in california, in siberia we are burning this planet. we must take bold steps, but the conservatives in the house are weighing economic costs against people’s lives. people’s lives, like the life of vlad petru. he’s a farmer from romania. he says there is no longer enough water for his cattle and sheep to drink. he should seek water higher in the mountains, but above 2 000 m there is only the sky. people’s lives like the life of sanna vanar. she is from the saami culture from sweden and the culture is based on the cultivation of reindeer, but the reindeer are on the verge of getting extinct due to the climate crisis. sanna says: ‘if we lose the reindeer, we lose the saami culture too.’ we are here in the european parliament; we are here to represent them and we can do something about their future. with our vote today, we can show that we listen to science. we can vote today to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees by reducing our toxic co2 emissions by 65%. dear colleagues, we are not voting on numbers here today. we are voting on the future of vlad petru, of sanna vanar and of many others lives. i will become a father in december. we are also voting today on the future of my children and on the future of our children. we are the first generation to suffer from the climate crisis, but we are also the last generation to stop it. so let’s start listening to science, let’s give hope to the younger generation, and let’s stop this climate crisis. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with the climate act, we have the great task of laying the foundation of the green deal. our proposal is a huge improvement on the commission's proposal with an eu greenhouse gas budget that clearly shows how much emissions the eu is allowed to emit in the coming years, an independent climate council that provides scientific guidance and advice. the question of how much more ambition we should have on the road to climate neutrality will then become a hot topic in this house. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available for the implementation of the programme are used to the full. for the first time, it mentions a net target which takes into account the positive climate performance of forests. if you subtract that, we're only at a weak 52%. but it's important to save today to avoid climate tipping points and climate damage tomorrow. according to climate science, that's a target of about 65 percent. in view of the circumstances, 60% is already a great political success, which will also strengthen our negotiating position later on. it is also possible if we stop playing the employment and climate game and start making the necessary changes. let me put it this way: 2050 always sounds so far away, but it's the time when my generation won't even be retired. so it's important now to get going and get the right tools in place, because we don't have time to waste.
madam president, you can see the stripes representing global warming on my mask and i must say to you, please fight every crisis. fight the corona crisis, but fight the climate crisis with as much enthusiasm. i will continue in german. frau präsidentin! ich will mich auf die methanemissionen konzentrieren, weil die so oft übersehen werden. auch die kommission rechnet mit einem veralteten wert für die treibhausgasintensität von methan. auf einen 20-jahres-zeitraum gerechnet, ist es mehr als 80 mal so wirksam wie co2. deshalb brauchen wir schnelle und wirksame maßnahmen zur reduktion dieser emissionen. wir warten auf die methanstrategie der kommission. nach allem, was man erfährt, möchte die kommission nur ein bisschen besser zählen als bisher, aber sie will die emissionen nicht wirksam reduzieren. das können wir uns in dieser klimakrise nicht leisten. im energiesektor wäre es ganz einfach: da brauchen wir regulierung, undichte pipelines stopfen, ventile austauschen, bohrlöcher verschließen, veraltetes equipment tauschen. aber wir müssen auch an die landwirtschaft gehen, und da zeigt sich ganz deutlich: wir müssen da raus aus der massentierhaltung, sonst kriegen wir die methanemissionen nicht in den griff.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in the current war over nagorno-karabakh, two principles are diametrically opposed: on the one hand, the principle of territorial integrity, and on the other, the principle of self-determination of peoples. the great failure of the international community is that after 28 years of negotiations it has not been able to resolve this fundamental conflict. worse, instead of confidence-building measures, the region was upgraded. both sides in the conflict - armenia and azerbaijan - were armed to the teeth, especially by russia and serbia. in this sense, there are basically only losers in the conflict: firstly the osce minsk group as negotiator, secondly the civilian population in armenia, nagorno-karabakh and of course in azerbaijan itself. the only group that seems to be benefiting from the current war is the international military observers, who are looking with great interest at nagorno-karabakh, where various high-tech weapons are being used for the first time in some cases. this new form of warfare - using armed drones and other precision weapons - is said to be just the beginning of a technologically advanced warfare. what can the eu do in a meaningful way? firstly, it must persuade france, russia and the united states to stop unilaterally siding with the armenians in the negotiations. secondly, it must ensure that nato's partner turkey does not continue to add fuel to the fire. thirdly, it must ensure that humanitarian aid is provided to civilian victims of the war. i think we should not be naive but see our role in engaging our partners in a realistic, clear and targeted way.
mr president, mr high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to commend the friends of azerbaijan for their extremely professional media and lobbying campaign. any criticism of azerbaijan's actions immediately triggers an avalanche of social media posts and personal insults. the azerbaijani side is obviously very well organized here. the azerbaijani approach should not surprise us. for weeks now, increasingly bellicose voices have been heard from baku, with constant threats against nagorno-karabakh and armenia. in august, azerbaijan held joint military exercises with turkey, during which turkey assured its government of its support for an azerbaijani invasion of nagorno-karabakh. cluster bombs are already reportedly in use, and credible reports say that ankara has sent syrian militias to support the azerbaijani army. turkey is thus acting in exactly the same way as libya: it is bringing further instability and even more violence to a region already facing unrest. i am particularly concerned about the turkish strategy of using syrian mercenaries. if the turkish strategy in libya is repeated here, these mercenaries will not be paid and will eventually be left to fend for themselves. the risk posed by disgruntled extremists is unthinkable. and this risk is not just for armenia, it is for all of us.
i have to say, madam president, belarus, azerbaijan, armenia - these images of violence and conflict reach us daily, and we rightly rise to protest loudly against them. but we should also stand up for those who suffer outside the world public - without politics, without press, without participation. there is also a war in iran, a quiet, hard war waged by the regime against its own people, against those who express their opinions, against the youth and especially against women. this war against your own people is being waged on the backs of women. one of them, giti purfasel and her name is unjustly almost unknown , is locked up, threatened, harassed. for her, as for our sakharov prize winner nasrin sotudeh, the struggle for women and human rights is becoming a disaster. she is just the latest example of the fate of women in iran who are already deprived of their freedom for a badly fitting headscarf. these women don't have the privilege of being in the media every day. these women have no lawyers; these women must be protected by our attention. specifically, we need ambassadors to visit giti purfasel and the other political prisoners in prison until they are finally released. but not only that. let us finally follow the call for a geopolitical europe and draw an unmistakable line against dictatorial regimes! enough is enough! we need less cooperation, less understanding of the iranian regime, and instead more direct support for iranian women, for iranian civil society, so that heroines like giti purfasel can continue to defend european values beyond our borders.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the high representative's determination to uphold the vienna nuclear agreement on iran's nuclear programme despite overwhelming evidence that it is a weak initiative is admirable. i understand, of course, the desire to stop nuclear proliferation and the e3's concern to preserve the integrity of the united nations. but i think we have to face the reality: iran is not to be trusted. the mullahs are violently oppressing their own people, funding terrorists around the world, destabilizing their neighbors, and are responsible for the mass killing of civilians in yemen. they execute political opponents and imprison innocent dual nationals for supposed political gain. the iranian revolutionary guard is one of the biggest drug gangs in the world. the un security council resolution 2231 allows iran to continue to export fear of terrorism and instability. it allows the mullahs, who have no democratic legitimacy, to continue to terrorize the iranian people.
madam president, high representative borrell, i am one of the many and many members of the european parliament who appreciate your often ungrateful efforts to give the european union's foreign policy autonomy, character and commitment, whether in the conflict between armenia and azerbaijan, two members of the council of europe at war, supported by so many other council of europe countries, whether in the case of venezuela, or also in this case, in iran, by reminding the united states that, having left the agreement, they are no longer members of the joint comprehensive plan of action and therefore are not covered by un resolution 2231 the unilateral imposition of sanctions, which they also tried to get the un security council to endorse, and failed in their attempt. but at the same time i am among those who are calling on the european union to do all it can to demand that iran respect human rights, that it cease its brutal repression of dissent, its discrimination against entire categories of people, beginning with women, and its systematic and frequent application of the death penalty.
madam president, the united states has unilaterally decided to re-impose sanctions on iran, with the us secretary of state hastening to announce measures against those who violate sanctions, that is, by forcing their policies on us. the mention of these measures is reminiscent of the exorbitant fine of €8 billion imposed by the us treasury department on bnp paribas in 2015. what had the commission done at the time to protect european companies subject to these fines? i didn't say anything. last thursday at the european council you discussed the building of european strategic autonomy. is not this autonomy primarily based on the protection of our companies against foreign sanctions and interventionism? what does the commission intend to do about this and is it not high time for it to flex its muscles and finally protect european companies from american interference? for example, setting up ecological barriers at borders targeting mainly us products or simply banning certain companies from entering the european market, as trump has been able to do with tiktok.
madam president, we have talked for nearly an hour now about the threats to the jcpoa, about global power dynamics, about national repression. while all of this is true and very frustrating, there is also hope in iran. there were massive protests of young people last year in the streets, taking their claims to the streets. just a few weeks ago, women of iran have started a ‘me too’ movement. there is even a ‘fight for the future’ group in the country. young people in iran are not living on a different planet. they are part of global movements, and they challenge the regime. yes, they have to face crackdowns, oppression, repression, torture. they are in prison, some of them are executed. but they are coming back again, and again, and again. and the old ones who have gone through this for decades and decades have not stopped. as long as people in iran still have the courage to face this regime, it is our duty to support their cause and protect them. and while it is so important that the eu engages in regional dynamics, as reinhard bütikofer said, we can only do so if we also manage to engage the people that suffer under the various regimes in the region.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. recently, wrestler navid afkari was executed without due process. what happened to our loud protest? the human rights lawyer nasrin sotoudeh, winner of the sakharov prize, is currently in serious danger; her condition is alarming. she was sentenced to 33 years in prison and 148 lashes in 2019 for defending two women who protested against the current mandatory headscarf. the headscarf which is often disparaged by the left and the greens in europe as a symbol of emancipation. she won't survive the lash. iran is still being courted not to jeopardize the nuclear deal. the deal was a foggy candle from the start, allowing the iranians to continue building their nuclear bombs under the applause of the west. let us take our so-called, much-quoted values seriously and end the cuddle course with iran! let's show them the red card!
i have to say, madam president, we are certainly in broad agreement on the fundamental character of the iranian regime, and everything that has been said here about criticism of the internal situation in the country is reprehensible. the execution of navid afkari, the imprisonment of nasrin sotoudeh and the outlawing of the baha'i faith as a persecuted religious community are examples of this. the criticism of the foreign policy behaviour - all of which has been listed here - is also justified. but: we have agreed for many years globally that the worst thing would be if iran got a nuclear bomb, and that was the right thing to prevent and is the right thing to prevent, and the jcpoa must therefore be maintained. we have to try and hopefully get a new american administration, biden, to join it again, because we have seen the effects of the radicalization in iran. if we had had the opposite result - with the implementation of the agreement, with the lifting of economic sanctions and with an opportunity for the people there to develop - then they would have had more power to turn against the regime, and i agree with hannah neumann. i have great confidence in the young people, in all the people who are really fed up with this regime. one day the iranians will overcome this regime, and if we have a policy that doesn't take away their confidence until then, that's the right policy, and that includes the fact that we should continue the jcpoa.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, the human rights situation in iran has deteriorated rapidly in the past year. the sanctions imposed by the united states have had a devastating impact on the country's economy, with serious consequences for the enjoyment of economic and social rights, creating a veritable internal bomb. the protests that erupted on 25 november last year were brutally suppressed by the authorities, who used unnecessary or excessive force and arbitrarily detained peaceful protesters. since then, the judiciary and security forces have continued to use approximate provisions of the penal code to arrest and prosecute activists, against the freedom of expression and peaceful assembly. the case of nasrin sotoudeh, who deserves our support and solidarity, is emblematic of this deterioration towards human rights defenders, lawyers and dissidents. we need instruments, including sanctions, to punish those responsible for any violation of human rights, wherever they may be! but without diplomacy, without negotiation, without a european defence of the commitments mutually assumed in the nuclear agreement, there will be no table to improve and negotiate this unacceptable state of human rights. the united states has withdrawn from multilateralism: we are defending it concretely now.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, it has been a busy morning. we have been here for four hours, and we are reaching the end of this intense debate about three very important issues. many things have been said, and i agree with many of them. i could say exactly what mr gahler said at the end: the worst thing would be if iran were to become nuclear. thanks to this deal, it’s not nuclear. others members have said the same thing; i cannot mention all of them. so to try to keep the jcpoa alive – although, as mr bütikofer has said, it is very weak because the withdrawal of the us is certainly something that jeopardises its existence and the continuity – to keep it working, even at a lower regime, is not contradictory with the importance that we have to give to the situation of human rights in iran. i know that this is something that all parliament is very concerned about and i can assure you that we will continue working in order to put our concerns, our rejection of the executions and detentions that have been mentioned here today before the iranian authorities. we will do that in collaboration with the german embassy in tehran, which is currently acting as our local representation since we don’t have a european delegation on the ground. and mr bütikofer is also right: we have to look further at whatever is going to happen in the us after the next elections. it is not sure that the jcpoa will survive. we have to look for a new agreement. is it possible? remember how difficult it was to reach this agreement, how many years of tough work were required to rebuild the agreement in order to adapt it to the new circumstances, and even enlarging it could be good, if possible. it will depend very much on the political landscape in january next year. in the meantime, about the arms embargo: i want to stress that we europeans will continue to put our arms embargo in place. our arms embargo, the comprehensive arms embargo of the european union – not the jcpoa arms embargo – will continue into 2023. but we cannot say that we fight to keep the jcpoa alive and, at the same time, to impose an arms embargo on the jcpoa itself – what is considered part of it – and ban. on that, we cannot share the position of the us as they didn’t share 13 members of the security council. all i know is we are trying to do our best in order to increase trade with iran. it is very difficult because the american sanctions are very powerful, but the iran deal is not just a nuclear deal. it is a dual task. it is a nuclear deal on the one side and an economic deal on the other, and one thing goes with the other. we cannot pretend that iran fulfils all its nuclear obligations and at the same time not get any kind of reward on the economic side. this is a delicate balance. let’s try to work on two things at the same time: the nuclear agreement and human rights. we will continue fighting to keep the nuclear agreement alive and working and at the same time we will continue working in order to make the iranian authorities aware that respect for human rights is a sine qua non for us to engage with them. and on both points i need the support of the european parliament and a realistic approach to one of the most important problems for our security, because without the jcpoa today iran would be a nuclear power and then we would be in a completely different scenario, in a completely different situation. i think that this achievement for european diplomacy, which took a lot of effort from javier solana until ms mogherini – a lot of people have been working on that – deserves to be preserved, deserves to be continued, deserves to be facilitating a non-nuclear iran, and it also gives us leverage to engage with iran on these other very important issues, such as human rights, which i know the members of this parliament are very attached to, as i am. you can count on the external action service to engage on this issue. the two of them can go in parallel; one things doesn’t prevent the other. thank you very much, members of the parliament, for your support and for this long and moving session. (applause)
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. – the economic and social situation in iran have deteriorated rapidly and the covid-19 pandemic is aggravating the situation. iran’s economy suffers from high inflation and is predicted to shrink by 10% this year. it should not be only in the eu’s security interest to maintain the jcpoa, but also in the interest of the people, as the agreement is also contributing to regional and global security. this is, i believe, of utmost importance. in parallel, the eu should work on how to keep arms embargo on the regime and should try to re-establish transatlantic unity on iran. fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and of assembly must always be respected. therefore, while maintaining the jcpoa, the eu and especially the hrvp should continue raising human rights concerns with the iranian authorities in bilateral and multilateral forums.
let me first congratulate executive vice—president valdis dombrovskis on his nomination by this house also to extend his responsibilities to trade policy. and i am confident that the house and you will have an excellent cooperation also in the future. so, congratulations.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you know i'm here representing the council and speaking for the council; i would like to make a few comments from the german government's point of view. i want to assure you once again that my government takes this fraud scandal very seriously. that is why we have now started an investigation. we are working on concrete reform proposals aimed at strengthening accounting enforcement and the effectiveness of our supervisors. we have also started parliamentary investigations in germany, which we are equally fully and actively supporting. parliamentary inquiries will also help to identify and implement the necessary reforms in the areas of accounting, auditing and supervision. it's in our mutual interest. let 's face it . the events surrounding the wirecard fraud scandal have cast a very bad light on our capital markets, the role of auditors, corporate governance and enforcement systems. it is therefore up to us all to restore much-needed confidence in our markets. we therefore share the concerns expressed by the european parliament. that is why the finance ministers have also started a debate on the adequacy of the audit rules and the enforcement system of the european union and also whether we need a stronger supervisory body at eu level to ensure the stability of our capital markets. we must learn the right lessons from this fraud scandal, and i am sure that in the context of the common market we can do this best together. the council, i can assure you again, ladies and gentlemen, will treat the wirecard issue as a priority. we intend to present ambitious council conclusions on strengthening the capital markets union before the end of our presidency, and this will also give us the opportunity to discuss this matter in the context of a wider debate on the capital markets union and to find a politically coordinated response to this serious fraud scandal. the answer to this fraud scandal cannot be simply to point the finger at the supervisory authorities or to give the european agencies more powers, more powers. there are other areas, ladies and gentlemen, which need to be addressed urgently and which need to ensure that a situation like this never happens again. we have to deal with the rules on auditing and the role of auditors in the capital markets. we also need to discuss conflicts of interest between the business lines, consultancy and auditing, and we also need to think about how we regulate the regulatory framework for certain service providers, and we need to ask whether the rules that have been in place so far have been balanced in a responsible and accountable way. this is all the more so as funding the eu economy from a wide range of sources must remain a central policy objective. the european union's markets must remain attractive for investment and financing, and eu companies must have access to a wide range of sources of finance. after one of the worst crises we have ever seen, our companies now, in these difficult times, need good financing conditions to restore their capital and equity at a reasonable cost. this can only be achieved if we regain confidence in european capital markets. it must be in our common interest.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the commission welcomes today’s debate. it is essential to investigate fully whether eu investors were fully protected in the wirecard case, as provided for by european legislation. we must draw all lessons that are necessary to ensure that cases like wirecard are detected and addressed immediately. we simply cannot allow again that a company that is part of a major stock market index, that is regulated and overseen by national supervisors, and whose auditor is one of the so—called ‘big four’, could collapse in such a way, wiping off eur 22 billion of market capitalisation. every aspect needs to be looked at – from reporting requirements to auditors and supervision. this is why the commission has been following this case very closely. as soon as wirecard announced that it would file for insolvency, we asked the european securities and markets authority to carry out a preliminary investigation on what happened. the commission welcomed the preliminary considerations that esma published on 15 july. we expect further results by the end of this month from the fast-track peer review of enforcement activities that esma has announced, and from the ongoing investigations by the various national authorities. it is too early to draw definitive conclusions about the causes of wirecard’s collapse before those investigations have been completed. having said that, it seems that the principal cause of the collapse is financial reporting fraud, potentially perpetrated over several years. we can and should already start reflecting on how to better protect investors in the eu from such failures in the future. eu rules and the way they are applied aim to eliminate risk of financial reporting fraud as much as possible. they set out three lines of defence to ensure that financial reports issued by listed companies present a true and fair view of a company’s financial position. this is very important to ensure that investors in those companies have all the information they need and are protected. the first line of defence is at the level of the company. eu law requires that eu companies with securities listed on an eu regulated market establish an audit committee. a majority of members of this committee must be independent of the audited entity. the audit committee has a broad range of responsibilities. for example, it must oversee the work of the statutory auditor. it must ensure the effectiveness of the company’s internal quality control and risk management systems and, where applicable, its internal audit. the eu law also requires disclosure of information about the company’s internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process. the second line of defence is at the level of the auditors themselves. eu rules require independent external audits. they aim to ensure high quality audits based on professional skills, independence and professional scepticism. auditors must signal any issue that could materially affect the judgement of investors and other users of financial information provided by companies. the auditor of listed companies must also report suspected irregularities, including fraud, to the authorities. the third line of defence is at the level of supervision. national authorities must carry out the daily supervision of financial reporting by companies listed on regulated markets. competent authorities must ensure that financial statements are drawn up in accordance with the relevant reporting framework and that they take appropriate measures when this is not the case. eu legislation on audits also requires national authorities to supervise the activities of statutory auditors. if appropriate, national authorities should also take enforcement actions, including by imposing sanctions. supervision is a crucial element of eu policy, at a time when european financial markets are rapidly evolving. new types of business models and players bring innovation and benefits to citizens and companies, both in terms of cost and greater competition. but they need to be supervised in accordance with the regulatory framework. the wirecard case raises serious questions about the effectiveness of all the three lines of defence. we need to take necessary actions on all fronts, including amending eu law where needed. the commission has already identified certain areas that are worth exploring. on corporate governance, these may include reinforcing a listed company’s management responsibility for the design and proper functioning of internal controls of financial reporting. we could also propose to require compliance with corporate governance requirements like establishing an audit committee as a condition for listing on a regulated market. on external audit, changes could include reinforcing the role of auditors as regards the risks of fraud and the effectiveness of internal controls on financial reporting. on supervision, we could consider strengthening the alertness and response by supervisory authorities to early warning signals. esma could be given more powers towards national competent authorities on enforcement activities. national supervisory activities could be made more transparent, both towards the european authorities, but also possibly towards the public. and we could reflect on reinforcing audit oversight and enforcement at national and european level. again, as i said earlier, we will have more knowledge of what action is needed once the investigations have been completed. but in any case it is clear that we will need to react to this. thank you very much. i look forward to hearing your views on this important issue.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the wirecard case illustrates one thing above all: the particular challenge of concentrated criminal energy, which is mainly tackled by means of the prosecution rather than by means of the financial supervisory authorities. if we read today that a bank in austria has been playing the regulators for over 30 years with criminal energy, it shows that we do not have a problem of supervision, but a problem of how we can use regulatory rules to detect criminal schemes. the first question, mr president-in-office, is of course what role national supervision has played in the country concerned. after all, you could read in the international press that something might be wrong, and yet bafin has weighed everything. the question of whether a small bank with a huge business area is properly supervised when the small bank is supervised by bafin and the rest by the competent local trade supervisory authority is also to be answered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. secondly, i am quite open about the need to strengthen the european authorities, even if the federal minister for finance is now calling for it: he was already in office when we negotiated the review of the european supervisors. he was not leading the movement to give the european supervisory authority more powers of enforcement, but he was in the brake house. that is why we should also make a clear statement on this. so i think i'm not one of those people who already knows where the solutions are, because we have to look at the problems more closely. i repeat: wherever criminal energy is used, we will be unable to really master this problem with tick boxes - with forms where you check whether something has been completed. i think that is why it makes sense to think about a special prosecutor's office at european level, as we do with financial interests. that would be the right approach, not tougher rules in places where nothing can be achieved.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, council and commission, we are once again faced with a new scandal, a new fraud, in which thousands of citizens see their savings disappear because of illegal practices. i think it is important to recognize that in this union, where there is full freedom of capital movements, in this union in which we are working to improve the consolidation of continental capital markets, with new impetus to, as i say, promote that union of capital markets in the union, we also need to recognize that national supervision is not enough, that large companies use the margins of national regulation to arbitrate in this behaviour and that, therefore, if we really believe in this union of capital markets, we need a single supervisory body in the european union that goes beyond simple coordination. because it is becoming clear that the coordination of national supervisors is not enough.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. back in 2015, the financial times published a series of articles with the telling name house of wirecard. there was talk of corruption and balance sheet fraud, but auditors, bafin and the german audit office (dpr) certified wirecard's financial conduct as impeccable. the commission also found that the dprk had not provided sufficient evidence to support its claim that the measures were in breach of the undertaking. and that's how wirecard rose to become a dax company. in september 2019, chancellor merkel, during her trip to china, still sat down for wirecard despite warnings from the german embassy in beijing, which was concerned only because of newspaper reports. the company was already under investigation by the singapore authorities. meanwhile, the munich prosecutor's office is also investigating for suspicion of money laundering. it is clear that no authority considered itself competent until the company's insolvency. the bafin classified wirecard as a technology group, while the land of lower bavaria classified wirecard as a financial group. the eu authorities deny any responsibility, as they only dream of the green economy. wirecard was the first dax company ever to file for bankruptcy, with €1.9 billion missing from its balance sheet. two board members have been arrested, one is on the run. everything points to a total failure of the german and eu authorities and to political protection of windy financial investors no different than before the 2008 financial crisis. and it's not just wirecard that is pointing to the next financial disaster.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the council has already taken a decision on this. this parliament has been representing a guiding idea for many, many years. the guiding principle of financial supervision is that large european players are subject to common supervision, while smaller players remain subject to national supervision in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. what we see here is that in the fintech sector, wirecard in germany has become a large company that has had a pan-european significance, but it has not been properly supervised by the german financial supervisor and it has not been properly supervised by the other authorities. the lesson to be drawn from this is that the principle of national supervision of large players in the internal market must be overcome in the sense of a genuine, functioning capital markets union. what i have unfortunately heard here - the german presidency's warning again against the alleged panacea of additional european powers - is an anachronism after this scandal. because what we've seen is that not only in the press, but also in the board of supervisors of the financial regulators, there's been a warning about the wirecard scandal. the bafin wiped everything away behind closed doors and said: 'we are fine.' so let us draw the consequences here! i hope that you will support a strengthened european financial supervision, which is actually responsible for all the major players, so that we can overcome economic nationalism here.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the wirecard case is not just a huge financial scandal, it's also a huge political scandal. a fraudulent management, driven by greed, has been falsifying balance sheets for years, deliberately misleading investors and lenders. this fraud is facilitated by the failure of the german financial supervisors and the miserable work of the auditors of ernst & young. during this time, wirecard had privileged access to the german government, and both chancellor angela merkel and finance minister olaf scholz have serious questions to answer in the german bundestag's investigative committee: what role did the lobbying of wirecards criminal bankers play in the political decision-making process? what role did political protection for wirecard play in prolonging this fraud case? what access do other financial companies have to senior officials of the federal government, mr minister of state, and to senior officials of the eu institutions, mr commissioner? i propose the following measures to prevent such scandals and machinations in the future: in the fintech sector too, the 'too big to fail' problem must be prevented, the activity of financial service providers must be limited to the level that makes economic sense, otherwise the general public will end up paying the consequential costs of the greed of the few. we need to strengthen european supervisory authorities; the eu regulatory framework must be able to respond adequately to the change in the financial sector. this means harmonised standards for classification, stronger regulation and supervision of fintech companies. the eu audit directive also needs to be amended. the close relationship between the big four and the companies you are investigating with due diligence must be ended and a public audit company established.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just a few months ago wirecard was one of the top 30 companies listed on the german stock exchange, along with deutsche bank, volkswagen and bayer. yet it was a journalist from the financial times who discovered this fraud, just as it was american journalists who discovered that fraud in the case of dieselgate. today we are also going to talk in this plenary about money laundering and we find that deutsche bank is the most reported european institution, with € 1 300 billion laundered; again, the journalists were the ones who discovered the case. so the question is: what is the point of decentralised agencies if they have no power to control and supervise, if they can only coordinate? mr president, my question is to reconsider the whole structure of decentralized agencies, because they are obviously conflicting, obviously contaminated by conflicts of interest in favour of the strongest states and the most powerful lobbies.
i have to say, madam president, the wirecard scandal has not only damaged the german capital market, it has also done immense damage to the entire european capital market. since 2015, we have been discussing one action plan after another to create a european capital markets union. the protection of consumers and small investors must be a top priority. but we do not have the control mechanisms that are essential for this. the wirecard scandal has made it clear once again: regulatory failures, market manipulation, insider trading and so on and so forth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the auditors' report is not used as a basis for the audit. the market dominance and conflicts of interest of the big four must be broken.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. as a politician who is also an entrepreneur, i am still today, for my decision, bound by the company i have. and we have another scandal here besides the wirecard scandal, and we have to address that very clearly: that is the scandal of the accountants. wirecard now has billions of dollars in cash on their balance sheet, but it never was. these balance sheets have been tested by ernst & young. ernst & young took millions in invoices, poured it into their pockets. investors who bought shares, who trusted this testament of ernst & young who said, i believe what the auditor said, i'm buying these securities go broke. ernst & young is shrugging, the money's in their pocket. and that is where we have to go, and that is what we have to do in national governments, including in the commission: we have to create a system where auditors are also liable for their wills in the future. then it won't happen. this eternal mantra "something is wrong" "we need more control, more authorities, more officials" is punishing everyone, that is, everyone who pays taxes. those who make the mistakes will be punished!
the council has already taken a decision on this. false balance sheets, invented sales and profits: the wirecard scandal is a highly sophisticated deception that should not have happened under so-called supervision. we need a thorough examination and a transnational roadmap to make such a massive fraud impossible in the future. in the case of wirecard, that needs to be checked out. the failure of the german financial supervisor bafin, of the private audit and also the role of european supervision must be looked at. clearly, we must close the gaps in the european legal system. european, national and regional supervisors need to work together efficiently with a sufficient number of experts to understand these complex business models at all. i have to say this: wirecard is headquartered in bavaria. that's why i have to spell it out for you. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and has already taken action to combat fraud in the member states. that is why we are looking very closely at this in the european parliament today. we need to improve eu supervision and auditing to prevent fraud. that's just the beginning of the list of things to do. we need to get better at positioning.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, today’s debate is very timely and important to make progress on key eu priorities: the recovery, strengthening the resilience of our economy, supporting the transition to a green and digital economy. the commission recently adopted two major initiatives to promote those objectives: a digital finance package and a new action plan on the capital markets union. first, i would like to thank mr kovařík for his report. the commission’s digital finance strategy is fully in line with its principles. but it is not only about principles. commission president ursula von der leyen committed to responding with a legislative act, in full respect of the proportionality, subsidiarity and better law making principles, when parliament adopts a resolution requesting that the commission submit legislative proposals, based on article 225 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. indeed, with the digital finance strategy, the commission committed to take specific action to follow up on the report’s recommendations. for example, we will propose in 2021 to harmonise rules on customer onboarding, and we will build on the upcoming review of the rules on electronic identification to implement an interoperable cross-border framework for digital identities. time is of the essence in the fast-moving world of digital finance. this is why the commission has already acted in line with the recommendations of the report. the proposal on crypto-assets brings clarity on the rules governing transparency, prudential standards and market integrity. it aims to allow companies to draw on the possibilities offered by these assets, and more generally by new technologies such as blockchain, and to do it in such a way as to mitigate risks for investors and preserve financial stability. the commission moved not only to close the regulatory gap for those crypto-assets that are not covered by the existing rules. in line with your report, we are also proposing amendments to make sure that certain crypto-assets fit into the current regulatory framework. we also proposed a pilot regime for market operators to test innovations in a safe and controlled environment. the report rightly addresses the risk of tax evasion linked to crypto-assets. our july action plan for fair and simple taxation envisages expanding the scope of the directive on administrative cooperation to cover all crypto-assets. we will come with a proposal in 2021. i also share the concerns expressed in the report about the money-laundering risks that may be associated with crypto-assets. crypto-assets are already covered by the fifth anti-money laundering directive. our proposal covers all the crypto-asset service providers listed in the financial action task force standards. it puts considerable requirements on service providers to protect consumers, market integrity and financial stability. additional requirements will follow from future proposals to overhaul the eu anti-money laundering framework in 2021. the commission also agrees on the need for a common approach to resilience of our ict infrastructures. this is why we put forward a legislative proposal on digital operational resilience. it aims to ensure that all financial market participants have put safeguards in place to cope with cyber-attacks and other ict risks. it also introduces an eu oversight framework for ict providers to financial entities, such as cloud computing service providers. so i count on parliament to make swift progress on these proposals. let me now turn to the capital markets union. i would like to thank ms benjumea for her draft report. the commission shares its priorities, and welcomes its ambition. developing our capital markets now, at a time of crisis, matters more than ever. as your report underlines, we need to stimulate financing around europe. we need more financing opportunities to help start-ups and to help larger companies to thrive. we now have 27 national capital markets that are neither fully developed nor fully integrated. this is particularly important in light of brexit. europeans do not get the most out of their savings because they lack the confidence to invest in capital markets, so we need to create more opportunities for europeans to invest safely for their future. we also need to get more funding for the green and digital transitions and, last but not least, to strengthen the international role of the euro. with our action plan, we have 16 initiatives to achieve these objectives. let me just name a few: helping large investors to invest more in eu businesses, including for the long term; making information on eu companies more easily accessible – digitally – for eu and non-eu investors by using a single access point; helping europeans to save safely for their future, for them to buy the best and cheapest financial products and so that their pensions are adequate and sustainable. the commission will propose legislation as of next year to achieve these objectives, and, with your support, we can really make progress towards completing the capital markets union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, digitalisation is changing the world. we see the digital revolution of our payment systems starting with the credit card going to bitcoins. there are 18 million bitcoins with a market capitalisation of eur 170 billion, and now we are about to face stablecoins like libra. soon, facebook will launch its own digital currency libra. admittedly, the fact that libra money could be sent cheaply across borders as quickly as text messages is very tempting, and nevertheless there are serious concerns – data protection, terrorist financing, money laundering – and therefore we need a set of rules. the digital finance report is a good basis. it provides a framework for crypto-assets. and on the other hand, now the european central bank must take responsibility. as a consumer, of course, i rather trust the central bank more than zuckerberg, and if we let facebook open a pandora’s box, or in this case a pandora’s wallet in europe, then it’s too late. a digital euro is not an option. a digital euro is a necessity for europe to achieve digital sovereignty. and a digital euro is the best answer to private initiatives such as libra. let’s take a look at our global neighbours china, japan or switzerland. they are working on their own central bank digital currency and at the end of the day the conclusion is: the question is not if there will be digital currencies in the future, but who will issue and control them? we need a framework for crypto-assets and we need a european central bank digital currency as an answer to libra.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. suddenly, according to the commission's sustainability criteria, everything is going digital: healthcare, education, the world of work, environmental protection and the fight against climate change. even peace, gender justice and lost trust in the eu are to be strengthened digitally. of course, immigration remains analogical, real and irreversible, directly passing through the labour market into the overloaded social network. the eu economy has been growing steadily slower than other oecd countries, except perhaps japan, since 2010, and is now collapsing. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. europe's cities are being africanized, the ecb is japonizing the euro, and capital markets are being further americanized. two weeks ago, the ecb registered the digital euro as a trademark. the central bank can now hold private accounts and act like a commercial bank. all of this is against the contract and is for the purpose of generating unlimited money. digitalisation is an adaptation forced by competition and is needed where it increases productivity and frees up scarce human capital in europe. but it is not a panacea for failed policies, the costs of uncontrolled immigration and sterile investment resulting from unbridled money creation.
madam president, please. today, all our efforts must be directed towards helping europe to emerge from the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. the survival of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and the preservation of millions of jobs are at stake. businesses should be able to access resources across the eu, not just in their own member state. moreover, it is becoming increasingly difficult for european capital markets to operate competitively in comparison with the much larger and more efficient us or the rapidly growing chinese capital markets. brexit will also result in the union losing one of its strongest players in the capital markets, the united kingdom. if we are to truly lead in sustainable finance and digitalisation, it is also essential to increase the integrity of capital markets. among the measures now proposed by the commission, i would particularly highlight as positive the strengthening of national capital markets, the more effective provision of finance to smes and the development of financial awareness as objectives to be achieved. at the same time, i would like to stress that national specificities must always be taken into account and that any legislative action should be preceded by a comprehensive impact assessment. finally, the strengthening of supervisory convergence is an objective to be supported, while being careful not to extend the scope of direct supervision of the union supervisory authorities to the detriment of the competence of the national supervisory authorities. such a provision would be detrimental to efficiency and would only create confusion on national markets.
madam president, we welcome the digital finance strategy of the commission as well as the crypto-assets regulation, and thank you, vice-president, because both the files address the expectations and concerns of the initiative report of this house. digital finance and crypto-assets can be considered valuable for the transition to better financial markets, but also a more efficient payment regime to remove barriers of cross-border payments, and they should definitely be based on solid political principles. we definitely need to see technological neutrality combined with business model neutrality, and the regulator should not favour only legacy business models. secondly, digital finance is about data, not just crypto-assets, and more about open finance, so even broader than open banking. thirdly, a risk-based approach is necessary, putting investor and consumer protection first, but knowledge and understanding of the technologies is equally necessary, otherwise we would be less cautious and more fearful of innovation. and fourthly, the scandal of wirecard showed that technological risks should be addressed by harmonised supervision and strong regtech, because these failures of germany showed that no country can address data-intensive financial services with the current inefficiencies and lack of data governance. so thank you for taking this into consideration and for your work until now.
the commission has already done so. this development of fintechs and digital finance offers great opportunities for innovation, opportunities for new offers, for more intense competition, for cheaper and more accessible financial products. but at the same time, we are seeing the big tech companies -- amazon, microsoft, google, facebook -- entering the financial markets, and this is a new danger to the concentration of economic power. this concentration of economic power does not fit into the social market economy. we must counter this with two key instruments: first, europe needs its own public digital currency issued by the european central bank. secondly, the same rules must apply to the big players as to the traditional financial players, namely: money laundering controls, know your customers, no more grey areas for money laundering and financial crime. then fintech and digital finance can become a success story for europe.
i have to say, madam president, i thank the rapporteurs very much. we have two very good reports to serve as a basis for the commission's work. i think that's something we can work with. i want to talk about cryptocurrencies for my part, because i see the biggest threat to the future here. cryptocurrencies -- we've talked about this before with facebook libra, for example -- that's a -- to me -- financial attack on our currency units. we should move quickly to ban these cryptocurrencies that are privately held and made by global players. we must of course create our own digital euro currency. as far as i know, the pilot project is to be run through the ecb bank from 12 october. but this path can only succeed if we have the courage to confront these global players who want to enter the financial market. let 's not pretend otherwise . this is a lot of fast money -- fast money that's being used for criminal gangs, for terrorist financing. this is about money laundering on a grand scale, cryptocurrencies, where it's not traceable where the money comes from, what exactly that money is. even european banks today don't disclose how much they're working with cryptocurrencies. that's very worrying. so we're creating bubbles here that may burst one day and cost the next generation. we must now take decisive action. and that's really only possible with a blanket ban on cryptocurrencies, unless they're tied to countries. so we have to stop facebook libra, and we have to ban bitcoin, or we will leave a legacy of financial chaos and failure for future generations. i would therefore ask the commission to take action here, to take a much more aggressive approach to these criminal schemes which are already taking place on the internet every day.
we shall begin with the announcement of the results of yesterday's second round of voting. the results of this round of voting are as follows: european climate law (commission proposal as amended): adopted; european climate law (referral back to committee): adopted; equalisation of field inspections of cereal seed-producing stocks in ukraine and of cereal seed produced in ukraine (commission proposal): adopted; objection under article 112 (2), (3) and (4) (c): specifications for titanium dioxide (e 171): accepted; objection under article 112 (2), (3) and (4) (c): maximum levels for acrylamide in certain foods for infants and young children: adopted; european forestry strategy future action (resolution as a whole): adopted; commission proposal on the application of railway safety and interoperability rules in the channel tunnel amendments nos 1, 2 and 3: adopted; commission proposal for a decision authorising france to conclude an international agreement on the channel tunnel amendments nos 1, 2 and 3: adopted; motion for a resolution: rule of law and fundamental rights in bulgaria amendments nos 3d and 35d: rejected; amendment no 36 is rejected. amendment no 37 is rejected. amendment no 4: rejected amendment no 38 is rejected. amendment no 39 is rejected. amendment no 40 is rejected. amendment no 41: rejected the commission shall adopt the measures necessary to implement this directive. paragraph 7 - part 3: adopted paragraph 7 - part 4: adopted amendment no 42 is rejected. amendment no 43: rejected amendment no 44: rejected paragraph 12 is adopted; amendment no 5d: rejected amendment no 6d: rejected amendment no 7: rejected amendment no 8d: rejected amendment no 45: rejected amendment no 46 is rejected. amendment no 12 was adopted; amendment no 47: rejected amendment no 48: rejected amendment no 49 was adopted; amendment no 9d: rejected amendment no 13 was adopted; amendment no 14 was adopted; amendment no 15 was adopted; amendment no 16 was adopted; amendments nos 10 and 17 are adopted; amendments nos 1d and 18d: rejected amendment no 2d: rejected amendment no 19 is rejected. amendment no 20d: rejected amendment no 21: rejected amendment no 22: rejected amendment no 23 was adopted; amendment no 24: rejected amendment no 25: rejected amendment no 26 was adopted; amendment no 27: rejected amendment no 29 was adopted; amendment no 30: rejected amendment no 31: rejected amendment no 32: rejected amendment no 33 was adopted; amendment no 34: rejected amendment no 11 was adopted. report by mr kovařík on digital finance: emerging risks in crypto-assets regulatory and supervisory challenges in the area of financial services, financial institutions and financial markets amendment 9: adopted; amendment no 5: rejected amendment no 6 is rejected. amendment no 7 was adopted; amendment no 1: rejected amendment no 2: rejected amendment no 3: rejected amendment no 10: adopted amendment no 11 is rejected; paragraph 40: adopted paragraph 58: adopted amendment no 4: rejected amendment no 12 is rejected. amendment no 13 was adopted; amendment no 8 was adopted. report by mrs benjumea benjumea on the further development of the capital markets union: improving access to finance in the capital market, in particular for smes, and improving participation opportunities for retail investors amendment 1: adopted; paragraph 26: rejected amendment no 2: adopted, which repeals paragraph 38; amendment no 3 was adopted; the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the exemption. i now give the floor to vice-president dubravka šuica, who has asked to make a statement on behalf of the commission.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on combating money laundering related to fincen files (2020/2812 ((rsp)). i would remind the honourable members that no spontaneous speeches or blue cards will be accepted in any of the debates of this sitting.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we're here today, and i think we can all agree that money laundering is not an option. but we're here crying crocodile tears about how terrible this is and how we've made so many rules, but the rules aren't being enforced. i think we have to say: it's no good fighting the symptoms. it is no use to always be against money laundering, because we have to tackle what is behind it. it's the only way to drain this swamp that's opening up. we must fight the criminal machinations that lead to this dirty money. and only when we have succeeded in doing so, only when we have put a stop to the greed that is spreading here, can we finally be successful in combating money laundering. and i wish you much success and good luck in that.
before we continue the debate, i shall open the first round of votes today. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 9.30 a.m. to 10.45 a.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote until 10.45 a.m. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 12.30 p.m.
we now continue the debate on the commission's statement on the fight against money laundering as a result of the fincen files (2020/2812(rsp)).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i hear a lot about new authorities, new regulations, new bans, but i also warn against losing proportion in the fight against the one objective, which is money laundering. deutsche bank has said it has invested €1 billion in new compliance institutions in response to the fincen files. i do not think that they contribute to the prosperity of europe. if you are a small or medium-sized businessman and want to open a new account with your commercial bank, you have to go through a medium-sized pile of forms. it's just that we want new financial police, new reporting requirements. do you really believe that these will help to remedy the chronic weakness of growth in the european union? i can only warn against always wanting to respond with new regulations, new prohibitions and new authorities. we simply have to acknowledge that there are criminals and we must not cause more damage by fighting these criminals than money laundering itself does.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fincen files show how flawed and flawed our system is when it comes to preventing money laundering. we see revelations about criminal activities of banks operating internationally, laundering money with the mafia, with terrorists, with drug lords, and in the middle of this process are deutsche bank and commerzbank. criminals take advantage of the fact that governmental surveillance - which was created to prevent such scandals - is not working. the banks apparently have no problem with their behaviour after the financial crisis, and the many loopholes make policy actions meaningless. and that is why we need a clear yes from the eu member states to a central european anti-money laundering authority - a clear yes that must happen now and not be many years away. and we need a clear yes to the implementation of existing rules with a legal framework that is harmoniously implemented in the eu, without outsiders who would rather wait for an infringement procedure and risk it than do something. only a joint, better coordination in europe can change this unethical filth and we must do something about it now.
mr giegold, i'm not going to tell you. a point of order, if you please, otherwise we cannot have the debate here... yes, then state the reasons for the rules of procedure, but do not make a statement!
i think the commission heard the question and will find a way to respond to that, but not now here in a public debate. i’m sorry. this was not really something on the agenda.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on long-term care facilities (2020/2794 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. covid-19 is scary. and it's no wonder, because we wake up with covid-19, and we go to sleep with covid-19. i fear that the measures we are taking to combat the pandemic will do far more damage than the pandemic itself. i am not referring to the devastating economic consequences of these measures. no, i mean the measures that have been taken that affect the most vulnerable in society - people in care facilities. in germany, one in two people who died of covid-19 died in a care facility. what action has the government taken? she's isolated these people. she's imposed a ban on all contact with their families. this measure has not saved any lives - quite the contrary. it was incredibly cruel, it was inhumane, and it took lives. it is in such a difficult time that these people naturally need love and affection and closeness to their loved ones. this would have been possible without any problems, of course, if the measures had been observed. we know that today. this can't happen again. this measure was cruel and inhuman. what happened to the hidden heroes of the pandemic, our nurses who were really on the front lines, who sacrificed? what did they get? give it up. what else? applause is nice, appreciation. but was that all? our federal government has provided ridiculous lump sums really ridiculous. but has anything changed in the basic situation of the nursing staff? the situation was already a disaster: a certified nurse in germany earns a gross of 2 500 euros. two and a half thousand euros! she has to work hard for eight hours, physically and mentally. after those eight hours, she can usually sit for another hour or two for documentation. i know that now, not because i read it, but because my wife works there, so i know the problems. we need a policy of humanity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of the elderly is not compromised by the introduction of a new health and safety directive. the eu policy implemented in greece by new democracy and syriza, as well as in health and elderly care, was that of deliberately minimal and degraded, underfunded and under-supported public structures, to open the way to the superprofits of private welfare groups. the result is the mistreatment of the elderly and facilities that are hotbeds of the virus, both for the elderly and for workers. you're only showing interest because the nursing home cases are filling the minimal icu beds of commercialized public health systems with iv patients. the criteria are cost-benefit for you and individual liability with disclaimer for private groups. so today, the urgent need is to strengthen preventive measures, mass repetitive tests, direct permanent recruitment of staff, the privatization of private units and the state's responsibility for them, as well as their inclusion in the state plan with free services.
mr. chairman, please! millions of elderly, terminally ill, disabled, and immunocompromised people are in long-term care facilities. 86% of the staff in these centres are women nurses, healthcare workers often employed for financial reasons in several different facilities or hospitals, which increases the risk of transmission of the virus. the workers of these centers report a lack of adequate human and equipment protection, which leads to high mortality. the extra isolation and lack of contact with loved ones doesn't make treatment any easier. it should also be remembered that in the event of increased restrictions, many carers may not be able to get to work, others may take leave or be laid off because they have no one to care for their families or their children. we have to be aware that without adequate equipment, staff and financial support, without better remuneration of staff, we will not be able to improve the situation in these facilities, because it is difficult to fight the epidemic without the basic protective equipment: masks, gloves or suits. one of my colleagues told me that in germany the average salary for such workers is 2,500 euros. ladies and gentlemen, in eastern european countries, such a worker earns only a few hundred euros - an embarrassingly low figure considering the commitment and the risk involved. commissioner, action and reaction are needed here and now, not in 2021. i know that this is the responsibility of the member states, but in many of these countries, without the support of the commission, it will only get worse.
president, commissioner, whether you lost your job, your health got in trouble, or you lost loved ones, we all have our own story of how coronavirus has affected our lives, and still does. but the ics, homes and nursing homes throughout europe have been particularly hard hit, and in many places they have had to be hermetically sealed. no one came in anymore. my own sister lives in a residential care complex and was not allowed to receive visitors for months just a phone call or a wave from the parking lot, that's all she could do. many families in europe have experienced the same thing, and for months they were not allowed to see and hug their grandparents, their father, their mother, their sister, their brother, and some form of humanity was missing. unfortunately, everything right now points to this so-called second wave of hatred. let europe, please, take the bull by the horns and tackle this crisis together, because it is up to the commission to ensure that there is a coordinated approach so that not all member states are left to fend for themselves. there must also be strict regulations on safety at work. and the commission must ensure that adequate protective equipment is available to everyone in care, in nursing homes, in care homes and in hospitals. because everyone has the right to do their job in a safe way. and everyone also has the right to know that they're surrounded by their loved ones.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, of course, my thoughts are with the victims of covid-19 and their families. and i have to say, we all owe you an apology. the problems we have had in long-term care homes have been known for decades: lack of staffing, lack of equipment, overcrowding and lack of care - not because of the will of the nurses, who are committed to their work, but because of the overcrowding and bureaucracy and the lack of documentation. that's a fact. i'm a nurse's aide myself. i know what i'm talking about. we, as a family party in germany, back then, long before covid-19, years before, brought in the k21 concept. and there's really only one thing: when i hear "care centers", i hear it all wrong. what we need is 'ambulant versus inpatient' for people to live their lives independently. 'walking before inpatient' is also a principle in germany, but is not practiced. we must live by that principle. we wrote it down years ago in the k21 concept. there would have been a lot fewer deaths. i mean, let's stop this policy of failing to care! and just to conclude, very briefly, i always say to my nursing staff, when they ask me how to treat, "treat your people the way you want to be treated. and if you take that to heart, you're not doing anything wrong. i think we should all take that to heart.
author. – mr president, first of all, let me say that i fully support the campaign regarding dawit isaak. i think we also need to reaffirm our support for the right to freedom of belief. on a much wider note, i think the member states need to review policy regarding eritrea, and in particular our financial support that keeps this despotic regime in power. their reliance on the national service law, which is in fact modern slavery, ensures a fearful and compliant population. their intimidation of any opposition, including deadly force, should be no longer tolerated. eritrea’s foreign policy, such as it is, serves to destabilise an already desperate region. the member states need to come together to agree a policy on eritrea, ethiopia, somalia, and not simply provide support to maintain the status quo.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the internet was and is a place of freedom, especially in autocratic states, and to preserve that freedom is our most important task. but today, the worry is huge: false information spreading at a breathtaking rate, hate and incitement pushing women and minorities out of the public digital discourse, and that too threatens freedom of expression. but how could this happen in the last 20 years? today, few companies have a monopoly on what people see on the internet. that is why we need new legislation on digital services and new rules on competition. what are the most urgent tasks? first, we must put an end to an advertising business model that spies on people and manipulates their behaviour. we must also use this opportunity to restore the funding of the quality press, which we so badly need in times of uncertainty. today, three quarters of digital advertising revenue in france and germany, for example, goes to google and facebook. second, online platforms must disclose the principles by which they prioritize contributions. we need to shine a light on the darkness of these platforms, and we need to give users the ability to design their timelines according to their own desires. thirdly, we need very clear rules on how to deal with illegal content, that is, detailed and binding notice and action procedures. so transparency and democratic control, those are also our guiding values for artificial intelligence. artificial intelligence must serve european priorities, and this is the european green deal at the moment, first and foremost, because our most urgent task is still climate protection. but when it comes to humans, we need to have strict rules, because we know that artificial intelligence is a good servant, but a bad master. we know that ai projects past wrongdoings, like racism or discrimination against women, into the future, and therefore anchors us in the past, and we don't want that. finally, we must ensure that european fundamental rights are effectively enforced in the field of artificial intelligence, and this will only be possible with a european body that can represent the interests of european citizens on an equal footing with global digital companies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the tourist industry. madam president, commissioner, the development of computing, big data and algorithms has made artificial intelligence strategic today. but only people can ensure that values such as pluralism, solidarity and democracy inoculate us against the mistakes and abuses that can turn this opportunity into a pandemic of 'artificial negligence'. we need clear, simple, flexible and common legislation which does not undermine the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs in the global market and which avoids fragmentation, which controls the processes of generating and operating these tools, which detects risks and corrects dysfunctions through continuous evaluation and which guarantees structured participation by users. this global plan should encourage intensive local action, focused on coordinating and better understanding technological capabilities, promoting talent and supporting intrapreneurship and the creation of new businesses. by bringing knowledge and value to the local industrial system, regions such as the basque country, recently highlighted as an example of innovation by president von der leyen, should help the union to become globally competitive. ai needs ethical principles to prevent bias in algorithms, clarify industrial and legal aspects, and establish formulas to determine and debug civil liability arising from facts in which the influence of ai is key. this is a crucial aspect in the field of mobility. the committee on transport and tourism is committed to artificial intelligence to provide integrated services that are better adapted to users and greener. but we warned that without investment in infrastructure to get data collected and circulated properly, the technology will not be enough. the changes ahead call for a holistic view of urban and inter-urban transport and for innovation and training to consolidate the new trades already demanded by smart mobility.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the debate on the digital services act has shown me that we have not yet sufficiently internalized what it means that the eu has been a legal subject of the unesco convention on the protection and promotion of cultural diversity and cultural expressions for 15 years. the accidental presence of many colorful videos on the web may be entertaining, but it is not the safeguard of cultural diversity or even media diversity. cultural and media diversity will only be guaranteed if we commit all the main actors to guarantee the accessibility of journalistic content and cultural education content beyond economic interests without any ifs and buts. this requires bold regulation that starts before big service providers are important or even gatekeepers. this requires special regulation, because media are not only economic goods but also cultural goods and should therefore be treated differently from butter or screws. the availability of high-quality, credible information, easily accessible to all, rather than the variety of colourful videos, is the basic prerequisite for enabling meaningful public debate in a digitised world, which is the foundation of a free and democratic society. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of information centres. and in a world where big data and algorithmic decision-making are playing an increasingly important role, we're faced with a paradox: for the intermediaries themselves, the processes of opinion formation are becoming more and more transparent through the data that is available to them. but the public is less and less aware of the mechanisms and influences that shape political opinion. you can see that disclosing algorithms alone is not going to be enough. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders. i think we have a lot of work to do in this respect.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. – madam president, the digital age we live in today permeates our daily lives and even more so our children’s lives. can we accept that algorithms created by international corporations decide on what we can say and read online, what human rights defenders can say, what dissidents and whistle—blowers can publish? do you know that youtube’s filters suppressed a parliamentary debate on torture because they confused it with violence online? many constitutions ban ex—ante censorship. it is high time we take back control and do the same with censorship machines used by digital platforms. secondly, let’s tackle the predominant business model of surveillance capitalism. major platforms are tracking our every click, everything we read and write online, to analyse our personalities, our likes, our weaknesses, our illnesses. we cannot accept this permanent surveillance of users online, and therefore we need to make sure that we are not subject to pervasive tracking. likewise, the right to anonymity is essential to safeguard our identity online and prevent abuses and data losses and sales. finally, let’s address the gated communities on the internet. let’s make sure consumers can choose which platform to use to ensure competition and to ensure interaction across platforms, to break the dependency and the user lock—in that is predominant on the internet. let’s make sure we take back control of our digital lives. let me add one aspect regarding the ai reports. there is some mention here of biometrics surveillance that has nothing to do with the report on ai and ipr protection. let’s make sure that we do not confuse artificial intelligence with surveillance. this language on biometrics surveillance needs to be deleted.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. the commission is not prepared to accept this. artificial intelligence is a part of our daily lives. for example, when our music streaming app suggests new songs to us based on our listening habits. other areas may be less familiar to most of us, but have the potential to transform products, industries and indeed our entire lives - in medicine, mobility or agriculture. the eu has now set itself the objective of creating a uniform set of rules. this is pioneering work, and it is also easy to say that it offers a real economic and social opportunity and can become a great local advantage. there are three points to which we must pay particular attention: first: we need to foster innovation, not hold it back. we should remain open to technology in any form of regulation and rely on unbureaucratic rules. second, civil rights are non-negotiable. the protection of fundamental rights is at the top of my agenda. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to comply with the obligations of the treaty. thirdly, harmonization in the internal market. the only way to increase the opportunities for artificial intelligence for people and the economy is to have uniform rules for the whole of the internal market. this is because it creates the greatest possible legal certainty for businesses and consumers. but we don't have to reinvent the wheel. in many areas we already have regulations, for example on liability, on intellectual property. but we have to look carefully: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. the european union can then become the world leader in innovation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the german government has just introduced a chatbot that should provide us all with guidance in these difficult covid times - an example of artificial intelligence in miniature. i just tested the bot and one thing i noticed is that normal human-like communication is not possible outside of the keyword "bingo". a chatbot of the federal government is not a reflection of the breathtaking developments we are facing, of course, but it clearly shows one thing: there can be no ai without humans as creators, but also without humans as end recipients. our strategies for artificial intelligence must be human-centric. and with these reports, we are taking the first proper step in that direction. we're setting human responsibility for ai. but we also have a responsibility to people. the intelligence may be artificial, but it's only with real, non-artificial fundamental rights that we can move forward. and that is why we expressly welcome the fact that the report on ethics is not just about philosophizing about abstract ethical principles, but that it is a basis for binding european regulations and for fundamental rights. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to ensure that the european union is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the new technologies. if the human doesn't understand the federal government chatbot, then the technology has failed. if humans are discriminated against by algorithms, then the technology has failed. if artificial intelligence changes human habitat beyond recognition and destroys our climate, then the technology has failed. and this is not an appeal to pessimism, but to the optimism of progress. this is the most important thing for us. finally, ai cannot be thought of without a green balance sheet. of course, we need ai for our green transition, but we can't imagine it without looking at the damage that ai is doing. in frankfurt alone, 20% of energy costs are generated by data centres. the internet consumes more co2 costs in germany than air travel. we have to change that, we have to put that into the green accounting of ai. that's the only way we're going to get ahead. no ai technology without fundamental rights and environmental protection.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we're debating the digital services act today, and we want to use it to set new rules for digitization. we want to protect freedom on the internet, take advantage of opportunities, innovate, but also address negative effects such as hate speech and fake news. i think very concretely, if we look at my report, the libe report, which i was able to contribute to - i also thank the rapporteur, mr peeters - we have made sure that there is more transparency in the algorithms, that users should have more possibilities to actually determine what they see in content, that we have clear rules for notice and takedown and that we also make it clear - this has been said by many - what is illegal is also decided on the internet by the courts and that does not decide the platform in the end. but what all three reports also have in common - and i think this is an important sign - is that all three reports are clearly against upload filters, against any filtering obligation de jure and de facto. i think that is a good sign, because it also means that this parliament is now somewhat emancipated from a decision taken last term on article 13. i know, dear axel, that we disagree, but i think this is also a good sign for all the young people out there who were in the streets, who were disappointed by the decision of parliament, but who now also see that it makes sense to contribute to this european democracy because we also perceive, absorb and improve these things. and that, i think, is a strong sign today. but we're making a lot of important rules now, or we're going to make a lot of important rules with this digital services act. but we should also work to become better at europe, not just at making rules but also at enforcing them. we've seen this in the general data protection regulation: we've come up with some great rules, and in the end, the big platforms still don't follow them. so we should also pay particular attention to the digital service act, to set smart, correct, realistic rules, and we should make sure above all that these rules are also enforced in europe. that's what this is about.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the digital services act is intended to be the eu's patent recipe for putting online platforms on a leash. however, there are also significant risks and side effects. one side effect is the so-called fact-checkers. the problem is, fact-checkers don't check facts, they check content for the right political desired mindset. the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung has rightly said: the correctiv journalistic agency, hired by facebook as an anti-fake news brigade, should set the same standards for itself as it does for others, not be blind to any eye and not investigate in only one direction. the next step in the orwellian ministry of truth is the so-called upload filters, which prevent politically unwanted opinions from being published in the first place. we saw how this works in the united states last week: apparently, presidential candidate joe biden is embroiled in a tangible corruption scandal in ukraine, which the new york post wanted to cover in a story. but because it can't be what it shouldn't be, the article was blocked on facebook and twitter by upload filters. and that's how the world doesn't know about biden's corruption scandal. and you can only really hope that trump actually gets reelected. i wish him every success in that. article 5 of the constitution guarantees freedom of expression and states unequivocally: "censorship shall not take place". but a union which tramples on the constitutions of its member states in this way is not only undemocratic, it is anti-democratic, dictatorial and totalitarian. as a german and as a supporter of the german constitution, i say: we do not need a digital services act, we do not need the eu, we need an exit. the sooner the better! get out now!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. digitalisation is necessary, it brings risks, but also opportunities. it is necessary because international competition forces structural change and modernisation, and without adjustments no economy can survive. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft law on the protection of personal data. the commission and parliament are not concerned with consumer protection at all, but, as almost always, with the right of interpretation not only of illicit but also of undesirable content. the only thing that should be shared online is what is liked not by the users, but by the judiciary, the public prosecutor and a new eu agency for that purpose. our confidence here is more in john stuart mill and his belief in the insight of reason - not by decree or censorship, but by freedom of speech in the decentralized competition of ideas. and let's face it, digital transformation and artificial intelligence are the saviors when we're running out of natural intelligence because of the shortage of young europeans. because artificial intelligence unlocks scarce human intelligence and is socially and politically cheaper than unskilled immigration.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is the region with the lowest level of innovation among the major economies in terms of it and artificial intelligence. the music is playing in the united states and in asia. we are proposing a new regulation which restricts freedom but - and this has become a common practice - creates a new agency and thus new posts. i'm afraid that's the wrong focus. we can only regulate digital development if it is taking place at all, and our regulation must promote it and not restrict it further. we don't need more officials, we need more research. we need more freedom, not more regulation, and not just for technology, but for opinion. in this context, i think we should move away from a mind game based on trying to make every life risk legal and create an agency for every possible violation of the law. we should return to the willingness to take risks, because a risk always offers an opportunity. a chance for development to continue and perhaps europe to overcome its weakness in innovation and to overcome its strength in regulation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after a year and a half of inaction, it is completely incomprehensible to me that the votes on the common agricultural policy have been scheduled now, in the middle of the covid-19 lockdown. there are over two thousand amendments on the table. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and so my speech today is not directed at the members of this sham debate, but rather at the citizens and farmers, if they are listening here more by accident, because there is hardly anyone to debate with, as usual. if you want to know how successful the eu's agricultural mismanagement has been so far, just look at the farmland. in the last twenty years the number of farms in germany has halved. many of them are running a side business because they cannot make a living, because they cannot manage the investment of the ever-increasing number of items. the family farms that are supposed to be protected will soon be a thing of the past. the new cap you only have to look at the commission's brief summary to see where the journey is going. nineteen pages explain how the farmer should improve environmental and climate performance. the main priority, the commission said, was to set more ambitious climate targets and, contrary to what it said, it wanted to get more and more into national agricultural policies and demanded that member states adopt strategic plans. the farmer of the future: he can put up hedges, plant trees, sow flowers and create nesting grounds. the only thing he is not allowed to do is produce food, because the commission believes that this is responsible for the extinction of species and pollution of the environment. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive. china, for example, has 27,000 pesticides approved, and they're coming through processed foods. by comparison, only a thousand are licensed in germany. and the german farmer, beaten by inaction by associations and a government whose only priority is the presidency of the council, is paying the price for distortions of competition in the eu - the latest victims being german sugar beet growers - and is thus financing his own abolition with german taxpayers' money.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in the midst of this pandemic, in the midst of this unfathomable crisis, in which we are learning, sometimes painfully, that too much interference with nature is making us sick, in the midst of these times, do you want to stick to these old structures in agricultural policy? but this money for big change is needed to support farmers who want to do more animal welfare, more biodiversity, more climate protection and less intensive practices on the ground. this old system, which is primarily for agribusiness, which is proven to be a burden on our ecosystems and therefore a disease on us and our planet, is man-made. and it is simply being carried on here, and we could change it if the social democrats, if the progressive forces here would not simply leave the field. be realistic and vote with us for a new start for the cap!
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the commission work programme for 2021 (2020/2772 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you that a group debate is scheduled for this debate. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in addition, there are online bulletins from parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr petras auštrevičius, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on relations with belarus (2020/2081(ini)) (a9-0167/2020). i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission will also be able to use the internet to send out messages from parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, two months ago lukashenko stole the elections and here we spend again for the fourth time debating what to do. while we debate, those who dare to speak up against injustice and violence are kidnapped, detained, imprisoned, beaten, tortured and raped. while we debate, athletes, scientists, journalists, doctors are purged, it specialists expelled from the country, factory workers deprived of their income, parents and kids threatened and blackmailed. while we debate, putin’s russia has encroached belarus’ sovereignty and the dictator in minsk is ready to sell his country to save himself. enough with debates, let’s take actions. first, the sanctions list has to be updated and extended by everyone who executes lukashenko’s orders. we should also include those in the list who spread misinformation and propaganda from russia. second, those athletes, scientists, students, doctors, it specialists, should immediately be given schengen visas and get the opportunity to work here in the european union. third, all brutal regimes come to an end and lukashenko’s dictatorship is no exception. we should be prepared for peaceful transfer of power and already now pledge financial assistance to a post—lukashenko democratic government. this will send a signal to the people of belarus that the eu stands with them. in this process, parliament here should take the lead. lastly, the source of lukashenko’s power is president putin. the dictator can only afford to oppress his own people because he remains useful to the kremlin. you cannot expect putin to change; he will not become a reliable partner of the european union. instead, we should take decisive measures and send a clear sign that oppressing, annexing, occupying, poisoning, will not be tolerated by the european union.
i thank you for this debate and i think i can say a thank you also to the administration in brussels and in the liaison offices of the european parliament. it worked out very well, even technically. since this is possible, we are perhaps the most advanced parliament in the world, i would say, and we are coping really well with the difficult conditions of the corona pandemic. the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today and the final vote will be held tomorrow, wednesday 21 october 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr sven mikser, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the preparation of the 2020 review procedure of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt), on nuclear arms control and on nuclear disarmament options (2020/2004ini)) (a9-0020/2020). i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. there are no notified cases, but in theory we would also be able to provide for online calls from the member states.
i have to say, madam president, 75 years ago, u.s. nuclear weapons were dropped on hiroshima and nagasaki. the devastation was so great that man and nature felt the effects for decades. the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons was a key lesson, but disarmament is being reversed. but not even the threat of nuclear weapons is acceptable! it is a fallacy to think that nuclear weapons mean greater security. the earth is still full of thousands of nuclear weapons, and it is contaminated with them. at present, the german air force is training with belgian, dutch and italian fighter jets and is practicing the dropping of atomic bombs. behind the scenes, germany is negotiating with france to gain greater access to france's nuclear arsenal. we are not going to be able to do that. i'm not going to. europe must become a nuclear-weapon-free zone. us weapons should be disarmed too. the whole world must be free of nuclear weapons. french, british, american or russian nuclear bombs, any nuclear bombs, should finally be eradicated so that all life cannot be exterminated. to do so, the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons must also be signed by all all eu member states without exception.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am speaking today from the european parliament's eu liaison office in munich. i am aware that police forces around the globe today tend to be perceived as out of control, racist, institutionally brutal and in need of reform. i'd like to offer an alternative perspective. police are constantly attacked for doing their jobs, and are subject to attacks even when they are not monitoring civil unrest. there have been cases in france where police officers have been shot by drive-by shooters. similar incidents have been reported from the united states and other countries. only a few months ago, unspeakable acts of violence against police officers took place in stuttgart and frankfurt. our police forces are faced with an impossible task: they are supposed to protect society from itself, but there are many people who are supposed to be policed by the police who want to bring down society as we know it. we must not allow these false representations of police aggression to take place. if individual police officers cross borders, this will of course be punished by the courts. we can't condemn our police simply because political correctness seems to reward violent anti-social troublemakers who have jumped on the latest fake news story. our job as politicians should be to support our police, not to fall on their backs.
mr president, the eu commenced trade negotiations with maximum demands for a level playing field on eu terms, pre-brexit fishing rights and continued ecj jurisdiction. britain wanted a canada-style trade deal and signalled some flexibility; the eu in contrast barely moved. negotiation is a discussion between parties with divergent views but a shared interest in finding a compromise. the eu, notably germany, has a vast trade surplus with the uk, yet the german presidency and the commission remain committed to an unequal treaty on eu terms and enforceable before the eu’s imperial court. merkel and von der leyen know not to negotiate because they know not when to compromise. that way they will not have their way.
mr president, i’m a full-hearted european. for me it’s all in for the union and for the climate, and i think that the youth want that from us, they want to see passion and commitment for the planet. but what do they see if they look at the meeting of the heads of state? the opposite. they see delay tactics at the expense of our climate and of their future. the heads of state of europe cannot come to an agreement on climate politics. your inaction is blocking the progress. therefore, i ask you, the german presidency, don’t shy away any more from your responsibility on the climate and the postponement of climate action. and if you can’t deliver, just give climate policy back to the normal democratic legislative procedure because we are ready and why aren’t you?
i have to say, madam president, so first of all, thank you very much, i was at the consultation, mrs dobrev, you handled it very well. i would like to thank mr radtke. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but i am saying that it has not been consulted. what has been forgotten, however, are the parents and the poverty of old age. if you look at the poverty of old age in germany and other european countries, you know that parents have been cheated out of their life's work for decades. that's it. and if you look at how child poverty continues to advance, you know that there is a need for action, and not just with a switch guarantee, in simple words, we are making access to education. we need direct financial support for the children to get the children out of child poverty. that is why we, as a family party, have stepped forward and passed the child support bill for 2525. it is embedded in the social report that children need to be better off financially, and that leaves only the child support allowance. we have made our way through, and it is now up to mrs merkel and the german presidency to make use of this opportunity and to put it to good use. i would like to ask you to support the substance of this social report, above all to strengthen the financing of children and to combat child poverty directly. we owe it to future generations.
i have to say, madam president, i am proud that you have found the courage to be here today. because we've known since last week that it's dangerous here. this building is apparently the covid-19 hotspot of europe. it takes courage to come to this parliament, and the interesting thing is: what is the reason? what are the causes? it has nothing to do with the fact that in the last few weeks, oysters and champagne have been served here again. it has to do with the intensity of the work done in this parliament - it has nothing to do with anything else. and what action will that take? 80% of our staff is in the home office. there was actually a discussion last week about whether we should be allowed in the building at all. thank god we are allowed in. our meetings will soon be completely digital - at least from january. so, personally, i think it's good. because then maybe we can finally do something meaningful with this building. for example, housing the homeless, which was already announced in the media in april, doing something for the homeless, and then again nothing happened but warm words. so let us stay at home and let those who can do the work do it: the national parliaments! because they're fully functional.
i have to say, madam president, one thing is clear: the victims of this covid-19 crisis and this economic and financial crisis are the families in every country. the families have to deal with the crisis and we must strengthen them. that is why i have already made a plea in my speech: we must finally introduce this child benefit so that we can lift millions of children out of child poverty and strengthen families. this is the best economic policy, because families need the money and they spend that money and put it into the money cycle. this means a substantial increase in tax revenue in each country, which means an increase in productivity, job security and job creation. that's why we have to put money directly in the hands of the people. and that's social and that's modern economic policy. and i only have 16 seconds to talk to mr meuthen, who is sadly no longer here. i am happy to give you the answers: because we are pursuing a human policy - unlike you - and because we are pursuing a policy which puts people at the centre and which puts europe at the centre of a certain set of values. we are a social, humane europe for the people, not a cold and backward europe, but a modern, forward-looking europe - just a response.
i have to say, madam president, we also see in the contributions: this is one of the most serious crises the european union has ever experienced, and i fear the worst is yet to come. the fear of poverty and social degradation is growing, and so is insecurity. we see that covid-19 is a fire accelerator of poverty. it is therefore right that commissioner gentiloni has stressed the importance of solidarity solutions such as sure. but short-time working does not cover certain groups of workers, and here we must act. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we know how important adolescence is to the whole life stage, to the life course. and what we're seeing is that young people are being held back at a key stage and then they're being held responsible for the infection happening. we need real prospects. it's got to be more than just the youth guarantee. and we find that we have a wave of restructuring in europe. companies that use the crisis to reduce or relocate jobs, in violation of existing workers' rights to information and consultation. we need stronger rules here and we need to act so that the rights that democracy requires in the workplace are actually enforced. there is more to be done here than the commission has so far included in its work programme.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me point out something fundamental: we are obviously in fear and horror at the ominous number of people who have tested positive for the coronavirus. the fact that this number is growing exponentially means that the competent authorities - rightly or wrongly, i will leave that to the discretion of the individual - are imposing far-reaching and restrictive measures without, it seems to me, questioning whether the consequences of these measures are not much more serious. we're suddenly afraid of numbers. we should fear god. as jesus christ said in matthew 10:28, "and do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in gehenna. because we have lost our christian foundation and true fear of god, we now fear a virus. how embarrassing is that? if we turn around, we will stop acting like rescuers in need and start giving people back their vitality and true joy in life.
in writing. the eu says the newly created financial instruments such as sure and the reconstruction fund are necessary to mitigate the impact of the covid-19 crisis on national societies and economies in the eu. this is wrong. as the social and economic consequences vary from one member state to another, member states should and must also pursue their own specific policies to address these challenges. in any case, the reconstruction fund is a complete etiquette scam. the 750 billion euros are said to be used to reduce the economic and social consequences of the crisis. in reality, however, they are used to advance the 'green deal' and to complete a debt and transfer union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the message is to spend more and more money, and that is why new funds are created by a new budget. the chancellor has always stressed that there would never be a community debt. now there is indeed a common debt and there is no going back. the eu's debt-taking, despite the fact that it has no sovereignty and no budgetary powers of its own, and the distribution of the money bypassing the parliaments and its budgetary law, is a violation of democracy and the law. the result is that in this transfer union, 40% of the eu population co-finances the other 60%.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am pleased to be here with you today from berlin to discuss this important subject which affects us all every day. whether it's in our morning coffee, our chocolate, our barbecued meat, even in car seats, in many of our everyday consumer goods and uses, there is the destruction of our forests. and we consumers often contribute to this unconsciously. forests are being cleared, burned, and cleared to make way for agriculture. it is being replaced by soybean, coffee, cocoa, palm oil and other crops. the same applies to cattle, whose meat and leather are also traded on the european market and contribute to 10% of global deforestation. because there are no uniform rules or reliable labels, we can't be sure that the coffee beans, the soybean meal, the beef leather, didn't come from areas like the amazon that were deliberately converted into agricultural land. so it happens that even for the steaks we put on the grill here in europe, on another continent the rainforest is literally burning. europe's largest meat processors and steakhouse chains regularly source their products from leading brazilian meat producers, who are associated with the destruction of forests, despite their own commitment not to cut down forests. even european cars are deforested: recently, ngos have revealed that a well-known german car brand buys the leather for some of its luxury cars from italian suppliers, who in turn source their material from paraguayan farms, which are unscrupulously expanding their agricultural activities into the forests of the gran chaco. in 2019 alone, colleagues, an area the size of a football field was destroyed every two minutes in paraguay. and this is just one of many examples. in 2019, there was a loss of primary rainforests the size of belgium. countries such as brazil, the republic of congo and indonesia are among the most affected. europe's consumption contributes to this global deforestation. and no one in europe should be able to decide for or against a deforestation-free product right in front of the supermarket shelf, but there are currently no european rules that prohibit this. the european commission announced last year in its communication on the protection of international forests that it would take action to combat this. and the work plan presented - and we are very pleased about it, mr sinkevičius - confirms this. but we have not been idle in the european parliament either, and we have prepared ourselves. we are voting this week on a report that sets out the demands for this legislation, and it embodies a simple principle: if a company wants to bring products to the eu market - the largest in the world - it must demonstrate that the entire supply chain, including suppliers, business partners and retailers, does not include products or services linked to deforestation or the destruction of other valuable ecosystems. but the destruction of forests, the green lungs of our planet, home to 80 percent of rural biodiversity and one of our strongest allies in the fight against climate change, is not only an ecological disaster, it is also a social one, because the destruction of forests is often the cause and consequence of human rights violations. therefore, companies must also be able to demonstrate that their products are not associated with labour rights violations, land grabbing and violence against those who live by, with and in forests. where human rights violations or environmental damage are part of a supply chain, despite the influence of a company, european companies should be able to be held liable for these damages under civil law and to pay compensation. contrary to what is often claimed, companies are not held responsible for events over which they have no influence. they are merely expected to meet their own due diligence obligations. a law without a liability clause would be little more than a toothless declaration of intent. these rules should also apply to financial institutions. people need to be sure that their assets are not being used to finance activities that are destructive to the environment and violate human rights. the eu's role in the world economy is to provide a framework for the development of the world economy. this is how we make a difference and organize a green deal that is not only valid within europe, but also meets our global responsibilities. many companies share the view that responsibly produced goods are not a nice tohave for marketing reasons, but a necessity for the survival of our planet. the legal framework outlined here would support companies that are already doing business responsibly. at the same time, it would create a level playing field for those who have so far profited at the expense of nature and people. the european parliament has therefore this week the opportunity to put pressure on the commission and to submit an ambitious proposal. ursula von der leyen said in her candidacy speech that she would take any legislation from parliament seriously if we supported it. parliament should call on them today and remind them of that promise. and we should today include an ambitious proposal in the work of mr sinkevičius so that we do not have a bitter aftertaste when we enjoy chocolate or coffee and that we take a global leadership role in europe against deforestation, for nature conservation and the protection of human rights. and that is what we have the opportunity to do today. please support the motion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the speed and extent at which we are losing forest areas around the world is staggering and highly dangerous. we in the eu are contributing to this destruction by consuming soy, palm oil and meat. even though we are only 10% of the population, we are clear: we must act, we must reverse this trend, we must protect forest areas! the present draft of a new eu legal framework, which we agreed together in the green deal resolution, is a step in the right direction. we want to make it possible to trace the entire supply chain of products that are particularly harmful to forests, in particular the place where the product comes from. we want to make sure it doesn't come from an area that's been cleared for forest. if we can get such a framework for all companies that want to bring their products to the european market in the future, then we will have made a real step forward in our responsibility as europeans to protect forests worldwide. but, ladies and gentlemen, for this, we need the corporations as partners, because the state cannot monitor every tree and every farmer. we need to take stronger action when the risk is greater. we need measures that are feasible and that can be implemented by small and mediumsized enterprises. we need an impact assessment in advance, we need legal certainty through clear guidelines. i think we are wise to draw on existing certification schemes, improve and standardise them where necessary, and ideally to label them 'eu-audited'. we've made a lot of progress on the environment committee. it is not just the forest that must be protected, but also human rights, especially the rights of indigenous peoples. that is right, because we must also face up to this responsibility. but we should not be back door fact-finding and circumventing the committees in charge in formulating the due diligence obligations that this report is supposed to do. ladies and gentlemen, this new legal framework is accompanied by the great hope and expectation that we will significantly reduce deforestation due to consumption in the eu and thus set the standard for the other 90% of consumers worldwide. it is therefore very important that we put the measures in place now and that they act quickly.
mr president, a surface bigger than switzerland is lost to deforestation worldwide every year. as europeans, we are sadly jointly responsible every day for deforestation, for an incredible loss of biodiversity, for speeding up climate change, and for harming the rights of indigenous people – for example, when we simply order a ham sandwich at the station, and so maybe consume meat from animals fed with soy planted on illegally—logged forest soil. no wooden product sold in europe should come from illicit sources. no product that indirectly results from illegal logging should be imported. we know the mechanism that can help: mandatory due diligence for all enterprises in our common market. people in europe know that forests are the lungs of our planet. so let’s act now.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, when operation sophia, the one that was actually still allowed to do search and rescue in the mediterranean, was launched in 2015, there were long discussions about the operation plans because it was different, a new mission. most of the discussion was about what kind of weapons this mission would need to overpower people on the boats and what kind of specific training to do that. at some point, it was a woman who asked about sanitary napkins and diapers because there would be women and small children on the boats and they would be on the ships with us for quite some days. in the end, the sanitary napkins and the diapers were used much more than the weapons. this example just shows how more diversity leads to better decisions and, yes, sometimes it is that stereotypical. the same is true when we speak about peace negotiations because peace deals last longer if women are involved, because societies are more peaceful if they are gender equal, but still to this day negotiation tables and the whole field of peace and security is a male domain. i can’t even remember how many rooms i walked into in the last 15 years where i was the only woman, either being ignored or stared at curiously. that’s why we dedicated large parts of this report to our own eu institutions and our own eu budget because there we actually have 100% of the power to change it and no excuses. that’s why we ask for 50% of women in csdp missions in our own services. that’s why we want a specific part of the foreign budget to go into projects that empower women and girls to claim their spot because they know how it works. there was an amazing spirit during our negotiations in the committee because i think we all agree that we want an eu foreign policy that is for everybody. but now it’s time to change the reality out there and to really speed things up on women, peace and security. that’s why, ms urpilainen, but also mr borrell and the whole commission, you had better come up with an ambitious gender action plan towards the end of this year.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today we are discussing the report on equality between men and women in the context of foreign and security policy. so i think this headline is a scandal, because we are talking about men and women and we have forgotten the differences so this is completely politically incorrect! i am glad that i have found, after reading the report in depth, that the different genders and sexual orientations play a very important role. how else could foreign and security policy be understood, it is self-evident. the report also stresses the need for a feminist foreign and security policy. it is also very important, of course, that we have a gender-specific asylum and migration policy. and of course, we're also facing the ultimate adversary -- climate change. we're learning that climate change is particularly bad for women, because it's affecting women and girls in particular. when i look at the women activists of fridays for future, i get the impression that there are many girls who are active, and they come from very good families, they are rich, like the descendants of the reemtsma shipping family. but i can't figure it out. why are girls and rich girls especially so affected? and what about climate change? i've met many women in my life, and most of them like it warm because women get cold. allow me this little fun, because i can't stand all the madness. the only thing that matters is creating good-paying jobs for women and for diversity. it is a matter of public service, and that must be stopped! enough with this ideological madness!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the trafficking of nationals, as practiced by cyprus, malta and other eu countries, is a gateway for rich criminals to enter the eu. interpol has determined that these passports, in addition to money laundering, are also -- and i quote -- "very valuable to terrorists and international criminals who use them to cross borders undetected". a parallel to eu migration policy is obvious. while the less wealthy enter the eu by throwing away their own passport and then, as is often the case, by stealing multiple identities, in the case of the golden passports, it is the rich who enter the eu by acquiring a passport. both are illegal, but only one seems to bother the eu, the other is promoted. as long as the eu cannot enforce its laws across europe, protest is just one a pathetic hypocrisy. both the trade in passports and the entry without a passport are prohibited.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not i am grateful for your presentation. ladies and gentlemen, the energy union could have been, or could be, a project that would bring the benefits of eu-wide cooperation between member states to the attention of citizens and that would finally take the wind out of the sails of the critics of the brussels moloch, myself for example. the commission is unfortunately, and sometimes without any plan or purpose, playing the holier-than-thou game of bingo with the words of ideologues who are out of touch with the world, rather than dealing with the real problems of citizens and businesses - in other words, rather than pursuing real policy. security of supply, efficiency and sustainability have been the three-pronged energy policy of recent decades, and indeed these terms are naturally also found within the energy union project. paper is patient, and reality speaks a different language. in the last ten years, the price of electricity for private households in germany has risen by almost 28%, network charges by 26%, and taxes and levies by a whopping 65%. the bild newspaper is already headlining a heating cost shock next year, even though gasoline and diesel prices will explode due to rising taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's financial interests. the frequency of near-blackouts has also increased rapidly in recent years, with the increase in the green energy that was previously mentioned. germany, for example, was increasingly forced to import electricity from neighboring countries, often at horrendous costs. so there is no question of security of supply. and what about the much-vaunted sustainability? that's another word that's been dropped from the vocabulary again and again today. in germany alone, 6,000 wind turbines will be shut down this year. this produces up to 4 million tonnes of waste, some of which is toxic and difficult to dispose of. the same is true for solar energy, where we can expect to see about 2.6 million tons of scrap by 2035. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is time that we in this house finally acknowledged that our solidarity and responsibility must be with the citizens and not with the commission and the spirit of the times.
(introduction to speech with microphone off) ... we are here today. i would like to focus on the role of renewable energy: we have three pieces of good news, which are also in your report. firstly, renewables now provide more than 20% of final energy in the european union. electricity generation from solar and wind has more than doubled from 2010 to 2018. and - perhaps most importantly for some in this house - renewables are superior to fossil fuels in terms of value and job creation. but: member states' enlargement targets are absolutely not enough to reduce our emissions sufficiently by 2030, and that is why we need a huge joint effort. and many citizens know this and are ready to do so. and so i ask you, mrs simson, here today, please ensure that the rights for citizens' energy enshrined in the clean energy package are implemented quickly and effectively in all member states. then we have a real energy union, unleashing renewables, democratizing energy supply, securing local value creation and achieving our climate goals.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. welcome back, you two. it seems that the fridays for future demonstrations have disappeared from the front pages of the tabloids, but their demands are still echoing in the union's daily business. what madness must we as policymakers have to further fuel the exogenous shock of the global pandemic, which is not yet fully understood, by the green deal? we are talking about alignment with the green deal wonderful words! they sell the much-vaunted green revolution here to the citizens as the european men on the moon project, as an absolute necessity now with co2 reductions of 55 or 60%, no matter, without any impact assessments of what these figures will actually do to our industry and society. already today the price of electricity for our industry in germany is almost three times as high as in the usa, and it will continue to rise. this will cost us competitiveness and, in the end, of course, prosperity. the commission knows this, and that is why one absurd idea is supplemented by another absurd idea. the green deal, for example, through the carbon border adjustment mechanism or, as we have just heard today, through the withdrawal from the ect. we have condemned for years in the eu other countries for protectionism and isolationism, but now we are practicing it ourselves. commissioner, you spoke earlier about your belief in the green deal. believing is fine, but what are the numbers? what will these measures actually cost us in the end?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, whenever i speak to citizens about the energy charter treaty they are shocked. the energy charter treaty allows investors to bring eu member states in front of private arbitration panels because those governments want to fulfil the requirements of the paris agreement. the energy charter treaty makes governments pay billions of taxpayers’ money just because they want to fight the climate crisis and implement the green deal. and does this sound completely insane? yes, it does, but it is the truth and the energy charter treaty is the embodiment of a fossil era that has to come to an end. and this is why the reform by the commission is so overdue and also welcomed. but i have two major concerns to bring before the commissioner. first, we need an effective reform. so the commission must delete fossil fuels from the definition of economic activities and thus end the protection of fossil fuels. and second, we have to face the reality. an effective reform is very unlikely, given the anonymity required. so i urge the commission to set a clear deadline and prepare for leaving the treaty. and i know, madam commissioner, you will come now with a sunset clause. yes, the sunset clause is bad; it protects investment for another 20 years if we leave the energy charter treaty now. but better leaving earlier than later. at the very least, we need to end inner eu application and thus eliminate already half of the cases. i count on your support.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. those who suffer most from the covid crisis should be the ones who benefit most from the eu budget. we are in the middle of a dramatic pandemic. almost all of europe, including parts of this parliament, are in lockdown, and the lesson from covid should be that we collectively invest more in our public health system. so we were shocked to hear after the summit that the heads of state and government were going to cut back on health care. instead of cutting back on health, we are now tripling the european health programme, and i think that is a very central success that we have achieved together here in the european parliament. the cultural and creative industries have also been hit very hard by the covid crisis. we see that in all our countries, theaters and cinemas have to close, many tours are canceled, artists are struggling to survive. and so it's more than just a signal that we've negotiated over 600 million more for the creative europe programme. but covid is also a global crisis. poorer countries outside the eu do not have the same capacity to respond to the crisis as we have in the european union. and so it is good and right that we have mobilised 1.5 billion euros for other countries to contribute to global development. but covid is also a crisis of democracy, especially when we see what's happening in poland, what's happening in hungary, and what's happening in many other countries. that is why it is absolutely right and sensible that we now have an instrument that makes it more difficult for democracy-destroyers like viktor orbán to continue with their policies as they have done so far. and it is good and right that we will double the program "rights and values" to also support ngos "democracy" ngos, lgbti organizations, but also organizations fighting for equality, to lead this fight on the ground. we have to fight all the crises, and the biggest crisis is still the climate crisis. and although this budget decision, which we shall be adopting in a few weeks' time, will not solve everything, we have succeeded in making binding the incorporation of important instruments in the budgetary objective: the principle of harm prevention, a binding biodiversity quota, which will lead to biodiversity not simply being taken more into account in the budget, but to nature conservation becoming a budgetary objective in its own right. these achievements are visible, and i would like to thank my colleagues on the negotiating team and, above all, our staff, without whom none of this would have been possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think we have seen clearly in these negotiations that only the european parliament is really fighting for european priorities. 16 billion more for important european tasks, for erasmus, for students, for young people in europe, for research. and we have seen in the last few days with the development of the vaccine how important research is, for digitisation, because we have also realized in this crisis how important this is and how much we are left behind compared to china and the usa. the member states - as we saw at the summit - are clearly only fighting for their own interests. it's just a matter of how much you put in and how much you get out. if we really want to make europe fit for the future, we must focus more on what we need collectively for the future. and the european parliament has done a lot of work on this, as much as possible. but we must also say: at the conference on the future of europe we must talk about how we can do even more for the future of europe. and we have successfully tackled a second issue, which is the rule of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and since a speaker from the french right right right said just now that there are no common values and the rule of law, that is different in each country and that depends on traditions and so on, i want to say very clearly that there are very clear common european values in europe, and each member state has committed itself to them when it joined the european union. it is not that some people from europe come and say you must now adhere to some values. we have jointly defined them in article 2 and we will defend them here, and this european parliament has fought for them, ladies and gentlemen. we must be clear: we have achieved a great deal. we have finally made sure that the rule of law is reflected in this regulation and that this was not just a small addition, as the council wanted, but that we were actually protecting the independence of the judiciary once again. we have linked it to the annual rule of law report to bring together the different instruments there. and we have also made sure that the recipients of the funds are protected, because in the end we do not want to punish ordinary citizens, but governments that do not adhere to european values. we've come a long way in that regard. this mechanism is not what we dreamed of. but it is more than i, for example, have dared to hope for in the meantime, because the negotiations with this council have been really difficult. it was as if viktor orbán was sitting at the negotiating table. and to him who is still threatening to stop this whole budget and everything because of the rule of law, i want to say one thing very clearly: if he does that, he clearly shows that he does not care about the future of europe, the future of his country and its citizens, but only about his corrupt friends. we won't let that happen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we'll push for that.
mr president, you might have noticed that two governments – hungary and poland – are fuming since last thursday, since we struck this historic deal on the rule of law conditionality. the polish minister has been speaking of political, cultural and economic colonisation, and hungary goes a step further, as always, and speaks of the execution of the soros plan. what a bizarre fantasy land these people live in. hungary and poland are among the biggest recipients of eu funds. they have profited to the tune of eur 180 billion of european solidarity since they acceded to the european union and now, at this moment, where millions of citizens, where thousands of businesses need a lifeline from us and are expecting european solidarity, this is the moment that they threaten to block the whole package, because kaczyński wants to continue to throw out judges that he doesn’t like and because orbán wants to keep lining his own pockets. i think one thing is pretty obvious: that those that are screaming the loudest now about this are the ones that have to fear the most from this new conditionality. just last night, the hungarian minister, as some colleagues have referred to, has put forward new constitutional changes that would make it impossible for the opposition to run in a coordinated fashion. in poland, we have an ecj ruling that this so—called disciplinary chamber should cease to exist, but it continues to operate and to put judges out of work. for years we have seen how the situation is deteriorating. commissioner hahn, i was recently in hungary. i visited klub radio, which is about to lose its frequency – the last independent radio station in hungary. there are thousands of people in poland on the street because they lost the independence of the judiciary. these citizens do not have the time to wait. they don’t have the time to wait for another rule of law report, another dialogue, we need to act. when this enters into force on 1 january, we don’t have a minute to lose, it’s time to act.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today is a good day for the european union and a very successful day for the european parliament. after many citizens were skeptical at the beginning of the pandemic that the eu was doing too little too slowly, we are now proving that there is a cross-border, european, powerful response to this pandemic in the interest of citizens. this will strengthen confidence in the eu, i am sure. but there is another point, or one which is contained in it, which is even more essential for confidence in the european union. the acceptance of the eu has long suffered from the fact that there are governments in member states which have moved far from the common ground. we are sending a strong signal here too with the rule of law conditionality. the most important signal is that all member states are equally committed to the values set out in article 2. no member state can claim to have its own interpretation of these values. we know the situation, some governments confuse rule of law with rule by law. they think that because they have a majority they can do and let do whatever they want, make the judiciary dependent on them, subjugate the media, curtail the rights of the opposition, thus making any democratic control impossible. it is good that the eu is making a statement. i am particularly grateful that the full scope of article 2 is covered, that the copenhagen criteria are also mentioned and that the preventive nature of the mechanism is emphasised. unity in diversity - yes, we can all design our systems differently, but we all stand on the ground of article 2 and the final decision is taken by one, which means the rule of law, and that is the european court of justice. and what was particularly important for social democracy was that in the end it was not the recipients of aid, not the cities and municipalities, the companies, the cultural workers, the students, the research institutions, but the governments that were sanctioned. the money must reach the right people and the commission must ensure that it does. it didn't turn out the way we wanted it to, it's not ideal. there is still much to criticize, but overall it is a great success, a good day for the european union and a successful day for parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this budgetary package represents european solidarity in action with the countries most affected by covid, but also solidarity between generations, since we are investing a large part of this package in climate protection, but also solidarity with the people most affected by the crisis, namely women. the parliament's position on the structural funds calls for clear gender equality checks to show the impact of individual measures and projects on women and men. i call on all governments to stand up for women in the council and to support this demand. and i also very much welcome the fact that the commission will now for the first time develop a methodology for a gender-balanced eu budget, which we will have from 2023. finally, the rule of law mechanism: i hope that this important instrument can support the women who have been most active in europe in recent weeks in defending fundamental rights, namely the women of poland. women of europe, women of poland, we have your back!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, there is an advantage to speaking so late that everything has been said and you can summarize. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. so a very warm thank you to all those who were directly involved! i would like to take this opportunity to point out that we are not yet at the finish line, but there is still a lot to do. it has been said many times that in the coming days we will be experiencing the rule of law from the outside, that we must demonstrate what we have demonstrated as a parliament and why we have been so successful, namely unity and self-confidence. we will have to be united and confident to repel these attacks, and that will continue for the next few years. i will just mention the issue of own resources. the issue is not settled, but it will be until the next parliamentary term that we will pursue this issue further. we must be confident and united there too. and let's not kid ourselves, we're at a real fork in the road. we are in debt for the first time as the european union, and this has the potential to change the european union as a whole. this is a matter for discussion, not by a few, but by the whole of parliament. and so i also expect the president to have this debate in this important situation that we're in right now and to reconsider this restrictive approach. we must now be able to function in parliament - and that is what i expect from the president - namely, unity and confidence. we must also have this public discourse, because it is no use patting each other on the back. we have not achieved this success for ourselves, but for the citizens of europe. and we need to make that much clearer.
the next item is the report by mr pierre larrouturou and mr olivier chastel on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021 - all items (2020/1998 ((bud)) (a9-0206/2020). i would like to inform you that, as always, no spontaneous speeches, no blue cards or any comments on the rules of procedure will be accepted in any of the debates of this sitting. the commission will also be able to provide information on the internet from parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think that these regulations now, that you can only speak in one or two places in your country, here, are very, very restrictive. and i hope that we can find another solution here soon and return to the plenary as we are accustomed to. this is really a de facto exclusion of one of the members from parliament, and how is the work to be done? i see a big problem here and i really cannot help but quote my group: 'television participation is unfortunately appropriate and not a suitable substitute for actual hearings and debates.' we can't afford to be in this for long. so i ask that we really take this point to heart. on the one hand, this disempowerment of parliament is accompanied by a certain self-empowerment of parliament when it comes to the budget. why do i call it that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can't afford to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the budgetary committee should normally also ensure that the money is used sparingly and economically. the opposite is happening here: you take advantage of the existing crises - which unfortunately exist - and in a way, in the winds of these crises, you hang on to them and demand more and more and more money and really blow up this budget until it is almost unbearable and it bursts. and this is a big problem. and another problem that is not addressed is the question: where do you get the money? unfortunately, the revenue will not be available next year, but the 46 billion that mrs marques, or whoever she was, mentioned will not be available for five years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. do you really think that this money will fund all the programs you're trying to reintroduce? that's not possible. we must return to a sound, normal way of managing our finances. we must do again what a budgetary legislator is supposed to do: he must control the commission, he must cut the council's budget, he must make sure that the money stays in his pocket, otherwise he will be sent back to the drawing board. at the latest next year - a super-election year in germany - the voter will decide that if he feels the hole in my house, in my pocket, then i will no longer have confidence in this parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the coronavirus pandemic is a disaster for many, an individual disaster, but it's a challenge for all of us, and it's also a challenge for democracy. it places a great deal of responsibility on those who have to decide what actions we need to take to contain this pandemic. all member states have taken action, most of them declaring a form of emergency. these measures are very different and we have produced a detailed report on them in the rule of law monitoring group, chaired by sophie int veld, who will be speaking shortly. it is really very worth reading. there are the usual suspects - that's what i'll call them - who are taking advantage of the situation to restrict fundamental rights far beyond what is necessary. we have seen in hungary, for example, that there has been a rather unabashed access to the rights of parliament. and in poland, attempts have been made to restrict the right to vote. but in almost all countries there are lively debates about this, as there are here, about what is appropriate and what is not appropriate in almost all countries. and that is good and right, because that is the essence of democracy. we are only allowed to interfere with fundamental rights to the extent that is absolutely necessary. all measures must be proportionate, they must be limited in time, they must be clearly defined and they must be subject to parliamentary and judicial control. and then there 's ... (interrupted incomprehensible call) any member of parliament can come here. (interrupted incomprehensible call) no one is forbidden to come here. i don't know what you want from me right now, but no one is forbidden to come here. and then, of course, we have to look at particularly vulnerable groups. we know that domestic violence against women and children is on the rise. we know that minorities have been further restricted, some have been made scapegoats. so, times of crisis for democracy too. we all need to ensure that fundamental rights are protected here and at national level.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. whenever the covid situation in hungary becomes particularly acute, viktor orbán looks below the belt line of his citizens. in may this year, it was the orbán government that deemed it urgent to remove the recognition of transgender people from identity cards. well, in the middle of the second wave, in the middle of the wave, it's about making it constitutional that only christian gender images are okay in families. we know these tricks from the totalitarianism of russia and turkey. it's always about distracting your own citizens from your own failures. if not bread, then at least the games that's what this race to the top is at the expense of the minorities: judit varga, viktor orbàn, lászló trócsányi. ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, do you have nothing better to do? we have better things to do, ladies and gentlemen. for months this parliament has been negotiating reconstruction funds, including for hungary. but this year, 2020, is not only about the future of our economy, it's about the future of our democracy. because fair-weather democracy is something anyone can do. but to continue to work and live in a democracy at the end of a crisis is the great art of freedom and enlightenment. we have been working on this every week since the crisis started in the freedom of exclusion monitoring group, and we have seen how freedom of expression and freedom of the press have been restricted in many countries - hungary, italy, romania - how an app has become mandatory in poland, how people have been observed, how almost all countries have abolished the right to asylum, and how hostility towards asians or closures of roma settlements have been introduced, for example in bulgaria. with this resolution we make it clear that times of crisis require crisis instruments. but we also say very clearly: covid times are not anything-goes times. fundamental rights will remain, and we as the european parliament will ensure that they do.
madam speaker, ladies and gentlemen, do you know what is more powerful than the coronavirus? it's called love. the love of the people who are on the front lines and working for us. this debate was supposed to be about basic rights, and do you know how many health care workers have taken their vacation in the last few days? do you know how many paramedics who work on the front lines every day, like me, have turned a blind eye to people because people are dying? people die every day, and no one asks the paramedics if they have time to cry, no one asks if they have time to spend with their families, no one asks if they have time to go shopping. they go to work, they go to work with covid-19, with a fever, they go to work on saturdays and sundays, they serve 12-hour shifts. and i have never heard, not once in this room, anyone say to the health workers in the european union, "thank you". colleagues, we did not cause the coronavirus. it's the chinese flu, china didn't inform us, we can only call after we have a proper examination here. but right now, if we're talking about rights, let's talk about the rights of those who are on the front lines, those who deserve it the most. and to the nurses and all those who are helping, i thank you from the bottom of my heart, on behalf of the whole parliament and on behalf of all of us.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many colleagues have already raised the question: the majority of parliaments in the world have found solutions that uphold the rule of law, in line with the spirit of this resolution. this is not the case for the european parliament. the european parliament has become a free-rule area. the rule of law is no longer in place. the rules of procedure have been prohibited in principle and the current breach of rule 156 has already been mentioned. the president decided on 27 october to hold the meetings only by remote means. there is no legal basis for this. the fact that we're gathered here today, however, grotesquely ignores the president's decision, but it still stands. because it was never taken back. this is pure arbitrariness. we do not know whether the plenary session will take place in november or not. actually, after the ruling, no one should be here today. ladies and gentlemen, if we do not defend ourselves against this decision of the president of the european parliament of 27 october, if we do not take the legal way if necessary, if we do not maintain this plenary, the heart of parliamentary democracy, the centre of european public life, then we will lose all credibility in europe and the world on the question of the rule of law. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's sad that it took a pandemic to realize that we need a shared health program. and in this health program, which is very good, i miss the consistent approach of "health", because only in a healthy environment are there healthy people. i want to focus on point seven, which is the threat of antibiotic-resistant germs. it's addressed, but in my opinion, it's way too hesitant. i am missing, for example, stricter rules on animal husbandry. the example of sweden shows that with more animal welfare comes much less antibiotic use. and i urge you to finally work towards incorporating environmental criteria into good manufacturing practice (gmp), which is the norm worldwide. at present, indian factories are dumping untreated wastewater into rivers. it's only a matter of time before we have vicious antibiotic-resistant germs in our midst that could trigger the next pandemic. please act very quickly!
in writing. the commission is taking a welcome step in the right direction with the eu4health programme, but there are gaps in the areas of health care, so that medical treatment is not necessary because of an unhealthy lifestyle. unfortunately, this is hardly talked about, let alone set as a goal. the causes of disease must be tackled, not the symptoms. i would like to give a few examples from the fields of sports promotion and school education. by recognising the importance of gyms as a system and by enhancing the importance of school sports and avoiding corresponding hours of inactivity, especially in view of the lack of physical activity among pupils, a significant increase in health in their lives can be achieved, not only for the pupils but also for their future. in addition, it can be used to increase education in healthy and balanced nutrition in schools and in the general population. the aim must be to convince citizens of a healthy lifestyle from an early age and to inform them accordingly about the consequences of an unhealthy diet. this will gradually improve the health of the general population and relieve the burden on the health system.
in writing. the budget of the eu health programme (eu4health) has been increased to €5.1 billion by the recent provisional agreement between the european parliament and the european council. with an initial budget of €9.4 billion, this programme was virtually sacrificed by the council, which reduced the budget to just €1.7 billion. the european parliament has not accepted this regression in any way, as the health of european citizens must remain our priority. i continue to support the efforts of the european legislator to ensure a satisfactory budget to support measures to reform and strengthen national health systems. with the largest health budget ever, we will be able to deliver on measures to strengthen prevention, increase health systems' resilience, reduce inequalities in access to health and digitise health. my amendments aimed to improve equal access to health care, to modern treatments, medicines and equipment, and to step up prevention actions. i have contributed significantly to better implementation of the programme by calling for annual programming and clear criteria for granting funding.
in writing. for the first time, the eu is laying the foundations for a european health programme. a set of actions to pool available resources at european level to generate solutions for all member states, reduce inequalities and increase the quality of the medical process. as early as 2014, we publicly called for the creation of such a program. we need cooperation between member states, common solutions and more investment to create a health union. we need to raise our ambition. the european commission proposed a substantial allocation, but the council reduced the amount. investing in health must become a priority for building a society in which european citizens have access to the best health facilities. it is essential that these financial resources be invested in improving infrastructure, in training medical staff, in improving the quality of medical care, in research, but also in creating cooperation mechanisms, such as the creation of joint medical units at european level for emergency situations or in situations where member states are facing difficulties. the proposal to create the blue medical corps, built on the positive example given by romanian doctors who went to italy during the pandemic, can show again that together we are stronger.
in writing. i have long been a strong advocate of closer eu health cooperation and of a communicable diseases regulation that would set common criteria at eu level for the control, treatment and prevention of communicable diseases. it is important that we have common criteria at eu level for the monitoring, prevention and control of communicable diseases. the new regulation would be science-based and would strengthen the resources and mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). the regulation should also set a minimum level of investment in health to ensure that member states' health systems are well prepared for future pandemics. the eu4health programme is a step in the right direction. it is important that the programme enables us to prepare more thoroughly for significant cross-border health threats. member states alone cannot act effectively enough to protect citizens. health is a global issue, and so should be the solutions we seek. we must also not turn a blind eye to future health threats that need to be proactively addressed, such as antibiotic resistance and the global health challenges it poses.
in writing. union action in the field of health is limited by the lack of contracts, but the union should pursue a coherent public health strategy to respond to existing epidemics, taking into account regional and national specificities. the union should help member states to reduce inequalities in healthcare systems and to ensure universal health coverage, to address healthcare-associated infections, to address vulnerable groups such as child, infant and maternal care, ageing populations, chronic diseases and disease prevention, and to promote healthy lifestyles, provide prevention services and prepare health systems for emerging technologies. the experience gained during the covid-19 crisis has demonstrated the need for further decisive action at union level to support cooperation and coordination of action between member states, in particular neighbouring regions, as well as between public authorities and relevant stakeholders. this cooperation should contribute to preparing for and controlling the transboundary spread of serious infectious diseases in humans, to facilitating the development and availability of products for the prevention and treatment of diseases, and to tackling other serious cross-border health threats. it would also help to protect and improve the health and well-being of all union citizens. however, it should be borne in mind that these decisions must be agreed with the member states and only be submitted with their consent. solidarity and unity are principles of the union and the health programme should ensure a coherent union approach to the elimination of cross-border threats to health.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the transparency of the procurement of and access to covid-19 vaccines (2020/2843 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i’m not going to repeat what i have already been saying, that we have been witnessing with great concern increasingly rapid infection rates and loss of life across the eu. every day when we listen to the news and we hear in all our countries the number of people who have been admitted to hospitals to intensive care, the number of people who lose their lives, we understand that we need to do everything possible, and this is what we have been doing as a commission from the very beginning. vaccination is not going to be a magic solution that will allow us to go back to our everyday lives overnight. unfortunately, for covid—19 there is really no silver bullet and it is important that when we communicate to citizens, we are open and frank about this. but vaccinations, once we have a safe and effective vaccine, will play a crucial role. it will play a crucial role in saving lives, in containing the pandemic, in protecting our health systems and, of course, in restoring our economy. it will provide our citizens with a sense of hope and predictability. predictability is something that we often take for granted, but what we have been living with in the last 10 months is the uncertainty of not knowing what the next day will hold. on monday, we saw financial markets reacting with glee to the encouraging announcements from one of the vaccine developers. but i also saw something else, i saw the element of hope that european union citizens felt with this news. we are therefore doing everything we can to ensure that vaccines are produced as quickly and as safely as possible. to maximise our chances of success, we have been working very intensively to have a diverse, common eu portfolio of vaccines against covid—19 as soon as possible and developed using different technologies. the negotiations with companies have been intensive and inclusive, carried out with and for member states. to date, we have signed three contracts, and are about to sign the fourth with pfizer/biontech. our negotiations are also advanced with another two companies and exploratory talks are ongoing with a number of producers. i have often been asked over the last few days, and i want to reassure you, that once a vaccine becomes available, all member states will have equal access to the available doses at the same time, according to the agreements we have concluded. now i fully recognise the importance of transparency in this process. due to the highly competitive nature of this global market, the commission is legally not able to disclose the information contained in the contracts. non—disclosure clauses are a standard feature of these agreements that vaccine developers have also concluded with other countries. this is necessary to protect these sensitive negotiations and business—related information, such as financial information, development and production plans. the companies require that such sensitive business information remains confidential between the signatories of the contract. the commission, therefore, cannot really decide to unilaterally disclose them without the consent of all involved parties. but these are rules that also protect the tendering process and we fully abide by them, not for the reasons linked to contractors’ commercial interests, but also because we do not want to weaken the position of the commission in the negotiations. we need to be extremely careful during these negotiations, so that we do not have companies leading to cherry—picking on the best conditions. so let me conclude by addressing some of the worries that i’m sure i will hear about today and i have heard over the past weeks. safety: safety is a fundamental requirement for any vaccine to be deployed in the eu. the safety of our citizens is a top priority and it is not negotiable for us. the european medicines agency will be doing everything possible once any vaccine submits for authorisation, to ensure that the safety dimension is covered. let me stress this: we all need to have the same messaging because we see a lot of vaccination hesitancy. this has been ongoing before covid—19 with vaccination hesitancy to do with children’s diseases, with measles, and we cannot afford to encourage this. so, what we want to do is have common communication and assure citizens that we will not lower the bar in terms of safety at any cost. secondly, the agreements with the vaccine developers do not change or derogate from the eu legislation and rules on liability. finally, we are acting in full compliance with all the applicable rules regarding financial management and are confident that the process will stand any future review or audit. i look forward to hearing this debate. i’m sure it is going to be a very lively one. i can assure you that over the last five to six months we have been working 24/7 on this and we need to continue to do this because it is possibly the only way we have out of this pandemic, but not at the cost of reducing safety concerns for citizens. i will never stop saying that. thank you for your patience.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not this is a good week for the people of the european union. the first serious vaccine in the world has been developed in europe, is being produced in europe, and with funds from three different european union funds. of course, we have to look closely, and the ema has yet to verify the results, but there is reason for hope. i know the company biontech, and i think they're very serious. and we have a contract. the europeans are getting the vaccine. i would like to thank mrs kyriakides, mrs gallina and mr spahn, who have been very active. i have three political messages for you today: the first one to the right here in the house and elsewhere, who are always pushing against everything foreign. the founder of biontech came to germany from turkey at the age of four, and it's time to recognize the contribution of migrants to our society, to progress. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to speak personally to michele rivasi, tilly metz, jutta paulus. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and thirdly, to all those who are against the coronavirus measures: we have a light at the end of the tunnel, and now it would be really tragic if we continue to see almost 4,000 people die from the virus as we did yesterday. we stick together, we keep our distance! perseverance and rule-keeping are the order of the day more than ever.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, allow me to thank stella kyriakides for her work, your good work, commissioner. we are in the middle of the second wave of the covid pandemic and the race for a safe and effective vaccine has never been more urgent. researchers all around europe – and the rest of the world – are working at an impressive speed to develop a safe and effective vaccine. just the other day we received very promising results on a potential vaccine which is still undergoing clinical trials in testing phase 3. although it is still too early to say for certain, the indicative results give some perspective for a return to life without fear of the virus. even though i hear, stella, what you say – we must still take care and we need to know that we still need the measures – but still this is promising. once again it shows the great potential of science. the commission has signed three advance purchase agreements with different companies. we agree with the assessment that we need a broad portfolio with vaccine producers. it is crucial also to ensure that advance purchase agreements are fully transparent. we demand that the following provisions in the contract are made public: the cost for the producers of the vaccine and the prices to be paid; where the vaccine will be produced; the access to the vaccine; and also the liability linked to possible damage caused by the vaccine. this is absolutely fundamental.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, many countries have already entered into commercial pre-purchase contracts for covid vaccines, in order to be reactive when bringing safe and effective vaccines to market. the european union has followed suit and pre-ordered 300 million doses from seven major laboratories with public money already paid. the negotiations are subject to presumptions of lack of clarity as to the negotiators, the terms of the contracts, the subject of the contract or possible collateral effects. the negotiators: there are seven, not all of them are known, and at least one had high-level ties to the pharmaceutical industry. knowing a man's heart is one thing. having conflicts of interest is another. the terms of the contracts. you have just said, commissioner, that the negotiations must remain confidential. i will only remind you that you are our representative, the european taxpayer. they are therefore carried out in an accelerated manner and on the terms of the pharmaceutical industry. there are conditions for compensation in case of financial losses and, above all, an exemption from any responsibility of the laboratories in case of side effects of vaccines. and the commission itself refuses to accept any responsibility for health, at the risk of blocking maximum acceptance. the subject of the contract is itself tainted with opacity. despite recent announcements of a vaccine available, no one knows when, how or where vaccination campaigns could be launched. finally, the side effects. by definition, they are now unpredictable. the whole pharmacy sector - and thanks to public money, let us recall this again - is the subject of unprecedented stock market speculation. but above all, the just and necessary respect for intellectual property rights should not lead to unaffordable prices and prevent poor countries from having access to the vaccine. it would prolong the epidemic. hiv was only really contained when the whole world, or almost the whole world, had access to triple therapy.
for the greens/efa group mr president, as you know, there is a lot of expectation and fear on the part of citizens about the future covid-19 vaccine, and it is our role as european representatives to reassure them. but how do you expect us to do that if you don't give us the information we need to do that? it is the principle of good cooperation between the commission and parliament that is at stake, and our right to information is being flouted. i therefore urge you to address this as soon as possible and to make public the contracts with industry, as well as to do your best to publish the data from clinical trials before the future vaccines are put on the market. this is essential to ensure citizens' confidence in the union's actions and in this future vaccine. we must be exemplary in managing this crisis and the duty of transparency is part of that.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not it's time we had a vaccine. it looks like it. in the spring, hopefully, vaccination will be allowed to begin. but vaccinations alone are not enough. we must not forget that. because we need effective therapies, effective medicines. the vaccine itself gives a false sense of security. many citizens will not be vaccinated. you have rightly recognised that, commissioner, because there are people out there who are going to screw it up, screw it up, whatever. we need to have an awareness campaign and so on. we must regulate and discuss urgent matters such as patent protection. is there a universal public service in this country? because we pulverized the funds into research. we have a right to patent protection, too, do we not? because we need factories, even in the poorer countries. we need short-haul, which means manufacturing facilities around the world that make vaccines. and the medication: we have to discuss and discuss a lot of things here. we must discuss the ethical, legal and medical implications of vaccination. what citizen? where do we start? are we going to follow the who recommendation? and, and, and. but that requires a parliament that is able to act. and now i 'll make it very short: i call on the president to restore the operational capacity of this parliament. the daily allowance, the travel allowance, so that the members can come here and debate in a vibrant democracy. and i always make suggestions, we have made suggestions, for example, there are air purification filters, there are rapid tests. we put it in writing, no answers. i'm also still waiting for the legal basis for the deletion. we need a parliament that works in these times and not a president of parliament who prevents work. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i think we are all very happy that there are these positive signals today. and it is all the more important that we now also pursue a common, coordinated strategy when it comes to equitable distribution. the ecdc has already made some very good proposals on this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of workers is not compromised. these are people with pre-existing conditions, people with health limitations, like many disabled people, but also people in difficult housing conditions. i hope that the european union will find a good common approach. i must say something, mr liese: we have always been greens. i don't know, i haven't followed that. it must be clear what the billions of european taxpayers are spending on. and i am very pleased that mrs guteland and mr canfin and many others have also raised this issue. that's all we were about. we need transparency, because that's how trust is built.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr siegfried mureşan and mr paul tang, on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the 'investment plan for a sustainable europe: financing the green deal' (2020/2058 (ini)) (a9-0198/2020).
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. before i say anything about the funding of the green deal, i would first like to express my gratitude for being able to find refuge here in berlin on a cold november day in the liaison office (eplo). however, with all the sad developments that parliament is virtually de facto almost closed, this is one way to speak to you now. i am sorry to say this, but as i said, the eplo staff can do nothing about it, and they have shown me what is available here, that it is available, and the work they are doing here is good work, and i should like to stress that at this point. i would also like to congratulate the president of the commission on the terms she uses when she talks about the so-called green deal. first of all, the word "deal" always seemed to me to be a negative one. in my earlier work at the public prosecutor's office in mannheim, we locked up the dealers. and now, look, thirty years later, this word is suddenly a wonderful word that you can use and it's still given the adjective "green", with hope and so on. so, congratulations on making these terms into a miracle, almost a miracle bag. when you talk about the green deal today, and now you even say "new green deal", a new deal, you're also reminded of all the things from american history and all of this. really, so it's as good as it gets. what's the point? this is a billion euro you want to finance, and at the beginning we were talking about three billion. these are all air castles you're building here. how's that supposed to work? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is something i have to say: this is going too far. and we should not really be talking about financing the green deal, but about the financial impact on the citizens, on the individual. electricity prices will continue to rise, and we already have the highest electricity prices in germany today. the regulation is undermining entire industries and the loss of competitiveness vis-à-vis the other major players in the world is becoming more and more acute. this can't be the future! so we shouldn't be so afraid of climate change. climate change is a fact, not a question, and it's always been there. it was always the warm times that were the heyday of history. but what are you going to do now? i'd rather trust the word that says in genesis that from now on, seed and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night, shall not cease. and i would rather trust these promises of god than the utopian promises of today's climate religion.
i have to say, madam president, to stop the climate crisis, we need to change the economic rules of the game. we all know that our current financial and economic system is increasing resource consumption and exacerbating the climate crisis. that is why we must not measure public budgets solely by the level of debt. there are no debts on a dead planet. in future, it must be said that public budgets are only good if they are compatible with the paris agreement. it is therefore right that we will include clear climate targets and a binding biodiversity quota in the eu budget. this can also be a model for national public budgets. we must stop investing in climate change. airports, motorways, large fossil fuel infrastructure projects and climate-damaging agriculture - all need to be put to the test. and what applies to public investment must also apply to private investment. already, major insurance companies and financial institutions are moving away from fossil fuel subsidies. this is good, but we now also need a binding framework to make it easier for companies to act. we have to get off fossil fuel. we cannot afford to continue to extract fossil fuels like coal or gas for future generations. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr siegfried mureșan and mr paul tang, for their report. let us now work together to make our financial system the solution to the problem.
i have to say, madam president, the green deal is an ambitious economic programme for a social-ecological change in europe for the climate, for the environment and for people. the investment plan for a sustainable europe, including the just transition mechanism, aims to link sustainable social economies with the paris climate goals. and i am always amazed, also as rapporteur on two pillars of the just transition mechanism in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, to see again and again how much resistance, down to the smallest details, this clever green deal concept is torpedoed or delayed in parliament, in the council and also in the commission. the eu taxonomy regulation provides clear guidelines on what is sustainable, and we have a good, scalable tool. and there is no need to be so fussy about the application, just to give an example. if eu member states align their economies and public spending with the green deal, this is a great opportunity, and this push must come from the eu. the green deal is our big chance in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today and the final vote will be held tomorrow, friday 13 november. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. in january, the commission proposed its plan to finance the green deal to achieve a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. for something as complex as climate change, it would cost the comfortable round number of 1 trillion euros. that's a thousand billion. how fitting! to this end, half of the european multiannual budget, or over 500 billion, should be used for environmentally friendly investments. or at least to shady marketers who can sell their projects in brussels as green. to finance this madness, the eu needs its own budgetary capacity. which is now prohibited by the eu treaties. parliament proposes six new taxes to be levied by the eu and directly attributed to the eu. of course, a lot has changed since january. according to the commission's forecast, gdp will have decreased by 7,4% in 2020. in the euro area, almost 8%. this is well below the global economic downturn of 4.3%. people are already suffering from the lockdown. the social liabilities of this health crisis, the enormous costs of financing immigration, and the massive money creation that leads to higher asset prices are already burdening europeans. let's not put any more pressure on the citizens.
(after reading the results of the votes) the presidency of the council has informed me in writing that it takes note of the differences between the positions taken by parliament and the council on the draft budget for 2021 presented by the commission and that it is appropriate for me to convene the conciliation committee as provided for in article 314 (4) (c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the council statement will be included in the minutes of today's sitting. (the sitting was suspended at 1.19 p.m.)
we now move on to the second round of voting. we shall vote on the dossiers as stated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 2.30 to 3.45 p.m. the vote shall be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3:45. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 6.15 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 2.33 p.m.)
before the first of today's votes, i would like to give the floor to mr cristian-silviu buşoi, who, in accordance with rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, will be speaking on the referral back to the committee of his report on the union's action programme in the field of health ('eu4health') with a view to opening interinstitutional negotiations. this request will be put to the vote after the vote on the commission proposal.
rapporteur. – madam president, first i would like to thank all the colleagues from the european parliament for the vote yesterday on the amendments, and all the shadows, and in particular my coordinator peter liese, for all the support. the vote yesterday emphasised that with eur 5.1 billion the programme will not only deliver on future pandemics and health threats and make our health system more resilient, but will also contribute in synergy and complementarity with other eu policies to the establishment of the reserve of essential medicines and medical devices in times of crisis. i hope that the negotiations with the council will be very constructive and will finish before the end of the year in order that the programme will start to deliver for eu citizens, starting january 2021. therefore, i would like to request the referral back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations, under rule 59(4), for the eu4health programme.
we now come to the first round of voting for today. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 9.00 to 10.15. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote now until 10.15. the results of the vote will be announced at 12.45 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 9.03 a.m.)
i declare the sitting reopened and, before starting the second part-session of voting today, i would like to give the floor, in accordance with rule 59 (4), to mr josé manuel fernandes on the referral back to the commission for interinstitutional negotiations of his report on the creation of the investeu programme. i call mr josé manuel fernandes on behalf of the group of the european people's party.
as you say, mr president, i am asking that, in accordance with parliament's rules of procedure and as rapporteur for this important dossier, on which my colleague irene tinagli is also rapporteur, this dossier, investeu, be referred back to the joint committee on budgets and also to the committee on economic affairs, so that we can start the interinstitutional negotiations.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur members on their excellent work and this request will be put to the vote after the vote on the commission's proposal. i now call the second round of voting. we shall vote on the dossiers as stated in the agenda. the voting period will be from 2 to 3.15 p.m. the vote shall be taken in accordance with the same procedure as in previous voting periods. all votes shall be cast by roll call. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote until 3:15 p.m. the results of the second round of voting will be announced at 5.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 2.03 p.m.)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 13 november 2020.
let us now get down to business. the final draft agenda, as established by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157 of the rules of procedure, was distributed at its meeting on wednesday, 18 november 2020. i should like to inform the house that i have received several motions for resolutions and references to the rules of procedure and i shall give the floor to the members in the order in which questions are received.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you for the development of the past week. it is of central importance for democracy in europe that the plenary session of the european parliament remains open to in-person events. that doesn't mean we should be careless. but this is the place where we should discuss the big and sometimes the small questions of europeans. we need to improve our debate culture even more significantly after the pandemic. in addition, the rule of law must be fully guaranteed even in times of crisis. we expect this from the governments of the member states and we must set an example in the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rule of law also means that responsibilities are respected. mr president, you are a strong man according to the rules of procedure. neither decisions of the conference of presidents nor those of the bureau may justify derogations from the rules of procedure or the statute. i hope that we will come out of this situation stronger together, and i thank you very much.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the conclusion, unfortunately, is very simple: we use far too many resources, and we produce far too much waste. we're fueling global warming with it. and it is well known that if all people consumed as many resources as we do in europe, we would have already crossed all planetary boundaries. so this is about our own future, but it's also about the future of billions of people in the global south. they have contributed the least and suffer the most from global warming and pollution. the good news is, we all have the levers to shape our future differently. we just have to use it. the european union is the largest single market in the world. let us make sure that it also becomes the greenest, most sustainable and most innovative single market in the world, and that it radiates beyond the brussels effect and even beyond the borders of europe. every product sold here in europe should be durable and not break down after two years. it should be repairable. this is how we delight consumers and save resources. consumers are overwhelmingly more likely to buy sustainable products, as numerous studies show. a mandatory label on the longevity of products could make it easier for these consumers to make choices and become sustainability actors. i would ask you to vote in favour of our amendment. many of the products are built specifically to break down after a short time. it drives profits when people have to buy new phones or new kettles over and over again. we demand that this planned obsolescence be banned once and for all in the eu. and we have an amendment for that too. the creation of the eu single market was historic. let us lay the foundations today for the creation of the largest sustainable single market in the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu has the task of translating the idea of the european green deal into concrete policies. the single market, with its many small and large businesses and 450 million people, is the lever for this, because we must now shape policies for an environmentally and economically responsible future. but this report is not the way to that future. the report is full of bureaucratic and protectionist spirit. it is simply unrealistic to make strict regulations and at the same time to want to see that innovation is not restricted. it doesn't make sense, because progress requires freedom. i cannot therefore agree with this report. it is a conglomeration of over-regulation and far from a market economy approach and would, in its consequence, impose enormous costs on consumers and especially on small businesses. the idea of man versus economy is fundamentally wrong. we are all economy. we are all the single market, and together we can take responsibility for a responsible future, for the economic and ecological foundations of life for our own and future generations. i want a single market that continues to bring prosperity, that gives opportunity to all eu citizens, that is a beacon beyond europe what democracy and cooperation can achieve. the way to that future is the social market economy. instead of demonizing economic growth, we should look at how we can create new, more sustainable growth. for example, through circular economies: increasingly decoupling growth from resource consumption. it is the market economy that creates new opportunities. so let us finally exploit the full potential of our single market! let us create a level playing field. let us break down the barriers of protectionism! let us put our trust in the responsibility of citizens! let us focus on information and transparency and make consumer protection more european! and above all, let us finally create a true digital union! let's support research! let's make sustainability possible through innovation! the single market is at the heart of the european union. instead of crippling it with red tape and prohibitions, let's finally unleash its full potential.
mr president, thank you very much for the charming way in which you have conducted this sitting. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think most of the speakers in this debate have shown that, of course, we want to make more sustainable products and the internal market in europe. but what has been expressed is also important: it is also about jobs, it is about consumers, it is about high costs and social compatibility. on the one hand, if we create something that burdens people, we must also ensure that we do not create bureaucratic obstacles, that is, a new bureaucratic monster from the european union, which then leads to widespread rejection in the member states and ultimately harms the european union. we must therefore reduce bureaucratic costs for businesses, but also for consumers. i can think of one example, commissioner reynders, because you are here, an important example in the matter of cutting red tape: the so-called a1 certificate for workers in the eu. many small companies, but above all scientists in my own research centre in hesse, have complained a great deal about the disproportionate burden of bureaucracy they are subjected to in connection with short-term assembly work abroad, and two-day scientific conferences in france and austria. i have asked the commission to do so and the commission's reply is that this is not our responsibility, it is the responsibility of the member states, and we do not see any need to act. i did! there is such a thing. there are many bureaucratic hurdles due to the different application of union law. and i would like to point out to you this point: a1 certificate, please take it with you. the commission must act here, since it is within its competence to apply uniformly union law to enforce the internal market. this would be one example where we can cut red tape, and then we can also create new requirements for businesses and consumers in the area of sustainability.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, passenger rights, product safety and collective redress – the eu consumer protection standards are amongst the highest in the world. and we can be proud of that. yet the old eu consumer strategy is eight years old and an update is highly needed. what is at stake? the climate crisis is more urgent than ever and to empower consumers to make the most sustainable choices is something that we have to urgently do. with a proper right to repair and mandatory labelling we can make the consumers become agents of sustainable change. many people fear that the digital transformation is going on faster than we, the policy-makers, are able to regulate. this cannot be. consumer protection may not lag behind in the online world. i am very happy that the commission took up in its strategy the concept of vulnerable consumers. there are groups that need a closer look, that might need special protection, like for example, heavily indebted fellow citizens. and we have to make sure that our high consumer protection standards are not undermined in trade agreements. take the precautionary principle: it is a fundamental standard in eu policy-making, yet it is not fully anchored in our bilateral trade agreements, like ceta, and this needs to change. commissioner, i am expecting ambitious proposals in those areas and am looking forward to working with you and my colleagues in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) on ambitious legislation. trust of eu citizens in eu consumer protection is high. let’s not disappoint them and let’s live up to their expectations.
(introduction of the speech with the microphone off) ... complaints have been received this year from travel agencies and airlines in germany alone to consumer centres. when airlines like lufthansa and air france benefit from billion-dollar bailouts, they are less careful about refunds. we believe that those who receive billions in aid from the state have a special responsibility for the climate and their customers. many customers have been waiting for months in vain to be reimbursed for their travel expenses. many people who have to flip every euro three times because of covid have spent their savings on annual vacation. we can't have this money disappearing into airline balance sheets. we must fundamentally strengthen the rights of travellers in the eu. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. while airlines are being bailed out without significant strings attached, the rights of passengers are being trampled underfoot. the greens support the demand by consumer organisations to change this. the advance rule should be abolished. instead of months in advance, the money for tickets should be paid just before the trip. travellers need to be better protected against the insolvency of airlines and travel agencies. together, let us make the european union a consumer protection union!
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr ferber, thank you very much for your report. the financial markets directive is an important piece of legislation aimed at promoting the development of the currently underdeveloped capital markets in the eu, while ensuring investor and consumer protection. especially in times of corona, it is important to ensure that our european companies can recapitalize quickly and safely. the history of this directive is also a prime example of institutional uncertainty. one step forward, two steps back. it was only in 2018 that we tightened financial regulation drastically. we've forced the financial industry to shower their customers with hundreds of pages of paperwork, as well as record confidential phone calls between companies and customers. no one believes that this is in any way protecting the interests of the customers. the only people who benefited from mifid were financial advisers, who collected huge consulting fees by helping the financial sector comply with the rules they had created. but then a little miracle happened. in a rare moment of listening to their conscience, the commission recognized its mistake and proposed a review. unfortunately, it's now being postponed to 2021. but in times of covid, small and medium-sized enterprises are having a very hard time finding investment capital in the market right now - also because of mifid - so this parliament is now trying to de-bureaucratize part of the financial market in a prudent way - and we welcome that. unfortunately, the rapporteur has now withdrawn many of his good proposals in order to please the left, and we regret that. however, we expect the directive to be reviewed next year and further deregulated and de-bureaucratised. we therefore recommend that the directive be approved. but what if the next financial crisis breaks out in the coming years? given the huge increase in public and private debt across the eu, this would not be a surprise. we are not going to increase the regulatory burden again. i'm sure the consulting industry would be thrilled. what our companies and investors really need now is exceptional regulatory certainty. the overturning of the rulebook does not create trust in the eu institutions. on the contrary, the more we regulate at european level, the more we experience the forces of a european union that is still struggling to hold together. and you don't want that. here, as so often, less is more.
madam president, the approach to this proposal is deeply flawed. as part of the recovery package, the aim is to facilitate more private investment to counter the problems faced by firms as a result of covid-19. regulatory requirements that administratively clutter the mobilisation of such investment will be eased while the effects of the pandemic last. yet more generally, the intention is to make the basic regulatory text less burdensome on investors and financial intermediaries, but mainly the latter. the target is to dust away so-called formal burdens. the recovery package is serving as a basis from which longer-term changes to the regulatory framework are carried out. yet, a comprehensive review of the framework is scheduled for the near future. but why pre-empt it as of now without a proper assessment? at a time of crisis, investor confidence can act fast. to maintain existing levels of investment globalisation, let alone increase them as we are seeking to do, is a stiff challenge. if we decrease consumer protection or appear to be doing so for a longer-term rationale than the one defined by the covid crisis, the whole exercise loses coherence, and that’s a bad idea.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with four weeks to go until christmas, many of us are thinking about what to give our loved ones: alexa for grandma or a smartwatch for our daughter. whether it is christmas presents or other commercial products, everyone wants to have a good conscience about the products they buy. we need to ensure that consumers are protected from dangerous products in our single market, even if these include new technologies such as artificial intelligence. that is why it is important to create legal clarity. we will do this by identifying and closing the relevant legal loopholes, for example in the general product safety directive, without eliminating sector-specific regulations for ai products. we should stick to the risk-based approach, i.e. the higher the risk of the product using ai, the more stringent the conditions for its admission to the internal market. (the president cut the speaker off)
excuse me, ms walsmann, i have made a mistake. we should have finished the previous debate, which means that i should of course have given the floor first to commissioner mcguinness and then we change to your topic. you speak and then again the commissioner. ms mcguinness, welcome to parliament in your new role! so, we finish the first debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, i know from being in the chair that it’s difficult sometimes to keep watching everything, and i look forward to our next item. but look, i want to be very clear to colleagues who are suspicious about what we are doing in the commission, and maybe it’s good that this item is first up on my agenda. i am no supporter of light-touch regulation, and i’m going to repeat that for all ears: i do not support light-touch regulation. the second observation is that our banks are stronger going into this crisis because of regulation, and therefore we have had the flexibility so banks can lend. so be very clear: this is not an agenda for deregulation, and i hope that you hear my words and take them as they are. indeed, nor are they an agenda for over-bureaucratic systems, and i think what we have to do, as the commission and the co-legislators, is work together effectively so that our regulation works and that it has an impact. the reason why we went for a quick fix is because we needed to react to the covid-19 crisis. indeed, some of you have rightly used this evening’s debate to talk about some of the challenges that we will face in the coming months, and they will be very difficult, and you know that before the end of this year the commission will come forward with a communication on non-performing loans. and we do that so that we raise this issue which will face us in the coming months. we don’t know when, but we want to prepare. so do not look on the commission as an ally for bureaucracy or for light-touch regulation. i lived through light-touch regulation and i know it does not work. so i hope that you are convinced, those of you who had concerns about what we are doing, that this is an agenda for something that none of us wish or want, and i need to be very clear on that, and i hope that message gets through. there were some other specific issues raised about why are we not dealing with the social-economic, why are we only dealing with these sorts of financial issues. but clearly there is a link between public health and the economy, and banks, and financial stability. you cannot separate one from the other, and i think we all know that and we need to work together on it. and particularly when you mentioned the climate crisis, as one of the colleagues did: this is integral to what we’re trying to do. publicly, i have said very loudly that we will not allow covid to take our eye off the issue of addressing climate change. the challenge is greater for us, and therefore i think the challenge for our institutions is to work very effectively, so that even with the covid-19 public health crisis, which we are not out of yet, we will legislate effectively and deal with the climate emergency, the biodiversity challenge, the environmental difficulties. we’re also looking at the social aspects of companies, not just the financial. so i want you to be very clear today, in my first appearance in parliament, that there will be no light-touch regulation on my watch – but there will, i hope, be effective regulation that you, as members of this parliament, have helped to shape. i want to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) for the work that they’ve done and marcus ferber for the work that he has done as rapporteur. the differences that are, if you like, on the floor this evening can be resolved if we listen to each other very carefully. remember that i come from a background of the food supply chain, of agricultural markets. i fought for unfair trading practices legislation, against the wishes of some in the house, but we got there. so please rest assured: we are in very serious times here. what we are trying to do, and we hope we will be effective, is to make sure that finance flows to smes, that those sectors which are currently very hit by this pandemic, who have had to open and close because of the various waves of this pandemic, will survive. and i think we are concerned that some sectors may not survive, or they will be much changed. so let me again stress why we are doing this: it is to try and ease capital flows. it is nothing else. we know that there will be a bigger review of mifid at some time, and i value the points that have been made here, and i hope we can work together on that review and do the best for both investors and those companies who need the investment. in my first appearance here, i think it was good to clear the air on where i stand. i hope you also heard very clearly what i intend to do. but i would ask you – and i think this will be the case: this is a different time for us all. none of us have ever lived or worked through a public health pandemic, which we are not yet clear of – the end, if you like. we hope that in 2021, vaccination will help and that, as some said, we will get back to normal. however, i don’t think we will get back to the past, and there were aspects of our normal past that we should perhaps not go back to. so let us use what we have learned from this crisis, and indeed will continue to learn, to regulate better and effectively, and i promise you that that is my intention as the commissioner with this responsibility. i wish i didn’t have it on my shoulders, because it will be a heavy responsibility. but if you put your shoulder with mine (socially distanced, of course), i think we can do good things, and i think we will all be proud eventually of the changes that we make. i ask you to support this report.
this conversation is over.
the following is the short presentation of the report by mrs marion walsmann, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on product safety in the internal market (a9-0207/2020) [2019/2190(ini) ]. mr president, since i had to interrupt you without you having made any mistake, i had made the mistake, you might perhaps repeat the opening remarks a little. you have four minutes now. there you go, mrs. walsmann.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. with four weeks to go until christmas, many of us are thinking about what to give our loved ones: alexa for grandma or a smartwatch for our daughter. whether it is christmas presents or other commercial products, everyone wants to have a good conscience about the products they buy. we must ensure that consumers are protected from dangerous products in our european single market, even if these include new technologies such as artificial intelligence. that is why it is important to create legal clarity. we will do this by identifying and closing the relevant legal loopholes, for example in the general product safety directive, without eliminating sector-specific regulations for ai products. we should stick to the risk-based approach, i.e. the higher the risk of the ai product, the more stringent the conditions for its admission to the internal market. we should also avoid administrative burdens and check the impact of the measures on smes. over the years, the number of dangerous products has increased progressively: 29% of the most frequently reported products were toys, and 50% of all products classified as dangerous last year came from the people's republic of china. this requires market surveillance authorities to cooperate more closely with customs authorities and online marketplaces in a targeted and cross-border manner. they must be better equipped to identify unsafe products, including through the use of innovative technologies. the european database on dangerous products rapex needs to be modernised and made both more user-friendly and more well-known. and recalls have to be made in a way that they actually reach the people who bought the products, which is unfortunately not the case today for the most part. in some member states, especially in times of the coronavirus, consumers are completely dependent on online purchases. online marketplaces could play a significant role in preventing dangerous products from being offered to consumers, in their immediate withdrawal from the market and in informing buyers of those products. the measures proposed in the report aim to increase the safety of all products, regardless of whether they are purchased online or offline, whether or not they are covered by sector-specific regulations, and whether they are purchased from a supplier inside or outside the eu. we have jointly formulated this objective and i would therefore like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and their teams for their excellent cooperation. although the negotiations were not easy and were conducted under difficult conditions due to the restrictions imposed by the corona virus, we nevertheless managed to reach a unanimous agreement on a text in the committee on the internal market. if we are united in the plenary as a team, the commission will get a strong signal from the european parliament that we speak with one voice when it comes to strengthening product safety and thus consumer protection and the european single market. this would be the best christmas present for our european consumers.
in writing. an industrial strategy which is draining the water from the german nuclear industry has lost its purpose and must be rejected in the strongest terms. the text makes industry the victim and the enforcer of a misunderstood environmental idea under the european green deal. this is reflected in the irrational demand for an immediate end to the use of fossil fuels, the characterisation of natural gas as a temporary energy source until 2050 and the ecb's political positioning as a 'climate bank'. the destruction of our industry has a system; you just forget in your so-called strategy that it is industry and smes that have to pay the bill for your climate fantasies.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the report on the situation of fundamental rights in europe is an important report, but unfortunately it was not treated in this way by the relevant libe committee. because then the libe committee should not have given the report to clare daly. clare daly was expelled from the labour party for being an openly trotskyist militant. even the socialist party, which she joined, later rejected her - not even there. we have a rapporteur who was or is a follower of trotskyism, which is probably the most extreme form of terrorist communism, who clearly stands for anti-democratic, anti-pluralist and anti-freedom regimes and who has thus openly fought for decades against the european values which this report is about. and is such a person seriously to be made rapporteur on the situation of fundamental rights in europe? you can't make it up! and that is exactly what the report is: a collection of left-wing clichés, unsubstantiated claims and outright lies. the report makes no mention of infiltrated muslim terrorism, as if the mass murders of recent years were not the most fundamental threat to european fundamental rights. a report that spits in the face of all jews when it pretends that islam and anti-semitism have nothing to do with each other. a report which seriously treats housing shortages and unemployment as violations of fundamental rights, but which does not want to see the muslim attack on charlie hebdo or samuel paty as an attack on freedom of expression, or the murders in nice as an attack on freedom of religion. this report is a document of the failure of clare daly, but also of the libe committee, because daly's failure was foreseeable. this report is a sham of the left, and above all, it is a disgrace. you might as well have made a rapist the reporter on the situation of women's rights. but that can happen in this house.
mr president, we wish to report that at a symbolic gathering in honour of the popular uprising at the polytechnic in greece, with the common consent of all the protection measures, the ban on gatherings of more than three people, the repression organ, the dispersal of the gathering, the police, the auras, the incitement of members of parliament, as well as the prosecutor's intervention for the presence of political leaders, were activated. all this from a government that deployed 6,000 police with no protection measures, that strikes labor, civil rights, with criminal liability for unarmed hospitals, with tragic shortages in emergency rooms, in personnel, infrastructure, with workplaces and mass transportation hubs of over-transmission. this is a european union strategy, because at its will it is banning the right to strike, demonstrate, trade unionise, the rights of refugees, even to photograph arbitrary acts by repressive forces, as in france, while activating tracking applications. the greek government's bans were effectively lifted. the people's resolute struggle is proof that they will protect their health as well as their rights, much better than governments and the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. politics begins with the observation of reality. the annual reports on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union are also part of this. the present one takes up different subjects and, in fact, puts the finger in the right wound in different places. but what bothers me is that the report is partly wrong, partly overwritten, sometimes accusing the union of things which are either not within its power to shape, where the union is struggling to improve or has already agreed on decisive improvements. the report thus gives the impression of an inescapable fate, of an unchangeable situation, and thus plays right into the hands of those who are already against europe. at the same time, it accepts further restrictions on the scope for action on essential issues. take security, for example, an issue that not only moved our citizens to vote in the european elections, but which - without having to look in the mirror - has certainly not lost its relevance in 2020. the report focuses on the issue of freedom and data protection. but that's not the focus, because we can't play security against privacy. we need a balance between these important commodities. terrorist content online, the protection of children from abuse and the dissemination of images online, images of abuse on the internet, hate speech and the resulting actions are just the most recent examples. data protection must never become protection of the perpetrator. politics begins with the observation of reality. and this reality is never one-sided and biased, it is multilayered, complex and differentiated. this is what we should be striving for. i want a union that responds, that provides answers, that takes the concerns of its citizens seriously, a union that strives to reconcile security and freedom, sustainability and growth, self-responsibility and social responsibility, a union that has a claim to shape, that is aware of its weaknesses and that strives every day to turn them into strengths.
mr president, i have a point of order regarding the deletion of an amendment that refers to the powers of the european parliament of being the only competent authority to waive the immunity of its members. the report we are about to discuss addresses the eu elections in 2019. these have been somewhat incomplete because some of our members were not able to take their rightful seat in this house: a house that is protected and independent. oriol junqueras is one of these members. our amendment deplored that he is not present in this house with us, urging the european parliament’s president to recognise the judgment of our highest judicial body: the court of justice of the european union. the ep is to follow the court’s judgment, even if the national judiciary does not. this is a case of primacy of eu law. rule 181 of the rules of procedure thus does not apply to make this amendment inadmissible. i am deeply concerned and worried about how technical rules are used for political purposes, and i would therefore like to make a point of order to re-admit our amendment to the report and to have parliament vote on it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all let me thank pascal durand for presenting this very good report, an ambitious report with very good compromises, i think, bringing together most of the groups. i want to remind everyone in this house that this house already decides on laws that affect 450 million europeans and maybe potentially many more across the world. i hope that at one point this house will also be able to initiate laws and will field a european government, hopefully. this house is already a beacon of european democracy and i think it’s really important that we try to increase legitimacy and that we try to improve the way we are elected into this house, at all times. i think the report shows ways to do this. first of all, i think it’s very important that we set minimum standards to ensure that there’s a trusted process. that means minimum standards when it comes to the registration of a party, when it comes to the registration of this party for the european parliamentary elections, when it comes to internal party democracy about how to field candidates, when it comes to party financing and fraud control, and when it comes to the election procedures at the actual election date. second, and this has already been mentioned by some colleagues, we need to europeanise these elections. it’s not enough that we all work in our national context to try to put forward european topics. we need to have an actual european debate about european topics and i think there are some ways to discuss this further, as has been discussed for transnationalist spitzenkandidaten. but we should also try to regionalise and localise the elections so that parliamentarians are closer to their citizens as much as possible, so that people have some people to relate to and to reach out to. i think we should not shy away from any of these discussions. we should discuss all the options on the table to be able to improve our electoral procedures. when we look across the atlantic, i think we can see how important it is to have trusted procedures, especially when it comes to the transition of powers. let us not waste this legislative chance, let us try to improve the electoral law.
mr president, this report on the 2019 elections is not intended to be a political assessment of the democratic choices of the people, because we all have to respect them. it is a question of assessing the functioning of our electoral process, and the rapporteur is quite right about that. there are two major facts to be stressed. firstly, these were the most participated elections in the last 20 years and secondly, these elections had an extraordinary participation of young people. this is both excellent news for the european project and for european democracy. unfortunately, the rapporteur did not resist anticipating some of the discussion on the reform of the political and electoral system and the transnational lists, which is scheduled for our conference on the future of europe, and on that point and only on that point i will not be able to follow the rapporteur, because we cannot and should not want to anticipate, from the outset, or condition the discussion we will have at the conference on the future of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report is a way for parliament to paint the world as it pleases. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of equal treatment of all member states. it is a pity that the voter turnout was high in some places and low in others. that is why we need a uniform electoral law, transnational lists of top candidates across the eu, even though this parliament last year guillotined its own top candidate and replaced him with ursula von der leyen at the behest of macron. voter turnout in 2019 compared to 2014 rose in 16 and fell in 12 member states after decades of falling as well a statistical slip as justification for the biggest social experiment since mao. the chinese have a word for it: baizuo, a derogatory term for hypocritical western humanitarians who are all about immigration, lgbtq, and climate change, without any knowledge of the real issues, just to satisfy a sense of moral superiority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think we have to be honest with ourselves: what happened after the european elections was not necessarily a great advance for european democracy. we as a parliament have indeed failed to win over a leading candidate. ironically, the cdu/csu, the conservatives, voted against transnational lists in the last legislature, making it particularly easy for the heads of state and government to override their top candidate, manfred weber, and nominate someone who did not run in the european elections. so if we are serious about european democracy, then in future we must ensure that the basic principle of any functioning democracy is fulfilled, that candidates and parties run with programmes and those who then win a majority or form a coalition that represents a majority also fill the top posts. i can therefore only disagree with mr rangel on this point: if we want to achieve this, if we want to build this european democracy in this way, then i have not yet seen a better idea than that all europeans should be able to vote for this top post.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. now the presidency has changed, but i still think we need to improve the culture of debate. we also need more than one or two minutes of speaking time, otherwise you can only pick one aspect. we need a lively debate here. i'm going to take one aspect out of this, but if i had more time, it would make more sense to go into a couple of other aspects, the story of parity. ladies and gentlemen, in a representative democracy we represent political beliefs, constituencies and not arbitrarily defined identity groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals. those who think we need quotas for electoral lists have somehow gotten the idea that mps can only represent interests if they belong to an identity group. it's just not the case, and it's also a bit illiberal. it's basically like the kind of stall meetings we used to have, an identity democracy, gendered, where you're only allowed to be elected if you're a certain gender, a certain background, religion or skin color. i do not think that is the model of democracy we want in europe. the question of how we shall then organise democracy is one which we really need to discuss in detail at the conference on the future of europe. in most cases, the only thing that is mentioned in the course of a minute or two is the keyword: transnational list. yeah, how's that supposed to work? i'm fine with it. but there are of course other great transnational ideas: multi-member constituencies whatever you can think of. then we must make a promise to ourselves as democrats: whenever we discuss this issue, it must be fair, because the rules we argue with each other, we can not argue about them at the end, once we have agreed. then we can have a hard fight. i am therefore happy to cooperate in this new right to vote for europe. and i have great hope, after this debate today, that we have enough competent colleagues in this house who are serious about taking a step forward now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the 2019 european elections were a great success and a huge disappointment at the same time. the european parliament has been a great success, with over 50% of eligible voters having taken part in the european elections. that's the highest turnout in 20 years. at the same time, the european elections were also a huge disappointment for many of the citizens who went to vote. they believed in the promise that their vote would help determine the future head of the european commission. in retrospect, they were taught better. it wasn't her voice, it was backroom deals that brought this decision. the report makes this ambivalence clear. the need for reform is great. we need to finally have a legally binding regulation of the principle of the frontrunner by reforming european electoral law. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european centre for the development of vocational training. let's take a chance on it.
mr president, there is no doubt, and it can be seen everywhere, that democracy worldwide is under heavy pressure. let’s just look towards the us. but we can consider that european democracy is alive. it has been mentioned before: we saw the best turnout in the last elections for 25 years, with a rise of 8%, especially amongst the young people. so what made the difference? elections are a cornerstone of the democratic system. we need transparency. we need information. we need communication. and the support of the european public sphere is a crucial aspect when it comes to promoting european elections and this is what succeeded in 2019 and this is what we need to work more upon. parliament has taken its responsibility very seriously, as have the other institutions. we need, for the conference on the future of europe, transparency and information and we need interaction. it has to be not only us talking to the public but also listening. this will be the big effort for the conference.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so what we're all missing, and what we didn't really talk about today, is this: if we make a policy that is designed for people, then the turnout will be correspondingly high. that means that we are in debt and that we must finally make politics about people. and people don't want to have transnational voting lists where they don't have any overview at all. he wants his politicians from his own constituency to be elected to the european parliament. and he doesn't want to have any lockdown clauses. i can only reject this report because amendment no 162 was rejected in committee. it would have been useless to write in here or it would have been something to write in here that lockdown clauses are not necessary. germany in particular is massively violating the right to vote by repeatedly trying to repeal a constitutional ruling in order to re-introduce the lock-out clause through the back door, because it wants to send nine more deputies from the major parties instead of nine working deputies from smaller parties. the rule of law is what is required here and what we always denounce. and there is no rule of law here, and that is missing from this report.
mr president, i said it several times in this chamber: the eu green deal requires a drastic change of direction in eu trade policy. the wto and the rules in our bilateral agreements set in stone how the international economy works. they are hard to change and that is why it’s so important that the rules of the game are well designed. but so far they are blind on the environment and the climate, they are quite weak on human rights, this is what we need to change and this is why the trade policy review is so timely. 10% of worldwide deforestation is linked to eu imports. a quarter of worldwide co2 emissions are linked to trade. we need to make urgently all trade, whether multilateral or bilateral, climate proof. we need a climate supremacy clause, rules to phase out fossil fuels subsidies and clear co2 reduction commitments. the eu is proud of its sustainability chapters. yes, i admit they look nice, but looking nice is not their purpose. they need to be effective – and how effective is a tsd chapter if there are no consequences after trade unionist murders in colombia or when, after nine years, south korea still hasn’t ratified the ilo convention on freedom of association for workers? the clear rule needs to be: if there is a breach of a commitment, some of the preferences granted in the agreement need to be withdrawn.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is not going to be able to do anything about this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. meanwhile, china is leading the world's largest free trade pact with no provisions on climate, environment or labour rights. if the eu is serious about creating multilateralism, it must act or else others will set the tone. we need to push forward cooperation with our partners and show a clear edge against our rivals. we need to reform the wto as the heart of multilateralism, work with a president biden to renew the transatlantic friendship, ratify ceta, discuss climate ambitions with mercosur, push forward negotiations with australia and new zealand, and expand partnerships with african countries. above all, we must take a stronger stance against countries like china that rely on unfair competition, systematic human rights violations and attacks on democracy with the trade defence instruments against unfair dumping and subsidies and the upcoming magnitsky act against human rights abusers. we want to pave the way to an ecologically and economically responsible future. to do this, free trade agreements must include clear provisions on the paris agreement on climate change and strengthen human rights. eu trade policy must be a commitment to free trade, multilateralism and our values. if we want to shape the future, we must act in the truest sense of the word.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, what is true leadership in times of covid, economic decay and global instability? what would true leaders do to give their citizens what they need most – prosperity and a healthy environment? true leaders would start with trade, not confrontations. true leaders would unite, not separate, both at home and in the neighbourhood. true leaders would engage instead of invading; they would rule by law instead of oppression; they would release from jail people who stand for the political diversity of their country, for the intellectual wealth of their country. their names are: osman kavala, selahattin demirtaş, cihan erdal, ahmet altan, figen yüksekdağ. they would listen to them instead of imprisoning them. true leaders would not provoke their neighbours, they would de-escalate. leaders would set a vision, a vision in which their country is part of a family of democracies, part of europe and not an alien country, an oppressor surrounded by fearful neighbours. it was my conviction all the time that turkey deserves such a vision, that turkey deserves to be such a leader, a leader in this region and on our common continent. what we have been witnessing in the mediterranean, in cyprus and now in cyprus and varosha are not signs of this leadership, they are signs of weakness. it is a risky game that endangers such leadership and quite frankly a membership – someday, a membership of turkey in europe. this resolution is our last call to change the trajectory of our bilateral relationship. we are saying to the turkish government: we are not just listening to your words, we are watching your actions and quite frankly your actions are discomforting, they are sobering and they are disappointing. we are out of last chances to put our relationship back on track. please help us with this, our last chance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. erdoğan's speech in the cypriot ghost town of varosia is another building block of his expansionist policy of provocation and military confrontation. whether in syria, libya or nagorno-karabakh, erdoğan is increasingly intervening in other states in violation of international law. it is provoking clashes with greece and cyprus over gas and oil and is putting pressure on the eu with waves of refugees. in europe he has been very active for many years, financing the construction of mosques in which he indoctrinates muslim youth, incites them against the west and its values, and thus establishes his fifth column. the eu's response to this provocation? weak and helpless as always. the title of today's item on the agenda shows that: the urgent need to resume the talks. have we learned nothing from history? that appeasement policies will not work with megalomaniacal dictators? are we seriously going to meet here every few months to talk about provocations and wars again, lament about erdoğan and then urgently seek to talk to him again? erdoğan understands only one language: toughness. the eu accession talks with turkey must be stopped immediately, nato membership must be called into question and above all we must impose sanctions on turkey. or do we want to continue to bow down to this islamist troublemaker? we are not!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the latest provocation from the palace in ankara is 'picnic on varosia' and implies the two-state solution for cyprus. to get his share of the eastern mediterranean, erdoğan is provoking and bargaining like in a bazaar. but this isn 't a bazaar . it is about the future of the people of cyprus. and the future of cyprus can only be achieved by the people of cyprus, taking into account the different groups of the population and respecting the rights of minorities, but certainly not by the autocrat. what erdoğan is doing is one thing. but the other is that the eu has been postponing the settlement of the cyprus problem for decades. but as long as the problem is not solved in a sustainable way, and as long as the polarization between the two sections of the island's population continues, because nationalist forces are also fueling it, erdoğan has every opportunity to provoke. you know, erdoğan is on the wall in domestic and foreign policy. but the eu gives him room to manoeuvre. let us stop this and ensure that there is a lasting, democratic and peaceful solution in cyprus as well.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i should like to express my satisfaction with the agreements concluded with israel. any step that can reduce tensions in the middle east is welcome. the european parliament has always been a party to the peace process, and it has always been a party to the peace process. the agreement shows, however, that relations can also be put on a constructive footing if the political will is there. i too am convinced that there is a general fatigue in the face of the uncompromising attitude of the palestinian leadership. in addition, some arab countries have recognized that palestine cannot remain the focal point for the orientation of their relations with israel forever. in view of this, the agreement seems to me to be a clear proof of the old saying: 'the enemy of my enemy is my friend'. if we accept this premise, that iran is a decisive power in the region, an alliance between israel and the gulf states and sudan makes political sense. the united arab emirates and saudi arabia are waging a proxy war against iran in yemen. they also share with israel the scepticism - which is widespread outside europe - about the nuclear agreement signed with tehran. that is why the abraham accords are a benefit to the uae and bahrain and indirectly to saudi arabia as well - they bring more security. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the united arab emirates and bahrain have opened diplomatic relations with israel. yesterday, benjamin netanyahu – though not officially confirmed – visited saudi arabia. in a region that has been suffering from conflict and confrontation for decades, such a dialogue between former antagonists is a good sign, and yes, this region really needs such good signs. therefore, one could actually wholeheartedly welcome the abraham accords if – and that’s the thing – they would live up to their stated goal to build peace. but – and that is also true, mr white – recent developments are worrisome. the uae has advanced a major arms deal with the usa as part of the bargain, as if we needed more weapons in the middle east. israel has stepped up its settlement policy against palestinians and the human rights violations in bahrain continue rather unnoticed. so a deal that only serves to build alliances against other neighbours or to arm the region even further is neither going to build peace, nor should it be supported by the european union. but, on the other hand, every step that the uae, israel, bahrain and hopefully many, many others take towards de-escalation and peace should have our full support. so, very much in line with what you said, mr borrell, i think it’s time for a reality check. let’s take the signatories at their word and use the new regional dynamic and the change in the us administration to initiate a new eu-led initiative to work towards an inclusive israeli and palestinian peace deal.
i have to say, madam president, in 2020, in a time dominated by isolation and setbacks in the shadow of the pandemic, the uae, bahrain and israel are looking forward to innovation through cooperation. the abrahamic covenant broke down old barriers that had seemed impossible to overcome. the focus is finally on community. potential and creativity are thrown into a balance. a joint tourism sector, cooperation in energy and security, joint research on the coronavirus vaccine: this is the future. it is also good that an alliance of resistance is now being formed here, mr castaldo, against iran, the country whose government is constantly looking for more influence, which is also trying to infiltrate europe. it is also an opportunity to re-examine the human rights situation in one's own country and to involve civil society in reforms. i say this, mr borrell, with regard to further agreements with lebanon, morocco and also - and especially - saudi arabia. in this process, i will build on the strong role of the european union, firmly standing by america and the two governments in favour of a two-state solution. i do not conclude without assuring you that the european parliament is no less concerned about palestinian interests and remains committed to a just solution for all parties to the israeli-palestinian conflict. but the way out of the current impasse also requires the cooperation and sincere commitment of the palestinians. let us start by taking a step towards each other in the delegations of this house, in the spirit of the agreement, albeit online for the time being.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, journalists expose what others want to conceal. they shed light on situations that others want to keep in the dark. so a climate of impunity for crimes against journalism is as if we switch that light off and wander in darkness. but it doesn’t always need a murder to silence a journalist’s voice. authoritarian, and sadly even some democratic, regimes and governments have found other ways to muzzle media freedom. they are silencing journalists by anti-terror laws in the philippines, by state interference in corona coverage in tajikistan, or by the denial of permits and the withdrawal of accreditations, as in belarus. these crimes may not be as obvious as killings, but the effects are very much the same: killing the freedom of the press, depriving people of their right to information and silencing critical voice after critical voice. that is why i want our eu institutions and each and every one of our member states to make sure that there is no impunity and no way for these governments to get away with these laws and restrictions. commissioner, support is good, but i also want to see severe consequences if support is not changing anything. i want to see that within europe and in each and every corner of this world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu is clearly in deep water. we have a brexit unresolved that can still go pretty bad. we have an inflated budget: the budget has suddenly become over 70% more than before. we have a own resources regulation which will perhaps bring some money into the coffers only next year, but otherwise it is very vague and very vague, and we still have turkey on the borders, with which we cannot get along. but what do we do? we make rules and try to put everything we can manage into one big package in one big dishwasher. i told you this was gonna go wrong, and it did. we cannot link the rule of law mechanism back to financial mechanisms. you know very well that we have unanimity in the treaties here. of course hungary can veto, of course poland can veto, because they joined the eu with this rule. if we change these rules now, it is legitimate if poland and hungary then oppose it. what should we do? i think we should be aware that we cannot wrap this package together. we have to get it back on track, and then you can get another mfr, because if you don't do it by the end of december, then the rules of the 2020 budget will apply. you know that, article 312 (4)? i would therefore like to remind you once again: please be satisfied with the sparrow in your hand and do not let the pigeon on the roof fly away!
i have to say, madam president, the eu is not a self-service shop. democracy, the rule of law, common values and objectives are the basis for european cooperation and our budgetary policy. mr orbán, mr morawiecki, what are you afraid of? the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. it's not gonna work. a majority in the european parliament and the council will decide on an effective rule of law mechanism. they won't stop it. the only thing you're doing is dragging us deeper and deeper into the crisis. your companies are also going bankrupt, more people are losing their jobs, and the health situation in your countries is also dramatic. it's your choice whether you want to be part of the solution or whether we have to find solutions without you. mr michel, mrs merkel, we members of parliament have done our job, now it is your turn. make it clear that our european democracy is not negotiable! find a solution, but do not sacrifice the rule of law mechanism! whoever bows to orbán now will weaken the eu for decades. bring the council summit forward! if we do not have a solution by 11 december, there will be no time to get the budget started on time. as a budgetary politician, i also say very clearly that an emergency budget with only agricultural subsidies and administrative expenditure must not be an option. it would weaken us all. we wish you every success in the european project and that the eu budget can start on time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. while a survey in all member states shows that in hungary, citizens are feeling the financial impact of the corona crisis the most, viktor orbán is engaging in a public confrontation with george clooney. i think that's the wrong priority, even for its citizens. and there's more to it than that, this wrong prioritization. he is blocking the entire budget, the corona aid, which would actually help him most, and by the way, poland, would also help the citizens most. there is a lot of talk about these two governments, including here today in the house. the summit in the summer would not have been an agreement on the rule of law. yes, the rule of law conditionality was part of it, and they both agreed. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. yes, it does! the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. that is a lie! i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter. i don't think he did. and i can only recommend it to everyone. i would like to ask the question to all the right-wingers in the european parliament, because otherwise you would be so careful to watch every euro that flows into europe and would prefer to have as little as possible. how do you explain to your citizens, your taxpayers, that you continue to defend the fact that viktor orbán is distributing eu money to his corrupt friends? i'm wondering about that. that is what you are doing here in the european parliament. to the presidency of the european council - even if it is not here today - a warning: we are hearing now that hungary and poland could possibly be offered not to use the mechanism at all or to suspend the article 7 procedure or similar things. all of these would be the wrong compromises. i warn the chancellor, who said in parliament at the beginning of the council presidency: the rule of law is what matters. the word she has given us here will be reflected in the strength of her commitment to this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. how can it be that viktor orbán is leading the whole of europe around by the nose? the commission, the vast majority here in parliament, almost all the member states wanted a rule of law conditionality with a reversed qualified majority. orbán has prevailed, and we in parliament have swallowed this very painful compromise, because in this most serious crisis we do not want to leave the millions of europeans, who are responsible for thousands of businesses, in the lurch. but we have this veto now. it's the next stage in a ten-year process, and i think it's time that we finally admit that this appeasement policy with viktor orbán is not working. we see it in the constitutional amendments. now he writes that the plundering of eu funds can continue should he lose an election at some point. he's writing it into the constitution, and he's changing it so he doesn't lose the election and make it even harder for the opposition. in this situation, unfortunately, the german presidency of the council is not in favour of the debate here in parliament for the second time. i think you should finally ratify the conditionality instead. that's the right signal we need right now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. two months ago, we in the european parliament passed the most ambitious climate legislation ever. we have made three points clear. first, we hear the call of the young. second, we take the climate crisis seriously. and thirdly, we want to negotiate. but we can't negotiate because the heads of state and government are blocking a decision. now it's even in the air that they won't agree to a climate target at their december meeting. don't do that to me! we can't wait any longer. the dying, drying forests, they can't wait any longer. and the people who voted for us on climate change, they don't want to wait any longer. we have only a few years left to meet the 1.5°c target. that means every year, every month counts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat climate change. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, expressed the hope that the european union would be able to play a more active role in the world of youth.
in writing. the european council has a duty to provide a solution quickly for the implementation of the future budget and the european economic recovery plan. we can't afford to miss this moment. the european economy and society cannot be held in place by the failure of national political leaders to deliver on their commitments to citizens and the european parliament. the european right today is blocking europe. the european right must explain why they are holding us all hostage to an anti-european policy. the explanations offered by the right-wing political leaders cannot justify the position adopted. the european left initiated the idea of the european economic recovery plan and we are the ones who today support an ambitious european budget for europe. romania will benefit from the nearly 80 billion euros provided for in the european budget structure thanks to our efforts. to get out of this crisis, we need solidarity at european level, but we also need to all move in the same direction, towards sustainable and modern development. what happens at the next european council depends on what europe looks like in the future and how it comes out of this crisis.
in writing. the most relevant debates were the response to the covid-19 pandemic, climate change, the fight against terrorism and violent extremism, the situation in the eastern mediterranean and relations with turkey, the eu's relations with the countries of the southern neighbourhood, the eu's trade policy. the main issues for the socialists are brexit, the negotiation of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework (mfp) and own resources. the spanish delegation supports parliament's position on the need for a legislative instrument linking the budget to the defence of the rule of law and therefore calls on the council to confirm the agreement reached without changing it. the negotiations on the european recovery fund are of paramount importance to us and we hope to reach an agreement as soon as possible. we also expect an agreement on our future relationship with the united kingdom, and we cannot give up a reliable and stable system of governance, competition rules that protect our internal market and an agreement that safeguards the interests of our fishing industry. and to manage the covid situation we need to move forward in creating a european health union and ensure a transparent plan for vaccine procurement and distribution.
in writing. hungary and poland's veto of the eu budget package is irresponsible towards the southern states, which are in dire need of funds to alleviate the coronavirus crisis. i believe that the rule of law mechanism is the right instrument to protect the european budget from abuse, fraud and corruption. i hope that agreement will soon be reached in the council and that we can release the funds needed to combat the crisis as soon as possible.
in writing. – on the 25 november 2020, the european parliament honoured the international day for the elimination of violence against women. violence can never be tolerated in a society based on judeo-christian principles. as of today, the most spoken of instrument adopted by the council of europe to eradicate this phenomenon, on behalf of nations, is the istanbul convention. interestingly, and apart from the little pinches of ‘gender’ ideology proposed by article 3(b) of the convention, studies are showing that it falls short of attaining its goals. for instance: just in sweden, the national council on crime prevention reported that the number of people killed in domestic violence doubled between 2017 and 2018. belgian interior minister pieter de crem also denounced an increase in domestic violence during the same period, in other words before victims were locked in with their abusive partners because of confinement measures. sweden and belgium have ratified the istanbul convention, as well as turkey, the country where it was adopted and where the rate of femicide is skyrocketting! this makes me want to ask you the following question: is there really an added value to this instrument?
in writing. the aim is to break certain taboos on the issue of increasing violence against women. the increase in violence against women in europe is mainly linked to immigration from certain countries and regions of origin. a study by the federal criminal police office (bkg) in november 2019 on partner violence indicated that in the categories of murder, manslaughter, sexual assault, rape, pimping and forced prostitution, the proportion of non-german perpetrators is significantly higher than the proportion of foreigners in the total population of germany. immigration has presented us with an image of women that has nothing to do with equal treatment and non-violent relationships. researchers in beirut have pointed to the link between violence against women and social factors such as the lack of political and economic participation of women, discriminatory legal systems and impunity for violence against women and girls. in some middle eastern countries, 70 percent of women are victims of sexual violence. it makes social progress impossible. a 2019 survey conducted by the ministry of social affairs in morocco found that about 54 percent of all women experience violence. as i said, immigration from these countries and regions inevitably leads to an increase in violence against women in europe.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. eighteen years ago, my wife and i faced a difficult decision. we had our ninth child, and the ultrasound diagnosed a cervical fold. should we get the amniotic fluid test done now or not? we decided not to have an abortion, since we would never have considered it, and paul was born healthy. for those of you who are curious, god has also entrusted us with a tenth child. ten years after paul was born, i was at a demonstration for the first time, the march for life in berlin against abortion. and there i met them, these lucky charms, these happy people with trisomy 21, down syndrome. they talked about their lives, their jobs, their school, and how much they loved their parents for letting them live. i've never seen anywhere so much infectious cheerfulness and lightheartedness as on these pro-life rallies. but unfortunately, behind the police checkpoints, there is nowhere else so much hatred and hostility against the beautiful, the good, the selfless and the holy. and now we want to reprimand and condemn the poles for saying yes to life, for professing their christian roots? they are fighting for one of the highest values that our bill of rights and our constitutions seek to protect: human life. poland rightly opposes the idea of proclaiming abortion a human right bypassing the protection of sexual health. the european court of justice itself defined the result of the fusion of a male sperm cell with a female ovum as human life many years ago, and we are now going to criticize the poles for respecting the right to life of a human being more than our selfish right to self-determination? who is more protective of human rights here?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the current issue of focus, a german news magazine, columnist jan fleischhauer posed the provocative question of how to explain that president trump - the still-president - has not only gained the support of women, latinos and black voters, but that the number of lesbians and gays who voted for trump this time has even doubled. why do so many lgbtq people feel represented by trump and not obviously discriminated against? many people with the above-mentioned orientation do not want to be dragged into the public spotlight. you know who you are and what you want. they simply want to be seen for what they are: people like you and me, with all the rights and obligations that we enjoy in our wonderful europe. so let's leave them alone with our strategies. the voting pattern in america could be repeated here.
we now come to the second round of voting today. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 8 to 9.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes shall be cast by name. i declare the second round of voting open. you can vote now until 9.15 p.m.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you, mrs kyriakides, for this strategy and thank you for including our green demands for environmental aspects in the production and use of pharmaceuticals in your strategy. i would like to focus on a point which mrs polfjärd has already raised, namely antibiotic resistance. experts warn that the next pandemic could be triggered by a multi-resistant germ and could be even more drastic than the current covid-19 pandemic. so yes, it is right to research new antibiotics and to support this research by the state. but it is even more important to prevent these resistances. for example, if production wastewater is discharged into rivers without being cleared or if the livestock herd is spread over our fields, we need not be surprised that resistance is increasing. therefore, adopt strict guidelines to restrict its use in animal feedingstuffs and modernise the rules on good manufacturing practice so that these aspects are taken into account and factories worldwide are required to comply with these requirements!
the commission has already done so. as you can see, there is very broad support for your pharmaceutical strategy in this house, and that's a good thing. i would also like to see the member states reacting with the same optimism, because they are also the member states which have not played enough a part in the past when it comes to a common eu health policy. that's very clear. but we must also acknowledge that it will take time for this new strategy to have a real impact on our lives in the eu. we must therefore also ensure that what is already in force and will be in force is also correctly implemented by the member states. i am rapporteur for the drinking water directive, which we will be waving here in the next plenary session. we also found that hormonally active substances need to be examined more closely. mrs ries has already raised this. we must try to have more relocation of production in the european union. but that will also take time, which is why we need to diversify our supply chains. i would imagine that you would also put in place a specific fund to help our companies not to be dependent on a single supplier. we also found that we had problems in those times, particularly with third countries where we do not have trade agreements. that means we must also adjust our trade policy accordingly, make more trade agreements, because that will help us to become more independent. i am very pleased that commissioner dombrovskis is also here. we have the review of trade policy on the agenda. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. pernille weiss: as long as you make more money on fat burning pills than on new antibiotics, something is wrong with the system. thank you, sir. i welcome the european pharmaceutical strategy very much, because the corona crisis has shown that we can only move forward together. for example, our agriculture is a strategically important sector for our food security. covid-19 has also reminded us that we need to ensure robust health and medicine delivery and resilient, diversified supply chains for our citizens. so on the one hand, we need a competitive pharmaceutical industry with an attractive and reliable framework for research, development, regulation and licensing, and to facilitate and accelerate the path to new and innovative therapies and medicines. i am thinking of public, public-private research partnerships with structural and financial support. on the other hand, all patients, without exception, must receive the necessary treatment at an affordable price. the fact that member states have already made good progress in collectively procuring vaccines is encouraging, because we need to be better and faster prepared for the next pandemic.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, yes, it is good news that we have succeeded in at least one area in putting a symbol that we are going to continue with trade relations with the united states. the fact that it is now lobster of all things may confirm some of the prejudices about the eu. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. but i think that when we talk about trade relations with the united states, we can also take a little bit of a broader view. it has already been said: it is the first agreement in 20 years, and it concerns lobsters. we should also note that elsewhere in the world, and more recently in bangkok, the largest free trade agreement of the present day was concluded with almost all asian countries. so what we're seeing is that in the 21st century, we have a movement, that economic development, but also technological development, is moving from the atlantic region to the asian region. the question we have to ask ourselves in the european union - and in each of the member states - is whether we want to benefit from it, whether we want to participate in it, or whether we want to remain in the categories of the 20th century which is ending. so do we want to be part of a trade war against development in asia, or do we not want to use development in asia to ensure that we have lasting prosperity and technological development here too? we must therefore also ask critical questions about all trade relations with the united states and we must not say: how wonderful it is that mr biden now wants to return to transatlantic politics and that he has declared that he is ready to lead the world. the world should be run by the people where they live. europeans should lead europe themselves, and they should be in charge of their own energy security, for example. i feel that a statement such as 'i am ready to lead the world if the american congress simultaneously passes a law on european energy security' is more of a threat than a promise. for this reason, while i am in favour of sending a signal to the united states, i would caution against thinking that a new free trade debate with the united states would require us to completely isolate ourselves from asia and russia. the truth is that sovereign in the 21st century is the one who has alternatives. the main industrial and commercial goods of the 21st century are technology and energy. what we are seeing is that the united states is currently - in violation of international law, through third-country sanctions - putting pressure on european countries and the eu to decide where we get our energy from - from them, through liquefied natural gas - and to decide where we get our technology - not in china. we do not want that, we cannot accept that. even if we reject nordstream 2, and even if we have concerns about huawei, the decision has to be made by us and not by the us congress. otherwise, we can get out of here. that is why i welcome this decision on lobster, even though i eat less lobster than perhaps the social democrats. but i warn you against thinking that we must now fall back into the political categories of the 1980s - the cold war. we're finally rid of trump! what's coming now is going to be much worse than what trump was in terms of our trade relations to the east - russia, india, china - and that's already been announced. i therefore ask you, mr lange - and i have full confidence in you - to continue to look both ways and to get the best out of us. we want to take advantage of the 21st century, and this development is not happening in the west, but it is happening even more strongly - and we have seen this happening in the east since the bangkok trade agreement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday, 26 november. before we move on to the debate on cases of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, i should like to inform you that the president has received a request for an opinion from mrs assita kanko on the application of the rules of procedure under rule 39.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the deterioration of the human rights situation in algeria, in particular the case of journalist khaled drareni (2020/2880 ((rsp)). i would like to point out again that no spontaneous speeches or blue cards will be accepted in any of the debates of this sitting. the commission will also be able to make use of the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
a writer. the commission is not i think we can all agree that a humanitarian crisis can very quickly turn into a humanitarian catastrophe. i am extremely concerned that the ethiopian government has chosen to ignore the call of the international community for de-escalation and justify its action by claiming that it is a faster operation. i'm not sure that killing people faster changes the legitimacy of this policy. in the history of ethiopia, there have been many cases of ethiopians killing ethiopians. for this reason, the ethiopian constitution even provides for secession, which is almost unique. the current government seems to be determined to wage a genocidal conflict, having ignored its own constitution. it is also worth mentioning that the ethiopian government has taken the weapons from members of the ethiopian armed forces who are participating in amisom and are of tigray origin. only al-shabaab can benefit from this.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. threats, ultimatums, aggressive rhetoric and acts of war against the civilian population: the struggle for new power relations in ethiopia calls into question many hopeful moments of the more recent past. the horror of civil war and balkanization, and the drifting of the entire region, is coming into sharp focus. we therefore call on the actors on both sides to refrain from further escalation of the situation, to agree an immediate ceasefire and to appeal to all neighbouring states not to fuel the conflict either through political or military interventions. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules. it also aims to address attacks on ethnic and religious groups and related human rights violations in the run-up to the current escalation through an independent commission of inquiry. those responsible must be held to account. prime minister abiy ahmed and tplf leader gebremichael share a varied but common past. africa and europe must now look and show real leadership. europe and the eu are ready and are already offering help here to de-escalate the situation as a whole, knowing full well the inadequacy of their own european action in the past and the partial question of credibility as a mediator. but without further input from the current players, europe and the member states must make it clear that the special bilateral relationship with ethiopia is at stake. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council.
author. – mr president, we have already hundreds of civilian deaths and mass displacement of people in eritrea. it has already been said that there are more than 40 000 people that have crossed the border to sudan, to the southern part of sudan, destabilising even more the fragile situation in sudan. these developments are going on with violence and breaches of human rights. at this moment, access for human rights workers and aid is severely restricted. those organisations cannot even go into those regions to help the people. we call on the eu and the member states to step up humanitarian aid, together with the unhcr, to help those people, those who are most vulnerable. at the same time, we have a communication and electricity blackout, as ms kanko has already said, in the tigray region. this is very worrying and we call on the federal government to restore this situation, to ensure access to communication and electricity for the civil population in this region. we support the efforts on mediation proposed by the african union and call on the european union to step up efforts to use all diplomatic means to obtain a ceasefire in order to protect the civilians in ethiopia.
author. – mr president, on 10 november, on the symbolically named square of changes, a young artist, raman bandarenka, was beaten to death by lukashenko’s regime. raman is not the first brutally murdered victim, but it is our responsibility to make sure that he will be the last. the alleged murderers of raman include the chairman of the belarusian ice hockey federation. yet, the main culprit in this is lukashenko himself. he is responsible for 100 political prisoners, for over 20 000 illegally-detained people and for all the citizens who have been kidnapped, beaten, tortured and raped. he is responsible for personally spreading shameless lies about bandarenka and then prosecuting the brave doctor and the journalist who dared to refute his lies. ironically, he is also responsible for the awakening democratic spirit and the civic responsibility among belarusians. the thousands of men and women who march in the streets, hang out flags and extend hope and solidarity to each other are the unstoppable forces of good. they will prevail over lukashenko’s brutal dictatorship. we in the eu have a responsibility towards our fellow europeans, the people of belarus. in their fight we can support them by including family members who underpin lukashenko’s regime to the sanction list. every assistance by international donors to lukashenko should stop immediately, and private investors should also follow this example. we should impose separate sanctions on the energy and chemical sector. the ice hockey world championships should not take place in belarus. people who are forced to flee belarus should be able to find shelter in the eu. visa requirements for them must be simplified or even scrapped. the eu should further mobilise the international community in delegitimising lukashenko and making sure that the square of changes where bandarenka was beaten to death becomes a country of changes where democracy beats dictatorship. (appalause)
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not hanna sunhurava's 11-year-old daughter still thinks her mommy's away on business. but her mother was arrested for participating in demonstrations for fair and free elections. every day belarusians of all ages - sometimes even with their lives - pay for putting democracy into practice. we cannot fight this persistent, determined struggle of the belarusians, but everyone can support it: i have taken on a prisoner sponsorship for hanna. but the fate of hanna could have been avoided if the numerous resolutions on the falsification of election results, the detention and torture of protesters had been followed by action. the belarusians show us what an active civil society can achieve and that power truly lies with the people. but above all, belarus is teaching us once again what we need as the european union: namely, that we must finally become more capable of action. if we are to turn symbolism into genuine foreign policy, we must introduce qualified majority voting.
in writing. this motion for a resolution deals with the human rights situation in belarus, in particular the treatment of journalists. in belarus, where president alexander lukashenko faces serious allegations of electoral fraud, human rights violations are ongoing. these are also directed against journalists and against the freedom of the press. time and again, journalists, but also other civilians, are arrested by the state security service, disappear or are killed. on 11 november 2020, 31-year-old art teacher raman bandarenka was brutally beaten by a group of masked men in plain clothes. reports indicate these men have close ties to the government. in detention, raman bandarenka was beaten further and then taken to a hospital after two hours with head injuries. the next day he succumbed to his injuries. a doctor and a journalist who are trying to solve the case are now being pursued by government agencies. witnesses were also repressed. a memorial to raman bandarenka has been destroyed. when orthodox and catholic church officials condemned the move, they were severely criticized by the minsk government. we condemn violations of human rights and stand for democracy and freedom and for a free and independent press. but we reject eu interference in the affairs of a non-member country. i have abstained after careful consideration.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i congratulate you on a successful budget negotiation in 2021. however, you know that the budget is built on a very fragile foundation. however, as it is the first in the new mff and under the new challenges of the development plan, it would be important that it be reliable and also able to be carried out in a stable manner. i have my doubts about that, however, even after the committee meeting this afternoon. the overall package, which was voted on in july, was changed at the instigation of parliament at the beginning of november, so that no party to the agreement was apparently aware of what was now in force. so after the summit last week, everyone could declare themselves the winner. there must be something wrong with that. how do you explain that? i'm afraid the negotiations for the package were not an open game. it is part of our christian values, and this is especially true in the present advent season, that we speak the truth to our neighbors in preparation for the coming of the world's judge. speaking the truth is evidently the prerequisite for us to sing loudly and joyfully with the daughter of zion the entrance of the king in the prophet zechariah, whom i have just quoted. i wish we had paid more attention to this in the negotiations, so that the budget would have a more stable basis. i wish you a very happy advent and a very merry christmas.
madam president, colleagues, first of all i am quite thankful that we now speak from the lectern so we can actually see each other when we speak. i would like to thank pierre larrouturou and olivier chastel for the tough and very good negotiations. i think the outcome is a greener and more digital budget. while i’m happy with the overall agreement, i’m concerned that the polish and hungarian governments caused such massive disruption to our negotiations. i’ve been in this parliament for more or less 18 months and i’ve gone through negotiations of two annual budgets, the mff programmes and currently the eu’s recovery programme. i still consider myself a newbie but i do want to share three hard lessons learned with you. first of all, multilateralism does work. we did find an agreement and we did find a good agreement on this budget. second, our eu decision-making is still deeply flawed. we allow individual governments to outright blackmail this union, holding the wellbeing of all eu citizens to ransom for their own, at times, personal financial benefit. and third, too often we cave in to this blackmailing and every time we compromise in the direction of these blackmailers. we show european citizens that in this union sometimes money trumps values. last week’s european council conclusions are a perfect example of this phenomenon. i think we should never trade principles over money or values over power, and i would really urge the von der leyen commission to set the record straight in this direction.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, more than 1 million europeans are sending a very clear signal to the european parliament and the commission. do more to protect minorities. minority policy is a european task. the frisians, the sinti, the roma, the basques or the danish minority in southern schleswig, minorities exist in many models. over 50 million europeans belong to a national minority or speak a minority language. being able to be yourself and to speak your own language is a human right. many european minorities have come a long way, others have to fight for basic rights in terms of language, education or social services. this is particularly true for citizens of many eastern eu countries. minority policy is a common european task. we have a responsibility. we need european legislation and a european commission that intervenes when minorities are discriminated against. our green group fully supports each of the nine different and concrete proposals of the minority safe pack initiative. with our parliament's debate we are sending a very strong signal to the european commission. my dear ursula von der leyen, my dear johannes hahn, it is now your turn to join the european parliament in fighting for minority rights and to put forward concrete legislative proposals!
i have to say, madam president, article 5 of the eu treaty provides that the eu may act only within the limits of its contractual competences, in accordance with the principle of limited individual competence. any competence not conferred on the union shall remain with the member states. the objectives referred to in article 2 alone do not constitute a mandate under article 5. and under article 11 (4), the eu cannot implement a citizens' initiative unless it has the power under article 5. in short, the protection of minorities is not a matter for the eu but for the member states. the eu may, where appropriate, encourage their cooperation in the field of culture, in accordance with article 167. and why are we still debating eu measures to protect minorities? because many here believe that the eu has an interest in dissolving national communities and majorities into a sea of minorities. and if you dissolve the sense of community and you have broken down each individual into its nine or twelve identities, like robert musil's "man without characteristics", what do you do with your people who have too much identity consciousness and no connecting characteristics?
the rapporteur. the commission is not it was a great honour to be able to negotiate this dossier for parliament. the response has been tremendous, and the expectations are high. i am therefore very happy and satisfied that we were able to conclude the negotiations under these difficult conditions. so the year of the rail 2021 can start on time. the negotiations were not only complicated by the coronavirus pandemic and our working conditions, as you all know. parliament also had a clear claim - perhaps unlike the council at the beginning - that the year of the rail should be more than just a marketing campaign. yes, it is important that we celebrate and promote rail as an environmentally friendly means of transport with great cultural significance for europe. at the same time, we want to start improvements this year to actually strengthen the railway. because without a shift to rail, we will not be able to achieve the climate targets we have set. around one third of all co2 emissions in the eu come from the transport sector. since the 1990's, they have increased by 20 percent. the main polluters are the combustion engine on the road and the aviation sector. there is no doubt about it: climate-friendly rail must be the backbone of the sustainable transport transformation of the future. my personal motto for these negotiations was therefore: 2021, a european year of railways yes please, but right! rail policy must be given priority again, because under the current framework we simply will not be able to achieve this urgent shift to rail. a negative example is the unfair competition between modes of transport at the expense of rail. the tolling of track is compulsory for each railway line; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. there are, however, positive signs of a change in policy. at the beginning of the legislature, in the mission letter to dg move, i missed the word 'rail' altogether. rail now plays a prominent role in the commission's new sustainable and smart mobility strategy and this is important. perhaps corona was a wake-up call here, too, because the railroad has shown how important it is to our security of supply. maybe this pandemic has also taught us all that we are interconnected, that everything is interconnected. and we know that we are in danger of slipping into even more uncertain times with the climate crisis. we need to decarbonize our mobility. what do we want to achieve with this year of rail? the development of a connectivity index. the attractiveness of a link can be deduced primarily by the time taken to travel from a to b. such an index should help to identify connections in the european rail network which would have a disproportionate benefit to the overall network. this data will be valuable for targeted investment in future infrastructure development. we know that despite the billions of dollars that have been invested, the european rail network is still a patchwork of carpets and there is a lack of good cross-border connections. we must do better. we are here to call for the completion of the transeuropean rail corridors. but in the shadow of that we must also think of the little so-called missing links. many people live - and today we have had the linguistic diversity - in internal border regions and have little access to good rail passenger transport. we need to improve that. the commission is also proposing to develop a green rail label, which will allow the railway to identify the goods and their carbon footprint at a glance. we must also make the railway itself more attractive and we do not want to leave the companies out of the loop. it must be easier to book international train tickets and to get information. we need a common booking platform, and that includes good passenger rights. the interest of society in the european year of railways 2021 is huge, and we are therefore pleased that contact points are now being set up in the member states. i urge that they be set up quickly. we must dare to have a pan-european discourse in this year of the railways. how much money has to be invested in railway infrastructure - i'm just talking about digitisation and electrification? how do we deal with externalities? how will we tax kerosene in the future? how can toll systems help us achieve our goals, our climate goals and generate funds for the rail sector? these are all questions i hope to raise in this vibrant year of rail; the commission has already made a number of proposals. how can this money be used as a priority for the development of railways? if it is a debt to future generations, it must of course also have added value for them, if 'train instead of flight' is to work. so now the rail sector is hopeful again, and we hope to have a real rail renaissance this year. the announcement of new night train services also shows us that we are on the right track and that the younger generation has understood a lot. it is, and perhaps seems paradoxical, in these difficult, restrictive times, when we are all called upon to avoid travel and to have as little contact as possible, to celebrate the beginning of the year of the rail. but let's think about it in a way that we can all work together to create a desire for conscious, sustainable and climate-friendly travel. after the pandemic, firstly, we will be able to enjoy our mobility again, and secondly, we have to decarbonize the sector. thank you very much, i'm looking forward to the year of the rail!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, here and in front of the television screens! i am very happy about this year of the railway, because the railway is a means of transport with a future and potential, and not just from the point of view of climate protection. but we should also note that it is not enough to proclaim a year of the railway. from my home town of dresden to prague we need a railway line for cross-border passenger and, above all, freight traffic. it's about 100 miles, including a tunnel. the feasibility study is complete. we're in the planning stage now, and if this continues, there's going to be a project approval in 2045. everyone here will be retired by then. if we continue to plan and build like this, we can proclaim many years of railway we will not complete a railway line. railways not only have to be discussed, they have to be built, and unfortunately this is also not possible because of eu rules, because of planning law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not left to the mercy of the market. it's not happening. that is why, unfortunately, it remains only in the propaganda and not in the railway line.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs anna, for her report. i would like to say, perhaps first of all, that paper is patient. the document before us today for the vote contains a great deal of truth, but unfortunately very, very little concrete information. i have the impression that many, many colleagues in this room are spending their energy looking at how to make other modes of transport worse, rather than looking at how to make the railway better. i would therefore like to address three points in the railway sector which we must tackle. the first is the capacity problem. we have no capacity in many countries in europe. to increase this, we need investment in the railway infrastructure - in france, for example, mrs lechanteux, this has been done, by the way, since emmanuel macron has been in government - and we need digitisation in ertms. secondly, we need digital ticketing, which is also mentioned in the paper, and thirdly, we need competition on the railways. we see everywhere that there's competition, that more people are using better services, that more people are using rail. look at italy, for example. i think that's what you should do. but what's happening right now, in the corona crisis, is that states are continuing to engage in protectionism and favoring their state-owned enterprises over promoting real competition.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not small and medium-sized enterprises in europe need the best framework and support to be resilient, competitive and sustainable. now, in the midst of the coronavirus and climate crisis, small and medium-sized enterprises are absolutely central to building, and that's why we urgently need an eu sme strategy that tries to make the green deal look like a stimulus program, and that's also a huge opportunity. yes, we need a reduction in the senseless complicated regulations and administrative regulations for businesses. but implementing the one-in-one-out principle does not help with the wooden hammer method. we need targeted answers to what rules are a problem for businesses and why, in order to make such things better in the future. it is important that regulations and rules are coherent, transparent and honest, with a realistic timetable for implementation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the public. smes now need quick decisions, adequate financing and quick access to liquidity to survive. and we also need to increase the number of female entrepreneurs and managers in europe through improved access to finance and educational initiatives. we need a modern sme strategy that clearly puts the green deal at the heart of a sustainable social economy in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. we have seen for years the trend that there is a sinister alliance between governments and big business, with the result that the small and medium-sized businesses are getting smaller and smaller, but the big wealthy and the big companies, the global players, are getting bigger and bigger and more powerful. and the coronavirus is reinforcing this trend: when the middle class suffers, big companies like amazon and big tech keep winning. we support today's motion because it at least shows that we want to correct this. but he's not going far enough. it is not fighting against the excessive bureaucratization and overtaxation which have devastating consequences, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises. it does not reverse the fatal trend but is a beginning at best or a fig leaf at worst. we shall see which of the two is the case when we look at further political developments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, commissioner, in this transitional regulation the contribution of the european parliament has been essential in bringing stability and legal security to our farmers in very uncertain times. we have obtained a two-year transition period which will enable us to conclude the negotiations on the future cap with calm and seriousness. but that is not all, because we have also got the reform of a series of tools that can help our farmers to cope with the uncertainties and crises that may strike them. i am thinking in particular of the revision of risk management tools and the introduction of an exemption from the state aid regime, savings and precautionary schemes. finally, we got posei's budget to stand, which was no small feat. we have also incorporated the european agricultural recovery plan into this regulation. this is almost €8 billion over two years which will be available to boost economic activity in our rural areas and sectors. i am pleased that we were able to secure more than half of the funds to be targeted on sustainable and digital investments in the future and on youth placement. the council and the commission have once again rejected parliament's desire to reform the crisis reserve. if there is a serious crisis in the next two years, the council and the commission will therefore bear a great deal of responsibility.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. mr jurgiel, we are doing our best to observe the hygiene regulations. the whole house is fighting to keep us open. i was shocked to see - i mean, that is a polite expression, and i like to do that - that you greeted the commissioner and his cabinet with a handshake. i hereby call you to order in all respects. i will propose to the president that we do not give you the floor if this happens again. we all have to make an effort. maybe it was thoughtless, then i'll forgive you, then you get away with calling it orderly. but if it 's intentional ... so, we have a bureau meeting tomorrow night, and i'm going to tell the president that we will not tolerate these practices here if the whole house fights, that we will keep parliament functioning and keep parliament open.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. food will not fall from the sky in the future either, except in crisis and war zones. this is why the eu committed itself after the war to ensuring that our citizens are always provided with sufficient domestic food. agriculture is not the stupid "farmers looking for a wife" docusoap we know from germany. agriculture is not about working with oxen and wood plows in the future. agriculture means producing in the future on less and less land for more and more people, conserving resources, that is, using the most modern techniques and technology. so farming is not just a profession, it's a calling. i therefore thank all the colleagues who have helped us to conclude this two-year transitional period today. i thank all the farmers who have made sure that we produce the safest, the best, the most diverse food in europe. but we should not put our own political ego above our personal buying and consuming behaviour. that is to say, the cap of the future, but also the farm to fork strategy... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, it is just and right that the eu is there to help in these times of crisis. the goals for the recovery funds are to help swiftly and unbureaucratically and to overcome the economic crisis, while at the same time fostering european cooperation. in this regard, it was a good idea to use the framework of already existing programmes like the european social fund (esf) and the european regional development fund (erdf), which we know work well in the regions. react-eu follows the logic of swift, easy, productive and european. however the recovery and resilience facility does not. it is shameful to see that the vast majority of the recovery money, eur 670 billion, is being spent with little to no european agenda behind it. i also have to say: that react-eu has no obligation for the usage of interreg is a pity. how the fact that in the first draft of react-eu, interreg wasn’t even mentioned, is shameful and unworthy of a european commission. after images of closed borders and failed european solidarity at the peak of this crisis, after months of isolation and for thousands of families, also months of loss and mourning, we need the european coronavirus aid to be used to bring europeans back together. we need our funds to be spent in a european way, a way that increases european exchange, cooperation and solidarity, and that benefits our citizens. here’s how to do it. instead of transferring eur 670 billion to the member states, use them to top up these tools that foster european cohesion – top up the erdf, the cohesion fund, the just transition fund and the esf, and then use the eur 50 billion that are now planned for react-eu to top up the programmes that support european exchange, european culture and european education: to support interreg, erasmus and creative europe. this is the way we should spend our european money. to enable europeans to study, work, celebrate life, live and laugh together, until once again this crazy pandemic is finally over. react-eu is not bad. it is one of the better programmes of the next generation eu funds, and probably the best that we can get from a council like this, but for me as a member of the next generation of europeans, one good programme is not enough. the overall spending is not climate-just enough, it is not social enough, and it’s definitely not european enough.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eastern partnership has been in existence for over ten years. over eur 1.3 billion has been invested to date in stabilising government institutions to bring them closer to eu standards. apart from some minor successes, the results are rather sobering. take the example of ukraine: as early as november 2019, i drew attention here in the plenary to the system still permeated by corruption and soviet structures. ukraine has signed the hague convention on child abduction but has never implemented it. children abducted by a parent to ukraine continue to be held there, with the perpetrators covered by the authorities and court decisions ignored. a meeting with the ukrainian ambassador on this subject, which i had requested and promised, never took place. the eu must finally put conditions on its support. in this case, that means no implementation of the hague convention no subsidies or visa-free travel!
madam president, this year has been extremely intense everywhere, particularly in the eastern partnership region. besides fighting the pandemic, the eastern partnership countries also had to deal with many other challenges. moldova managed to elect a pro-european president. ukraine conducted successful local elections only to backslide on fighting corruption and other crucial reforms on rule of law. georgia, unfortunately, trapped itself in a dangerous political crisis. therefore, we urge all political parties to resume the dialogue in order to uphold the national interest. however, nowhere has the year been as violent as in belarus, armenia and azerbaijan. the eu continues supporting the people of belarus and their democratic government in fighting against terror until freedom and justice will prevail. dear fellow europeans and our neighbours in belarus, we stand with you until the very victory. the sakharov prize to the democratic opposition is one of the most visible signs of solidarity from this house in order to honour your striving for freedom. in azerbaijan and armenia, the eu should realise its vital role for bringing peace, engage actively in reconstruction of the region, and make sure that the reconciliation leads to prosperity for both countries.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, first of all, mr borrell said things don’t look good in mozambique and in cabo delgado especially, and the situation is worsening, and i thank mr rangel for describing the situation and i would like to add that since the urgency resolution we discussed here in the plenary, several hundred people have been killed. on 9 november, 50 people were beheaded – just to remind you of the situation at the moment in mozambique. you said that you are using all means that are at your disposal to help in that country, but as colleagues already said, at this moment, you cannot even reach the most vulnerable and i would like to ask you: you said that you want to explore the possibility of more resources. that’s good. but how do you want to reach those in need of help? today even doctors cannot go there. what do you want to do to help those people?
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the high representative, mr borrell, has just spoken. i think the situation in mozambique is best illustrated by the example of andre hanekom, a south african businessman who worked in mozambique and died in police custody after being arrested and imprisoned by the mozambican army. mr. hanekom was accused of supporting the islamist rebels in cabo delgado. these rebels have committed heinous crimes, including beheading villagers who stood in the way of their machinations. there is no doubt that these rebels are real and they pose a serious threat to the state of mozambique and the region beyond. and - mr borrell, you just mentioned it - there is also the terrorist influence from somalia. however, as mr hanekom has tragically learned, parts of the police and army in mozambique are using these insurgents as a pretext to suppress any opinion that deviates from the official line in cabo delgado. these divergent views include opposition to the development of offshore gas fields - one of the largest in africa - and to the forced purchase of land from the local population in direct connection with the development of gas fields. add to this the exploitation of mineral resources for the extraction of precious stones, rampant corruption and the presence of private militias - including the occasional appearance of eric black - and all the ingredients are combined for a humanitarian catastrophe. mr. hanekom didn't want to sell his property. influential groups were trying to force the sale. mr. hanekom had partners who also pursued mining interests in cabo delgado. the islamist uprisings are the result of the exploitation of mozambique's natural resources and the marginalization of the local population. this is the result of corruption in africa, which usually follows these things on foot.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in mozambique is alarming. more than 450,000 people have been forced to flee their homes. these internally displaced people suffer from the permanent insecurity, lack of access to basic health care and, of course, the trauma that results from this conflict, often perceived as a targeted measure to depopulate economically viable areas of land. i would like to stress the particularly precarious situation of women, girls and children during this conflict, a situation on which we must absolutely focus. the latest unicef appeal on the situation in mozambique, which was published yesterday, mentions that violations of children's rights continue, with reports of killings, abductions, abuse and ill-treatment of girls and women. cases of gender-based violence are increasing. overcoming and finding solutions at multiple levels, in order to address or mitigate this conflict without interference, should be the norm and correspond to our own objectives.
mr president, mr high representative, now that the barcelona process is 25 years old, it is a good time to remember that on the sea, the mediterranean sea, our hopes and our tragedies have always been intertwined. but it was 25 years ago that we decided to put the mediterranean agenda at the heart of the union, intensifying our cultural, human and socioeconomic cooperation with the aim of building an area of security, prosperity and peace. the truth is that, after these 25 years, the objectives are also far away and we have added new challenges to the old ones: new conflicts in libya and syria, the increase in inequality, the migration and refugee crisis and climate change - i would like to recall that the mediterranean will be the second most affected area in the world after the arctic - all challenges that we want to address from the respect for the 2030 agenda as a guide and a map to address them. but today i would like to make a special appeal to the union for the mediterranean, the institution which was born 12 years ago and which also hosts barcelona, which finds in this process - and i endorse it - its international vocation and its will to be a city where cultures are intertwined. strengthening this institution is the best thing we can do for the barcelona process.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to make use of the words of nathalie loiseau to sum up this debate. we need to be modest and to be ready to engage more. modest, because certainly the results are not good enough. and i’m not going to repeat the long list of problems that we have, but at the same time we cannot not put value on what we have been doing, because we have been doing things, and we have to build – continuous building – on the things that we have been doing in the past years and at the same time recognise that, yes, okay, the situation is not as good as we could have imagined 25 years ago, but let me put value on some examples. i’ve been talking about the european investment plan. we put 4.5 billion from the european union budget and we succeeded in raising 44 billion of investment by 2020. that’s a good result. you will say that’s not enough. no, that’s not enough, for sure, but with 4 billion, we succeeded in raising 44 billion. and now we have been allocating, by june this year, 5.1 billion of european union funds, and we have already generated ten times more in investments, which means 50 billion in public and private investment for development. we have created universities, like the mediterranean university in fez, to educate a new generation of young people with a euro-mediterranean vision. we have in training more than 100 000 young people and supported the development of over 1 000 small and medium firms. that’s not enough. no, that’s not enough: we have to continue. yes, you have to continue. but i think that we cannot solve by ourselves: it is up to the people of these countries to solve. we can support, we can help, we can accompany, but there are problems that have to be solved by the people according to their interests and their will. sans aucun doute, la méditerranée est la première de nos préoccupations – et il faut encore plus en faire la première de nos préoccupations. il n’est pas possible que le revenu par tête continue de diverger entre le nord et le sud. il n’est pas possible qu’on soit toujours devant une région qui n’est pas du tout intégrée, avec des barrières qui empêchent un développement régional. oui, tous ces problèmes sont là. mais ce que je peux vous assurer, c’est que la volonté ne manque pas et que le parlement, la commission et le conseil doivent unir leurs forces pour faire de la méditerranée une mer de développement conjoint, de démocratie et de prospérité économique. c’est notre principal devoir. si nous n’avons pas de succès dans cette politique-là, alors où aura-t-on du succès? dans quelle partie du monde devons-nous nous sentir plus engagés que dans notre voisinage le plus immédiat, pour éviter un fossé culturel, un fossé économique, un fossé générationnel, démographique? je peux vous assurer que, comme je vous le disais, la volonté est là. parfois, les ressources manquent, mais il faut augmenter notre engagement. comme disait nathalie loiseau, il faut aussi beaucoup de modestie, parce que les résultats sont maigres, et beaucoup de volonté de s’engager, parce que les besoins sont grands.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the following: the request for an oral reply to the council on the recommendation of the council on vocational training and further education for sustainable competitiveness, social justice and resilience by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, maria walsh, marianne vind, ilana cicurel, elena lizzi, kim vanrent sparak and anna zalewska, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000068/2020 b90027/20) (2020/2767(rsp)) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the recommendation of the council on vocational training and further education for sustainable competitiveness, social justice and further education for sustainable competitiveness, social justice and resilience by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, maria walsh, marianne vind, ilana vind, ilana cicurel, elena lizzi, kim vanrent sparak and anna zalewska, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000068/2020 b90027/20) (2020/2727 ((rsp)). i would like to point out to members - as you are already used to doing - at the beginning of an item on the agenda that there are no spontaneous speeches in all the debates of this sitting and, unfortunately, i cannot accept any blue cards. in addition, the parliament's liaison offices in the member states are also available for calls.
the president of the council. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am grateful for the opportunity to speak for the council on a subject of the utmost importance. i can say this as the representative of a country where dual education - a close partnership between state/public schools on the one hand and business and industry on the other - is the key to the lowest youth unemployment in the european union and also the key to well-paid, dignified, demanding but also fulfilling work. i am grateful to all those who help us to uphold the principle of 'learning from each other, learning together' in order to strengthen vocational training, despite national competence. and what i also notice in a lot of the conversations is that there's still a very strong focus on academic education. i'm not against academic training. but it is important that young people, whether they want to pursue a career immediately after school or an academic career, have the chance to meet with social acceptance, that vocational training is open to all people in particular people with disabilities, but also people who, due to their background or the financial situation of the families from which they come, also have a wide range of opportunities and that there is no discrimination and no exclusion. and i want to emphasize this in the recommendation, that vocational training programmes must be inclusive and accessible to disadvantaged groups. the council has only adopted the important recommendations on vocational training for sustainable competitiveness, social justice and resilience a few weeks ago, and there is also a particular obligation for us as the european union to act, because under the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, everyone has the right to education and to access to vocational training and continuing training. there is still a lot to be done and i also feel that the so-called european skills agenda and this recommendation have really given momentum to this debate in the interests of young people, no matter where they live in the european union and what their background is. we believe that flexible and resilient vocational training systems can offset disruption and turn threats into opportunities. in our declaration we stated that while vocational training enables citizens to adapt to change, it should also enable them to help shape it. as the introduction has just said, the dramatic change brought about by digitalisation is also causing fear. many are concerned and ask: is this training, this qualification, really worth it? or, 'do i have any chance of ever getting through this qualification?' that is why it is important that we make workers, young people, into actors who are not just waiting for something to be put in their place. i am particularly impressed by what we have put forward as a joint declaration. i would like to mention one last point, because it is one of the great success stories of united europe, namely the mobility of young people. through erasmus+, we have created the conditions for hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of young people to have the opportunity to study, work and live in another european country. but it's primarily a program for the academic elite. it is true that, in the last two decades, 1.5 million learners and vet staff have benefited from the erasmus+ mobility programme. but that is not enough for us, we must go further. we must also encourage young people who want to embark on vocational training and qualifications to see that europe is worth getting to know. it is also a good tool against prejudice, stereotypes and resentment. this is why we set ourselves a target in the recommendation on vocational training at eu level of 8% of learners in vocational training benefiting from learning mobility abroad by 2025. i am very pleased that this debate is also helping to bring vocational training opportunities to the fore. i thank all those who are helping to strengthen and extend the role of the european union in this important test. here, close cooperation between regions, member states and the european union is more imperative and necessary than ever.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for putting vocational education and training in the spotlight, and thank you for the support you are expressing in your resolution on the new council recommendation on that. let me also thank the german presidency for their continued support during the negotiations on this recommendation, and particularly also for the adoption of the osnabrück declaration, which really identifies vocational education and training (vet) as an enabler, and i quote, ‘an enabler of recovery and just transitions to a digital and green economy’. already before the pandemic our workers, young and older alike, needed massive up- and re-skilling opportunities to tackle skills mismatches. the pandemic and the accelerated shift towards a digital and green future demand this even more, because workers need to acquire digital skills and those skills needed for the green transition. we can only achieve this if education and training systems keep up the pace and meet the needs of our economy of the 21st century. the vet recommendation puts this vision into action, and the commission provides concrete measures and instruments to support member states in modernising their vet systems, which the 27 member states wish to do. enhancing the digital shift in vet is at the core of our policy, because most professions are directly affected by digital transformations. digital has become the engine of modernisation, flexibility and the attractiveness of the vet systems, and it contributes to their inclusiveness by opening up new digital learning opportunities for all. the commission has developed eu-level tools for schools to reflect their own progress and the pathway towards digitalisation. we have established quality standards. we are enhancing and promoting exchanges of good practices between member states in all these areas. vocational education and training also mean apprenticeships; they are a particularly appropriate answer to tackling the rising youth unemployment and they facilitate precisely the transition between education and the labour markets. the commission will reinforce support to good quality, diversified and tailor-made apprenticeships thanks to the new initiatives such as the renewed european alliance for apprenticeships and the recently launched pact for skills, which precisely brings together companies, member states, governments, regional authorities, providers of skills and social partners. i am particularly grateful for increased european funding for all these policies. the increase in the erasmus+ budget will significantly increase the number of learners and teachers and trainers benefiting from vet mobility – and mobility was pointed out just now. what is the rule for university students should also become the norm for vet learners and this is also an aspect: how to restore the value of vet to the same level as other educational forms. moreover, erasmus will also invest in vet excellence, because lifting quality and making education systems more inclusive are fundamental dimensions of the erasmus+ programme, and the platforms of centres of vocational excellence financed through this programme. modernising vet systems can in particular be financed through the european social fund plus, and through react and the recovery and resilience facility. the commission’s strategic guidance for the recovery and resilience facility laid out in the annual sustainable growth strategy proposes upskilling and re-skilling as one of the flagship initiatives of the facility. unprecedented funds are available thanks to the good outcome of the mff negotiations, and i urge member states now to use them to invest in people. it’s a matter of europe’s competitiveness and social cohesion alike. vocational education and training is also based on the cooperation of schools, learners, parents, employers, social partners, government authorities, regional innovation agencies, researchers and many more players. we all know that, in principle, education is a national competence, but we need this european cooperation, and by the way, professional education was already in the treaty of rome. it was also initially an objective of the european community, because it was understood that we need a good professional education to have a well-functioning common market.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, there is no doubt that vocational education and training is a key element of the education system and also of lifelong learning in europe. it is a fundamental piece for inclusion, for the development of active and cohesive societies, it reinforces democratic and also active citizenship. and of course it is essential to achieve the employment, competitiveness and social pillar objectives of the european union. but, indeed, after the pandemic, it faces challenges. one of the challenges is the digital challenge, the ecological challenge and also the demographic challenge. we will have to work in a coordinated way so that no vulnerable sector is left out of these challenges and we can all have access to this technology. the pandemic has also hit everyone hard, but especially the youth, and especially the vulnerable sectors. distance learning has increased school dropout, especially for the most vulnerable group of people, such as people with disabilities. the european union must make youth employment one of its main priorities. i therefore call for a coordinated european strategy to make vocational training accessible, visible, attractive and effective, and to stop it being the ashes of education.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. when the winds of change blow, some build hedges, while others build windmills, and the winds are blowing that way in europe right now. digitalisation and the green transition place high demands on our constantly changing labour market. digitalisation is not the only challenge. it is also an opportunity to create a sustainable green future. but to build this green digital future, we need to put much more effort into the smart hands and ensure a european workforce with strong professional skills and high-tech knowledge. that is why we must invest in our vocational training. europe's vocational training must be an attractive option for all, ensuring high quality education for all. we need to ensure a much higher common level of quality across europe and thus fully include students from vocational schools in erasmus plus. we need many more skilled workers, and then we must also have the talented young women involved. and it also has a bonus, because a better working environment is created when both sexes are represented in the workplace. anyone who wants a place to learn must be able to get a place to learn. one that's both paid and well-suited for years in the job market. it is now that we must have the visions of a greener europe. because only with a strong skilled workforce can we build the future of tomorrow. it is now that we must lay the foundations for the society of tomorrow. we therefore welcome the council's proposal. it clearly calls on all member states to take this important step and to invest further in our vocational training. let's get to it. this is important.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner schmit, colleagues, i would like to tell you about kevin, an electricity student in the paris region, whom i had the good fortune to meet between the two waves of covid. he was returning from a professional mobility in romania and when i asked him what he had gained from it, he replied with a twinkle in his eye: "never give up". kevin came back strong with that spirit of conquest, which we want every young european to have. and what gave him this strength was the trust that was given to him, perhaps for the first time, through erasmus. we want thousands of kevins, millions of kevins, to travel across europe, from our villages, from our towns, from our cities. and yet, as you know, erasmus mobility offers too little to learners on the vocational path. among our proposals, we encourage the development of a genuine status for apprentices in europe. it is clear that we must go further if we want to make europe an educational powerhouse, a true educational space for all our young people. it's an emergency. as with the university, we must embark on a bologna process for the vocational pathway. never has training been placed so high on the european agenda. making the vocational pathway a genuine pathway to excellence and the future must be one of the priorities of our legislature. today i want to send a strong message to all our young people: europe is here for you and you are here for europe, because armed with this spirit of conquest, you will be our pride.
mr president vocational training should be seen as a fundamental tool to promote integration and social inclusion. language learning is an excellent tool to strengthen this, as mobility is significantly hampered by the lack of language skills. at the same time, knowing several languages is a great added value in the labour market. i would like to draw your attention to the link between language learning and inclusion. it is an excellent fact that in my own country, hungary, for the first time in europe, a state-recognized exam in hungarian sign language can be taken from 1 july 2021 according to a currently adopted amendment to the law. in addition, the concept of sign language interpreting has been regulated at the legislative level, thus allowing the birth of a new profession. i assure you that you will also be encouraging this very important step in your own member states. it is particularly important for young people, as vocational training will play a greater role in the youth guarantee in the future, and the youth guarantee is a very good and effective tool to combat unemployment and to facilitate the entry of young people who are socially excluded into the labour market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, training and continuing training - these are the central issues on how our society can and must develop further. however, training and continuing training are not the only things that erasmus+ needs. erasmus+ is important, no question about it, and it's also right also good. but we also need low-threshold offers low-threshold offers, where we can also take young people who simply do not bring this know-how to erasmus+. otherwise we are depending on millions of young people, and we are creating social hardship in old age because these people no longer fit in with our society. we have already had the problem that there is simply no cross-border acceptance of different training criteria. this needs to be fixed too. we have the problem that continuing training is sometimes required in occupations, but cannot be provided either because it is too expensive or because the intellectual know-how is also lacking. this means that low-threshold jobs are urgently needed, and we must compensate for this by means of continuing training, because work is becoming increasingly complex, increasingly varied and increasingly difficult.
i have to say, madam president, budgetary policy often has a reputation for being dry and boring, and i think the last few weeks have shown us all that the opposite is true. we members of parliament have fought for european values and clear priorities. it wasn't boring. and the result is a good foundation for the next few years. instead of budget cuts, we are responding to the economic crisis for the first time in the history of the european union with joint investment and joint borrowing. for the first time, 30% of the budget is to be invested in climate. the eu's environmental policy is to be a binding budgetary objective and the entire eu budget should be climate-friendly. the climate goals will stop being made up. research, health, culture the european parliament has made many investments in the future. but most importantly, by doubling the democracy and human rights programme, we are supporting organisations that are working for democracy and diversity in all european countries. and we stand by our european democracy and the rule of law. it's up to you, mrs. von der leyen. do not listen to non-binding declarations of intent and democracy-destroyers like viktor orbán, but implement the laws we are adopting today as of 1 january. make sure that climate and biodiversity quotas are turned into concrete projects. we greens are voting today for the first time on the multiannual budget. it's also a sign of trust, and it's the belief that something good can come of it. let us now work together to ensure that we are held to account.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a great success for the european parliament that there is finally a rule of law mechanism, that the principle that eu values go hand in hand with eu money is finally applied in the european union and that this can no longer be exploited. i would also like to make it quite clear that it is this legislative text that we have negotiated with the council here in the european parliament that counts, not any conclusions of the summit. and to the gue group, which has just criticised this rule of law mechanism as not being good enough: where were you in the negotiations with the council? we have not seen for a minute that any representative of the left-wing faction has negotiated, fought. this was an achievement of the european parliament, but certainly not of the left group at this stage. mr roth, i do not share your optimism that a judgment by the ecj will actually lead to a resolution of these tensions. poland and hungary are already ignoring judgments of the european court of justice. mrs von der leyen, i am very grateful to you for the clear position you have taken here, that you have said that the rule of law mechanism will be put into effect immediately. but it's not just the rule of law mechanism. we're at a new all-time low in contract violations or referrals to the ecj. it is up to the european commission. the rule of law in europe is on fire. take this in your hand! we are counting on you and we will take you on as well.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. viktor orbán is only four days away from the european summit. he now writes the systematic looting of eu funds directly into the hungarian constitution. that is precisely what the rule of law mechanism is supposed to prevent. but instead of making sure that it comes as soon as possible and we can use it, the european council has put it on hold for a while: two years, maybe three, in doubt until after the next elections in hungary. dear michael roth: at the july summit you raised the bar for triggering this mechanism considerably. then you made this compromise proposal, reducing the scope and even removing the word 'rule of law' from the text. the commission is therefore forced to wait a little longer with the sanctions. i have to say that i have difficulty in seeing the german presidency of the council as a major success for the european rule of law. mrs von der leyen: we agreed in the trilogue that this law will come into force on 1 january. it is written in the law, it is provided for in the treaties, whether poland or hungary appeals against it. that is exactly what we must do now, because the rule of law cannot wait. we must use all the tools at the commission's disposal to defend the european rule of law.
we now come to the first round of voting today. the items on which we are now voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 12.45 to 14.00. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes shall be cast by name. i declare the first round of voting open. you can vote until 2 p.m. the results of the first round of voting will be announced at 6 p.m. the debate will continue at 3 p.m. with statements by the council and the commission on the development of an eu strategy for vaccination against covid-19, including its external dimension. (the sitting was suspended at 12.47 p.m.)
madam president, we are indeed facing a global pandemic and it is in all our interests to get the vaccine as fast as possible in all corners of the world. while i really welcome the commission’s effort with act-a and with covax, there is a much faster and more just solution that the commission is blocking at the moment. a high numbers of countries from the global south want the wto to temporarily waive intellectual property rights for the covid-19 vaccine and medicine because they fear for the lives of their citizens. and yet the commission has been firm in upholding this, saying this would put in question ongoing investments by the pharma companies, but this ludicrous argument ignores that so much public money has been put into developing a vaccine. i urge the commission to rethink their position and to show the world that saving lives is more important than saving an outdated model of intellectual property rights. access to medicine for all is a human right.
president, commissioner, you have said it: the union is fighting terrorism in the name of democracy. and yet, we need the security forces that are fighting this fight to be firmly committed to democratic principles. in september, germany suspended 29 police officers for participating in nazi chats. 'the fight against the far right is part of the dna of the german police', said police officials. but in spain, on the other hand, sympathy for the extreme right is dominating with impunity a section of the police and the army. today, three hours ago, we were shown images of spanish soldiers giving the nazi salute and singing the anthem of the military division that franco sent to hitler. today, a significant part of the spanish security forces has a very clear ideological bias against the catalan national minority. you are all concerned, as european citizens, with the objective of making the security forces of all our states impeccably democratic. the main threat to the rule of law in europe does not come from poland or hungary. she's from brussels. it is the shameful silence of the european institutions in the face of the violations of the rule of law in spain. there she is, the threat.
mr president, the past month has unfortunately made it clear that security is back on the agenda, and it is thus where it needs to be – back on the agenda. that is why i especially thank vice—president schinas for his efforts, for the work to come out with a whole set of proposals enhancing the security of our citizens. these proposals are crucial. they give the right answer to the challenges ahead. we need strong and bold cooperation in europe to fight terrorism and radicalisation, but also organised crime, money—laundering and child sexual abuse, just to name a few. vice—president, count on our support for the work ahead of us. at the same time, we need to assure the work done in past years. what is key for that? it is the willingness of the member states and implementation, implementation, implementation. it is good to have an understanding between the member states of who poses a risk to our society, to our european way of life. a common definition in this regard would be better to foster and fasten the exchange of information ahead of the next attack. it is good to have a set of instruments and data exchange, but making full use of them, as in this case, is key. we need to make sure we have the right data, at the right time, in the right hands, in order to protect our citizens. and, of course, it is good to support the counter—terrorism coordinator, but it is equally important to enable our agencies like europol with the same aspiration, so that they can fully explore their potential. so to the council: support and trust the european added value of closer and bolder cooperation in the area of freedom, security and justice. only by that can we provide security and the safety we are being asked for.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, the final vote will be on thursday, 17 december 2020. * see minutes of the sitting.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the need for a separate council formation on gender equality (2020/2896 ((rsp)). i would remind you that no spontaneous speeches or blue cards will be accepted in any debate. the commission is also proposing to provide additional staff from parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. you'll be pleased to know that i speak to you as a woman. when i shaved, i wanted to change the gender and extend the shave to the legs. you have to be flexible. if gender as gender activists claim is merely a social construct, then the demand for equality is a contradiction in itself. because you don't have to be gendered, you can just do it. women, lesbians, transsexuals, whatever, just be men or whatever you want. you can decide for yourselves. just make it easy. then, according to your own ideology, all the questions of equality are solved immediately. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on equal treatment for men and women. we have an eu commission for gender equality, a gender equality committee, a gender equality institute, and at council level we already have informal meetings on gender equality. in times of gender, there's no need for that, because everyone can equate themselves, so make it easy. then you'll have time to deal with the really important problems of people in corona times and not this bump.
yes, that was mrs. fest. we shall continue with mrs kuhnke for the greens/efa group.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this month we are celebrating marie popelin, or rather the popelin case. on 12 december 1888, the court of appeal of brussels refused women access to the legal professions. marie popelin, a feminist icon in belgium, paved the way for women to enter the judiciary. she fought for equal opportunities. i hope that we will follow her example and continue the fight against gender inequality and all other forms of discrimination. we must integrate women and recognise their skills within our institutions, including women from minorities. this strong signal is all the more important as there are still deep structural inequalities in our society. the lack of diversity within institutions is a clear example of the fact that we still have work to do. the council has an important role to play in this fight. we therefore hope that he will accept our request to set up a specific council on gender equality, so that we can finally take concrete action to combat gender inequality. it is time for more women to enter decision-making positions. in this way, we will be able to build a more resilient europe and achieve equal opportunities for women and men.
madam president, i’m just sick and tired of this debate, because gender equality is one of our fundamental values – but in some sectors we are at the moment even moving backwards. in national parliaments across the eu, gender equality would take an average of 60 – six zero – years if you continue at the current speed. i will be dead by then, my children will be retired and we would have lost another two generations, and that is why we really need to get things moving. but member states, and even those praising themselves for being very progressive, block major steps ahead, and yes, the german government is part of this, with the gender balance on boards directive, for example. and that’s why it’s time for us to have this council configuration, to ensure that we finally get gender mainstreaming across all sectors in all eu member states. dear colleagues, gender equality is not the cherry on top of the cake. it’s the cake. (applause)
member of the commission. – madam president, in a context where gender has become a controversial word, and in a context where women are disproportionately affected by the covid-19 pandemic, and when minorities have had similar experiences, it is important that equality and gender equality are on the council’s agenda. so i thank the european parliament for having organised this debate. informal council meetings of ministers in charge of gender equality are a good start – but only a start. as was said earlier, gender equality is not the cherry on the cake, but it’s the cake. so we need a formal setting for these meetings. on 3 december, the epsco council agenda had several equality files as a or b points, that is the council recommendation on roma equality inclusion and participation, the european disability rights strategy, the proposal for a directive on equal treatment, and the lgbtiq equality strategy. in addition, epsco also had a debate on the gender equality strategy. nonetheless, epsco is the council for employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs. so having a council formation with gender equality or equality in its name would certainly be an important step in our endeavour towards truly achieving a union of equality.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thank you again for the opportunity to participate in this discussion. and we have seen its importance - even if only in a few words - because gender equality is still the subject of a fierce political debate in europe. there are people - and politicians - who think they can make a name for themselves at the expense of minorities, women and the weak. they ridicule them, they make them look like shit. i understand our debate today to mean that we are all united in our position on the question of a separate equality body in the council. i respect your opinion because there are good arguments in favour of your proposal. but i want to once again call for the issue of equality to be not just focused on the issue of gender equality, but to take a broader approach. i would like to say that it is worthwhile, ladies and gentlemen, if the ministers for economic affairs, finance, social affairs, education and whatever other ministers have to deal with the question of equality. it's just a subject that encompasses all areas of life. i hope that the subsequent presidencies of the council will also make good use of the necessary exchange of ministers for gender equality. we have done so as the german presidency of the council, and we hope that this can be continued by the presidencies that follow us. it's not just a conversation. i would like to remind you of a very specific initiative which has not yet been implemented. gender equality ministers have called for a europe-wide number for victims of domestic violence in the face of the massive increase in domestic violence against women and children. this initiative has not yet been implemented. that is something we might want to tackle in the coming weeks and months. since you have mentioned the istanbul convention - which is very dear to my heart - i must also say with great frustration that only 21 member states of the european union have ratified the istanbul convention so far. and now that i have the pleasure of chairing the committee of ministers of the council of europe, i would like to remind you that one of our priorities will be to promote the istanbul convention. not that states are leaving, but quite the opposite: that more states commit to the istanbul convention, because it contains rights that protect women and children people from domestic violence. thank you for your efforts. i wish you all the best. i have a word on my card that i don't like very much: it says that gender equality policy needs patience. so i think that sentence is completely wrong. gender equality policy requires vigilance, determination, courage and a spirit of struggle, and you have demonstrated this time and again. thank you for that.
in accordance with rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, two motions for resolutions have been tabled. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 december 2020. * see minutes written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. men and women already have equal rights under the eu charter of fundamental rights and the eu treaties. women have a right to equal pay for equal work and equal access to education and vocational opportunities, which can be challenged under the case law of the ecj. the lack of gender parity in some sectors, such as science and nursing, is due to the professional interests and preferences of the respective sex. we reject a shift from recruitment by ability to recruitment by sex through rigid quota systems. we also reject the promotion and application of a gender ideology with more than two natural genders and more than 60 'social genders'. i shall therefore vote against this item.
in writing. equality must be a cross-cutting issue across all policy areas. we need stronger political priorities for this. we already have a forum in parliament and in the commission which deals with gender equality. i therefore support the call for the portuguese presidency to work towards a council formation to give greater visibility to exchanges on this important issue and to move forward on key gender issues.
in writing. at this meeting, parliament called for a strong social europe. how far is parliament from reality? the increased climate action endorsed by the european council will further undermine our prosperity, on which our social benefits are based. this policy is putting the brakes on energy-intensive industries and accelerating deindustrialization. according to a study presented in september 2020 by the german chamber of industry and commerce, these new requirements will lead to a further tightening of the european emissions trading system. the high co2 prices have a big impact on industrial companies, which are part of this emissions trading system. if only companies within the european union have to bear these costs, there is a very high risk that these companies will relocate their activities. so there is a risk of loss for these companies in germany and europe and greenhouse gas emissions are not reduced but only shifted. the co2 target as a driver, the one-sided focus on electric vehicles with the war on the combustion engine has serious implications for our employment. the imposed switch to electric motors can only be financed with drastic austerity programmes and fewer staff. eu climate policy is responsible for the loss of thousands of jobs in industry. this is an antisocial policy.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are voting today on the amendment of parliament's rules of procedure. this change is necessary because we have no emergency regulations and since the pandemic we have been in a difficult and prolonged emergency situation. it is important that the functioning of the european parliament is always guaranteed, because we are a special parliament. we have colleagues from 27 member states here, and we saw, especially at the beginning of the pandemic, that we were faced with particular challenges with travel restrictions and border closures. but parliaments as places of political decision-making must be functional. we've managed to stay open and actually be able to work in this pandemic, and i think we can be proud of that. the president and the committees have taken the necessary decisions to ensure that parliament, as the heart of european democracy, remains truly open and functional. we have been working on this in the committee on constitutional affairs since the outbreak of the pandemic and have succeeded in drawing up new proposals together to be better prepared for any future emergency situations. we have managed to reach consensus across the political groups on four new rules of procedure which are to be voted on today. these rules are also preparing parliament for the digital working methods we are currently experiencing, for rapid decision-making and better legitimacy of these decisions. i would like to thank the members for their cooperative and constructive cooperation and recommend that the report on the amendment of the rules of procedure be adopted. we are thus guaranteeing the citizens that parliament will remain fully operational in any emergency situation and that we will be able to do our job at any time. and that is why it is important that we adopt these regulations in accordance with the rules of procedure.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, yesterday we approved the eu budget and the corona recovery funds – eur 1.8 trillion of european solidarity. but, we have to be honest: some of this money will be stolen. if we, the european union, are going to spend almost twice as much, we should at least double the budget of our anti-corruption bodies: the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) and the european anti-fraud office (olaf). i honestly do not understand why, in this situation, you, commissioner hahn, have not approved the eur 10 million in additional funding that the eppo requested to properly function. maybe even more seriously, two thirds of the fraud that is uncovered by olaf is simply ignored by the member states. at this point in the eu version of monopoly, we have to rename the get out of jail free card and call it the ‘member states don’t cooperate with olaf’ card. this has to stop. olaf and the eppo need to be properly funded and staffed. member states urgently need to improve their cooperation with the anti-corruption bodies. sweden, ireland and denmark need to join the european public prosecutor, because they are giving a cheap excuse to poland and hungary not to join. finally, if member states don’t cooperate with olaf, we have to cut their funding under the common provisions regulation, because it clearly means that the management and control systems are not working. it has to be clear: if eu money is stolen, we won’t let people get away with it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are talking today about the fight against fraud, and in particular about the cooperation between the two authorities, olaf - the former anti-fraud authority - and the newly created eppo, the public prosecutor's office. the fight against fraud is essential. why is this so important? well, as good europeans, you must be familiar with dante's divine comedy. dante is very surprised when he finds people in the deepest circle of hell, namely, frozen in eternal ice fraudsters and traitors: brutus and judas iscariot. is cheating and betrayal so bad? yes, because cheats and traitors destroy the most important element of human interaction: trust in the goodwill of one's neighbor. and that is why it is of the utmost importance to find out who is cheating and to bring them to justice. however, i see at least two problems in the cooperation between the two authorities, olaf and eppo: the rate of referral of fraud cases to national authorities has already been below 30%. why do you think that this ratio will actually improve with the addition of another authority and with a much greater shortage of skills than there is now? it is also not good that the eppo is withdrawing staff and know-how from olaf, thereby weakening the previous anti-fraud efforts. the commission already said in the first pif report 31 years ago that cooperation between the authorities involved was a success factor. that's the most important thing. you may not want to listen to me now, but i'm a lonely cry in the desert. but if you do not listen to me on this matter, then at least in this advent season listen to the voices of the prophets of the old covenant and prepare your hearts to meet jesus christ the coming and to receive the savior of the world in your heart.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the deterioration of the human rights situation in egypt, in particular the case of the activists of the egyptian initiative for personal rights (eipr) (2020/2912 (rsp)) *. i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words at any of the debates of this sitting and that no blue cards will be accepted. the commission will also be able to make use of the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states. the president of the commission
a writer. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. egypt is not free. in the freedom index, the country is in third place, ladies and gentlemen. and the situation for human rights activists, journalists and lawyers is difficult. these people are simply declared terrorists and imprisoned. this is unacceptable and we here in the european parliament call on the egyptian government to release all those who are simply being arbitrarily arrested. we are particularly demanding the release of patrick zaki, and we are also demanding - and i join my colleagues from the s&d - that the case of giulio regeni be investigated and that those who committed this act be brought to justice. but let me also add very clearly one thing, my colleagues: someone who violates human rights, someone who met in prison people who are fighting for their freedom of expression, someone like that is not honorable.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. to come to the specific issue we're dealing with today: the leaders of the egyptian initiative for personal rights have been released. it seems that they have been treated in accordance with egyptian law at all times. i therefore ask the more general question of what is the basis of the hostility towards egypt in this parliament. is egypt being subjected to a much stricter measure than other countries, or is there a fundamental rejection of the egyptian state? egypt is confronting extremism that threatens us all - including extremism that threatens the coptic community in egypt. while turkey continues to cause instability in the middle east and beyond, egypt is one of the few steadfast states that actually opposes turkish expansionism. egypt is playing a crucial role in libya, and it is egyptian forces that are fighting the syrian militias infiltrated by turkey. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the muslim brotherhood has almost brought egypt to its knees. the egyptian state is confronting all these threats, while also making progress in the economy and education of its citizens, and forming alliances with like-minded countries to achieve a little more stability in the entire region. but we are having endless discussions here to criticize egypt. we don't need a lawsuit. we encourage opposition to the egyptian government, a government that acts in our interest, in the interest of our security. and this constant criticism is putting a strain on our relations with cairo, and it is certainly not in our interest. that is why we must think realistically and pragmatically. egypt faces serious threats to its security from extremism both from within and from outside. that is why it is important for all of us to support egypt constructively and critically, even with different opinions, instead of constantly rejecting it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, today, exactly 10 years ago, mohamed bouazizi set himself on fire starting what has long been called the arab spring, but was actually smashed with violence in so many places including in egypt. in egypt that is today run by a dictator – mr berg – a dictator that brands human rights’ defenders as terrorists, who puts people in jail for years for having not more than whatsapp on their phones. and this dictator was received by president emmanuel macron last week who then officially announced that he will continue to supply this dictator with arms irrespective of his human rights record. dear colleagues, that is carte blanche for macron to do even worse and it is a slap in the face of each and every one who has been fighting for freedom and democracy in the middle east for the last 10 years, because we all know the arms of france, the arms of germany and of so many other countries, have been used against the protesters. i don’t want us to go down this road. that is why we need a real arms embargo. we need to suspend any budget support to this regime, and we need to see all the political prisoners freed.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr berg of the afd: no, the regime in egypt does not represent my interests at all, because i am on the side of human rights, and the human rights situation in egypt is worrying. so let me be very clear: cooperation with the coup d'étatist al-sisi is a betrayal of those who, as a result of the social upheavals, have been demonstrating for months for democratic and social rights and freedoms. al-sisi is a representative of the egyptian oligarchy who has managed to suppress the popular social and democratic movement through the justified outrage against the muslim brotherhood. it is cynical that president macron is putting these human rights violations into perspective and that the european union continues to sell weapons to the regime. it is hypocritical that egypt is also a partner of the eu in the refugee defense. no, basic human rights are not a matter of disagreement. this is not only cynical but also a typical act of unabashed legitimization of imperial interests.
madam president, what a festival of hypocrisy from all of those coming from the left, from the liberals! you support mr macron and then you are the first to shout out that he’s selling arms to the egyptian regime. so why do you support leftist ideology? why do you support mr macron, who calls himself a liberal? where are you liberals? first, you create a problem, and then you try to solve it. first of all, when discussing human rights in egypt, the main problem is the rights of the christians – when people are killed, when priests are hanged and beheaded. this is what is happening now in paris. this is what is happening now in egypt. so, first you create a problem, then you’re the first to shout about wanting to solve that problem. the main group facing prosecution is the christians. so, i’m shouting in the name of the christians in egypt. protect us! protect us! do not sell arms, or fight it with the political tools. christianity and the christmas season come from christ, so merry christmas not ‘happy season’. happy christmas to you all.
president. - i shall not make matters of defence and economic cooperation dependent on these differences of opinion. that was macron's answer, the little napoleon in the elysée, to questions about arms sales to egypt. macron is selling weapons to a dictator who would not hesitate to use them against his own people. the european parliament, meanwhile, is concerned about the struggles of the leaders in hungary and poland, and that is small beer compared to the undermining actions of macron. a deplorable economic situation in france is forcing the young napoleon to his knees. forced by mounting debts, he is trading our european values. what hope can the political prisoners in egypt have if macron is selling arms to al-sisi? what hope does nasrin, the iranian human rights activist who has been imprisoned for years, have when she learns of macron's corrupt setup? the economic situation due to the covid-19 pandemic is worrying. but the hypocrisy and cynicism of european political leaders is disastrous.
madam president, i will of course vote for this resolution, with its many warnings, protests and condemnations. i do so, like most of my colleagues, with conviction, compassion and solidarity with the victims of the abuses just mentioned. unfortunately, too often, the political authorities responsible for the arbitrariness and suffering inflicted on their victims feel immune to any sanction because of the imperatives of realpolitik. and then there are many partners who allow the same practices in their own homes. i see mrs arena nodding, which confirms my point. the free world is still too divided because everyone is, for the most part, pursuing their own interests. that is why i will still end on an optimistic note: the world summit on democracy announced by joe biden should be an opportunity to pave the way for a better structured response from the free world to the leaders responsible for all these abuses.
member of the commission. – madam president, we pay close attention to human rights developments in egypt and address them in various ways. arrests and prosecution of civil society organisations, and people expressing themselves on social media remain a cause for concern. in september 2020 at the 45th united nations human rights council in geneva, the eu raised various human rights issues in egypt, under item 4, including a call to release human rights defenders. the recent arrests of the director and staff members of the egyptian initiative for personal rights, the eipr, underlined once more the worrying situation in this regard. we consider that the eipr provides a critical service to the egyptian people. we expressed our concern in a statement by the spokesperson of the european external action service on 21 november. we welcome as a first step, the release of the three eipr staff members on 3 december, while reiterating our call for the release of mr george patrick zaki, an eipr researcher who has remained in detention since february 2020. we have also noted that the challenges mentioned take place against positive developments in social and economic rights, such as the protection of women amid the covid pandemic, as highlighted in the latest undp un women report that shows egypt is the best performer in the region. further, on 25 november the egyptian government approved the implementing regulations of the 2019 ngo law, which is an improvement from previous legislation and gives more predictability to charity organisations. the protection and promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law are guiding principles of our external action and policies. the new action plan on human rights and democracy 2020—2024, approved in november, reaffirms the eu’s strong commitment to further advancing universal values for all. these commitments also have a central place in the framework of our political engagement and cooperation with egypt. this was also discussed during high representative borrell’s latest visit to cairo on 3 september of this year, as well as that of the president of the european council, mr michel, in november. the eu special representative for human rights, mr gilmore, is also in regular contact with the relevant egyptian counterparts. the eu has a clear interest in egypt’s long—term stability and security. this can only be achieved if human rights are fully implemented and upheld. this remains the guiding torch in our bilateral dialogue with egypt within the framework of our partnership.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, while the final vote will be held on friday 18 december 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. it is appalling that some in france have been outraged by the visit to paris of egyptian president abdel fattah al-sissi, who was elected following the overthrow of his predecessor mohamed morsi, who was close to the muslim brotherhood. abdel fattah al-sisi also made a major contribution to the improvement of the situation of the egyptian copts. this is evidenced by the inauguration in january 2019 of an impressive nativity cathedral in egypt's new administrative capital, and the sharp increase in the number of coptic candidates in the 2020 parliamentary elections. these strong symbols of ecumenism cannot be ignored at a time when christian communities in the near and middle east, and even in sub-saharan africa, seem to be gradually disappearing from the map. so much so that in a report to the former british foreign secretary, the term "genocide" was no longer taboo. these acts must therefore be taken into account in the assessment of this regime, while the fight against islamism is on everyone's mind.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on forced labour and the situation of the uyghurs in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region (2020/2913 (rsp)) *.
a writer. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the resolution on the situation in xinjiang which we are debating today shows the broad agreement of the democratic groups, and that is a good thing. where human rights are trampled on, we show solidarity together. i think it is a scandal that some radical left-wing members of this house have submitted motions on behalf of the gue group in which they express solidarity with the authoritarian communist party propaganda from beijing instead of with the victims of human rights violations. the gue should think about where it really stands. we want to do more than merely criticise the crimes against humanity committed against the uighurs in xinjiang. we also want action to follow. these demands are directed primarily at the political and economic spheres. to be clear, there must be sanctions against those responsible in xinjiang and against companies like xpcc that exploit forced labor. european companies that cannot ensure that they become collaborators with the oppressive regime, that cannot prevent them from becoming collaborators, should leave xinjiang. products of forced labour in uighur are not allowed to enter the eu market. the eu must insist on the ratification of the international labour organisation (ilo) conventions against forced labour in the investment agreement with china. i cannot imagine this house voting in favour if there are no clear commitments in the investment agreement.
author. mr president, the chinese state has been ruthlessly oppressing uyghurs and other muslim minorities in xinjiang for years, and a number of european companies are complicit. the horrors of the chinese state are almost beyond comprehension. of the 10 million uighurs in xinjiang, more than 1 million are in horrific internment camps. 900 000 children have been taken from their parents and placed in state orphanages, and uyghurs are systematically imprisoned, tortured, monitored and forced to undergo abortions and sterilizations. let's call this what it is. the chinese state is committing a crime against humanity, and this week, there was an additional figure. more than half a million: that's the number of uighurs forced by the chinese state to do forced labor, to pick the cotton that our clothes are made of, including by european companies. what we're talking about here is modern slavery, and any involvement in forced labor is absolutely unacceptable. it is intolerable that european companies are involved in this. this cannot go unchallenged. a new eu sanctions regime has recently been adopted to hit the most serious human rights violators swiftly and hard. now that list is empty. i call on the chinese officials and state-owned enterprises responsible for this forced labor, mass incarceration and repression to be the first to add to that list. china must end this criminal campaign today. let me be very clear: there is no place in our european shops for products tainted by uyghur forced labour. any product that violates human rights in the supply chain should therefore be banned. in europe, uyghurs, hong kongers, tibetans and dissidents are safe. in china, their lives are in danger. we will never condone china's brutal campaign of oppression, forced labour and religious persecution. there's no excuse for this anymore. act now, the uighurs need us.
a writer. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on the television screens at home! the dam of silence and false truths is breaking today. every day men, women and children are broken by violence with the sole purpose of giving up their own identity, their own lives. what is happening in xinjiang is a systematic nightmare of mass detentions, human rights violations and mass sterilization of uighur women. we know from a report by adrian zenz that over 500,000 people in xinjiang are forced to work in the cotton industry. the production accounts for 20% of the world's cotton production. we in the european parliament are documenting the greatest slavery and human rights violation in the world today. we in the european parliament are closing ranks today. for too long, decision-makers have been silent. i want to personally apologize for that. with today's resolution on the fate of the uyghurs, rhetoric is finally being turned into practice. we have targeted sanctions against those responsible through the eu's magnitsky act. the resolution calls for the protection of uyghurs in the eu and in third countries. we do not want another summit between the european union and china at which human rights are not also discussed. at the end of the day, we call on the united nations to make an independent fact-finding mission to china. but that's not the end of the road. tibet, mongolia and hong kong also have significant problems with the chinese government and are fighting for freedom. we need to find partners like taiwan who will stand up for freedom even under chinese pressure.
the commission has already done so. of course i condemn forced labour and i condemn child labour. there is no doubt that the uyghur minority is subject to discrimination by the chinese government. and from my point of view, it is clear that the chinese authorities are guilty of serious human rights violations. i am not advocating that forced labor or other forms of discrimination against uighurs should be overlooked. greater transparency by the chinese government on the internal threats facing the country, an immediate shift away from forced and child labor and re-education camps, and a differentiation between the mostly peaceful members of the uyghur minority and those few who have joined extremism could help bring more stability to the region.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in china, the uighurs, the muslim minorities and the tibetans are being dramatically oppressed, and this is well known. hundreds of thousands of uighurs are forced to work in the cotton harvest, and this cotton also ends up on the tables of shops in europe. the eu and national governments need to clearly identify these human rights violations, and companies that produce in china need to review and realign their supply chains - they can't help it. apple, nike, adidas, samsung, vw and bmw - these names must stand for responsibility. we in europe have a problem with huawei designing facial recognition software that recognizes ethnic minorities. we in europe do not want to do business with companies that actively support regimes that commit massive human rights violations. this isn't just a security issue. the eu is now negotiating fair competition and better market access with china in the investment protection agreement. we now expect the german presidency of the council of the european union to spell this out clearly. we do not want products of chinese forced labour in europe. china must ratify the ilo core standards, and human rights are non-negotiable! in no other city in europe do so many uighurs live as in munich, where i come from. dear mehriban, the fate and welfare of the uighurs cannot be indifferent to us in europe!
author. – madam president, nasrin sotoudeh is a human rights lawyer. this means that she uses the laws of her country, iran, to defend her clients, the people of iran, against a regime that does not feel bound by any of these laws. the more nasrin uses these laws, the more absurd become the charges of that regime. the latest one: 33 years and 148 lashes for defending women that took off their hijabs. nasrin has now been 10 years in and out of prison in one of the countries with the cruellest prison conditions, amidst the raging covid pandemic. nasrin sotoudeh really pays a high price for her love of the law and of the people of iran. i’m full of admiration for this unbreakable woman and i think she rightfully deserved the sakharov prize from this parliament. as you all know, nasrin is not the only one. the regime’s repression got a lot crueller recently, with arrests and executions. ruhollah zam was executed last week, while ahmadreza djalali is threatened with execution, and no justice has been done for the thousands of protesters in the streets of iran last year. that is why i think it’s so important that we send two clear signals today. one signal to the regime that if they continue like this they will be even more isolated and subject to targeted sanctions. and one signal to the brave iranians, the vibrant and diverse civil society. you have our full solidarity, our full attention, our full support, as long as this is needed. because, just like nasrin, i hope that one day all the prisons of iran will be turned into museums and parks. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, how many more people have to die? that was my first thought when i heard about the execution of ruhollah zam. my second? the mullahs' regime seems to have no other response to the growing criticism and pressure from the population than brutal violence. the eu is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and integrated approach to the issue of nuclear safety, which will be the basis for the eu's policy on nuclear safety. but i miss clear words especially actions. the eeas did not mention in one syllable that the execution was of a political prisoner whose execution was a violation of freedom of expression, freedom of the press, our european values and human rights. mr borrell, honourable members of the house, we must prevent the execution of any more political prisoners. the next time you have an exchange with the regime, put your finger in the wound, speak out against human rights violations. talk directly to the democratic opposition. let us support role models like nasrin sotudeh or the 14 women who called for chameney's resignation in their direct opposition to the regime. for a peaceful future and a balance of power in the middle east, we need a democratic iran that defends human rights and does not trample on them. i hope that next year we will have good reason to propose the sakharov prize to the iranian opposition and to award it to them.
madam president, the eu commenced trade negotiations with excessive demands for ecj jurisdiction, regulatory alignment on eu terms and maximum eu fishing rights. britain wanted a canada-style deal and regulatory sovereignty. since then, the eu gave way on the ecj in return for uk acceptance of the regulatory status quo. negotiations also shifted from dynamic realignment to rules that would allow brussels to offset high eu costs, imposed by future eu climate change standards, not applicable in the uk. if such sanctions respect wto ceilings and leave britain to trade freely with other countries, uk sovereignty would not be unduly abridged. germany has a huge trade surplus with britain. france gains too. uk trade is vital to ireland, whilst eu trade matters even more to the british economy. in these circumstances, a trade deal is almost an imperative of reason. may i therefore remind the eu that trade deals are about trade and mutual advantage and not about climate change or world rescue missions. nor is it wise to make every issue a point of principle. let me close, unusually perhaps, on a positive note. if reason prevails and a deal is struck, this will be due in no small measure to michel barnier’s commitment, acumen and diplomatic sensitivity. and as for the charge, he’s bypassing parliament, that is the very last thing that crossed my mind as a member of the uk coordination group.
madam president, first of all i want to thank michel barnier and all the negotiators for their endless effort. nevertheless we in a very uncomfortable situation. we have two weeks before the deadline and no one knows what will happen. yes, it is good that we are still negotiating, and it is good that we could prevent a no deal so far, but the situation we are in is really unacceptable. business and citizens do not know what will happen, and the european parliament itself finds in a very difficult dilemma – either, if there is a deal we are creating huge chaos on 1 january, or we just give up our scrutiny rights. it is absolutely clear a deal with a strong level playing field is still the best outcome for everyone, but we at the european parliament cannot make a fool of ourselves and just let go out of hand our scrutiny riots. we are not just a rubber stamp institution and we need proper time. for me the time until 28 december is far too short, and i think we should push for technical prolongation in order to have proper time for scrutiny.
