i have to say, madam president, the greatest is the one who conquers himself. we are currently concerned with the serious fires in australia, and a few months ago it was the amazon in brazil. we are soon going to have to deal with either drought or flooding in europe that is affecting our agriculture, and all the while the greenland ice sheet is melting at an alarming rate. there are indeed enough to worry about, but as politicians we are elected to act on concerns, solve problems and produce results. but it requires that we as politicians overcome our tendency to speak up and spread even more fear. this, of course, is about us being able to create quick calories in the media. i know, but it just makes the path to the results much longer. instead, let us show the citizens of europe, especially the younger generations, that we politicians can actually work together and that we are factually, proactively, responsibly and results-oriented in tackling the climate challenge. that is at least the approach of the epp group in this parliament, and i hope that it is an approach which several groups in this parliament share with us.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for your report, commissioner. last year we european women had our last day of work on 4 november. so on average, european women should have been on holiday on november 4 and the rest of the year if we were to close the pay gap in 2019. that is the equivalent of two months of free work for european women. i hope that together we can make this decade, which we have just entered, the decade of putting equality at the centre. that is why it is a good thing that we have a commissioner for gender equality. but fancy titles alone will not solve anything. i therefore hope that the commission will help to bring about transparency in the area of pay at work. women workers should have the right to know whether they should be paid less than their male colleagues doing the same work. i also hope that the commission will monitor the implementation of the work-life balance directive in the member states. there is no doubt that the unequal distribution of maternity contributes to the large wage gap we are unfortunately seeing today. i look forward to working with you and ensuring equal pay for equal work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. child benefit, maternity rules, border controls, the right to danish daily allowance and welfare benefits - these are all examples of the way in which the eu is taking control away from us. the eu will decide more and more and more. yes, there is nothing that the eu does not think it should be involved in. but now the eu elite not only wants to take control away from us, they also want to take away our flags. it seems that it has been decided that we shall no longer have our national table banners at our seats. for me, the flag on the table was a sign of deep respect and humility for the many, many danes who have entrusted me and the danish people's party with their vote and confidence. if the eu elite wants to lecture me on what to do with our flag, i can tell the eu elite what to do with our flagpole. i am not going to correct myself, because i know and i remember what i stood for in the elections and what i promised the danes, and that was the fight to preserve the nation state.
i have to say, madam president, in recent years we have seen how the european court of justice and the crisis policy of the eu have weakened the trade union movement and the right to collective bargaining. so it is of course good that the european commission is finally acknowledging that there is a huge problem of growing inequality. but the proposal to impose a statutory minimum wage falls far short of the mark. i fear that a statutory minimum wage will be another blow to the trade union movement. instead, there is a need to strengthen collective agreements. let us have a social protocol that puts the rights of workers above the interests of the eu's internal market. let us enable local authorities to opt out of cheating companies when they make public tenders. and let's strengthen the trade union movement so we can ensure equal conditions for equal work and stop the gross exploitation of our foreign colleagues.
i have to say, madam president, the eu is an elite project. the eu is a patron of multinational corporations and the richest. this is at the expense of the climate, the environment and the wage earners. instead, we need an equal democratic cooperation that puts citizens, nature and the climate at the centre. that is why we need a fundamental debate on how we work together in europe. we do not need a pre-determined debate where the conclusion is always more centralisation, more unregulated markets. we need the open and effective involvement of citizens, civil society and national parliaments. that is why we are voting in favour of this resolution. we're never afraid to ask the citizens. we also want to send a clear signal to the european commission that if there is no real involvement of the citizens - if there is no real popular involvement - the citizens will never forgive it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i follow up what my colleague martin hojsík said, namely that the eu is the union of europeans and that we are here today because europeans elected us to be here. but i also know that there are many europeans who feel that the eu is far away. they do not understand what is going on and feel that it is bureaucracy and technocracy. how many of us really understand comitology? there are few people in europe, and there are few people in this room. and if we ourselves cannot understand and explain the comitology, how can we expect our voters - our europeans - to understand and accept the way in which decisions are taken? if we cannot explain our legislative processes, we are failing to respect the basic democratic principles on which our union is founded. it is a duty that we can explain our democracy and our laws to our voters. i therefore support the renew europe group's desire to reform the comitology principles and am glad to hear that commissioner šefčovič is also supporting this.
i have to say, madam president, the situation of refugees on the greek islands is absolutely catastrophic. overcrowded camps, open sewers, flooded tents. this is the situation of tens of thousands of refugees. worst of all is to think of the thousands of unaccompanied children sitting there in the mud. sitting alone in the dark. sitting completely unprotected from assault. it is not just a greek disaster, it is a european disaster. and it is a man-made disaster. the misery on the greek islands is a direct result of the eu-turkey agreement and a completely misguided eu policy. ladies and gentlemen, it is time for action. it's time to raise the herd. let's help the children in need. let us have a solidarity distribution of refugees and let us stop this humanitarian catastrophe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. all that glitters is not gold! and not all automated decision-making is artificial intelligence. that is why i am glad that we are not only talking about artificial intelligence here today, but about all kinds of automated decision-making. many in our single market already use automated decisions, and more are coming to the and that is good. so it's important that the framework we're setting now applies to all the technology we're going to see, and not just the buzzword of the day: artificial intelligence. why do we have to? we have to because a decision is not infallible because it was made by a computer. technology is shaped by the same fallacies and prejudices that we humans are subject to. that's why the technology has to be artificial. it may be a bit old-fashioned to talk about code, but we must remember that the responsibility for a code's decisions is never the code itself. a decision made by a code must still be accountable to a human being. when a decision is made by a computer, it still has to meet the same requirements as a decision made by humans. the decision must be capable of being explained and defended. in fact, we may need to be able to make greater demands on automated decisions than on human ones. we must have the courage to question the decision, even when we get the message: "computer says no". i look forward to the commission's reply and to the forthcoming white paper.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. thank you for this debate. taking good care of your spine is important for a human being and it is crucial for the eu. as a former nurse and owner/manager of my own business for 12 years, i know a little bit about both. i have two specific questions: firstly, many smes unfortunately find themselves burdened with the problems stemming from the final stages of trilogue negotiations. they simply do not have time to be captured and exterminated. what will the commission do to prevent this more effectively in the future? my second question is what will the commission do to strengthen the access and activity of green smes to the global market through eu trade agreements? many smes have a lot to do with the opportunities and challenges of the single market. and many people find the practices of trade agreements difficult and time-consuming to understand. but the climate challenge requires that the many green technologies being developed, especially by smes, be brought up quickly to a level where they can make the difference they can make to the climate outside the eu and thus to european competitiveness.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the green paper on the environment, which is the subject of the debate, is a very important document, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. we are now hearing school examples of green populism when it comes to the fourth pci list. it's sad, and it's a bad omen for the green transition. the fourth pci list includes the so-called 'north sea wind power hub', a cooperation between denmark, the united kingdom, germany, the netherlands, norway, sweden, ireland, france and luxembourg. a project with the potential to supply around 20% of the eu's energy consumption. if we reject the fourth pci list, this project will be postponed indefinitely. the opponents of the fourth pci list are dissatisfied with the gas projects on the list. this is despite the fact that gas is an important source of energy in the transition to a fossil-free future. the new list actually contains only 32 gas projects, compared with 53 in the old list. let us now move pragmatically to the green transition, which is too important for populist short-cuts. the fourth pci list is an important step towards a sustainable future with security of supply and green jobs.
for the id group. i am not sure that this is the case. the british are and should remain our best friends, closest allies and closest partners. i want an agreement with the british that clearly accommodates and respects the british wish to be able to decide more for themselves at home in the nation state, for example, about who they want to allow into their own country or to give access to different services. at the same time, i want to have a strong cooperation with the british, for example in the field of trade, where it is very much at home, in my own country, in denmark, in order to be able to continue to hold on to one of our closest and best trading partners. in fact, denmark joined what was the forerunner of the european union precisely because we wanted to continue trading with the united kingdom. when the british withdrew, they made it clear that they were not withdrawing from the world or from europe, but that they were simply withdrawing from the european system. i find that in many ways sympathetic. i hope we can make a deal with the british that means brexit is respected, while at the same time we can continue to have a very close partnership to the delight and benefit of the british and the rest of us, where we really share interests and values; a cooperation based on common sense and the desire for the common good instead of the quasi-neo-religious cult of european federalism which unfortunately can happen from time to time in this house.
i have to say, madam president, the revolution in syria began as a popular uprising against a brutal dictatorship. the uprising was met with extreme repression by the assad regime, and the uprising was failed by europe. now syria has become a battleground for regional and global powers. turkish president erdogan is using extremist islamist militias to ethnically cleanse and conquer northwestern syria. putin and the iranian clergy are using the assad regime to commit war crimes and mass murder. mr borrell, the eu must speak out against erdogan, putin and assad. mr borrell, the eu must support the kurds and the pro-democracy forces in their fight against daesh and the assad regime. let us recognize the autonomy of northeastern syria diplomatically. let us impose economic sanctions on erdogan until he stops the invasion and let us demand the deployment of un peacekeeping forces so that the civilian population in north-west syria can be protected from ethnic cleansing and aggression. mr. borrell, it is time to act! (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – of course there is due political interest in syria, but as we all saw, there was a peaceful demonstration by hundreds of thousands of civilians in syria demanding freedom and democracy, and that cry for help was met with brutal oppression from the assad regime. what shall we do? the eu must stand on the side of the kurds and the pro-democratic forces in syria to fight for democracy and freedom. that’s the only way we can have stability and peace in syria and in the middle east.
madam president, the digital world, the internet, has been removing barriers to work and been removing the power of gatekeepers through many decades now. digitalisation has provided for more opportunities, more power for the individual and more possibilities. it is also the opportunity to specialise, even in rural areas, to create your own job, to seek your own opportunities where it would not have been possible before. this requires, however, that we have a high—quality internet provided in these areas. that is why we need to extend the network services also in rural areas, so that we provide greater opportunities for the individual to create their own jobs and their own opportunities. we need to remember to embrace the opportunities of digitalisation and not only focus on the challenges, because a digital social europe is the future and that’s what we will be creating together.
i have to say, madam president, my dear inspector. thank you for your presentation. it is a real pleasure to see you taking up the task of an equal europe again. i welcome this strategy to that extent. i hope that this strategy will stop sending empty signals to the women of europe that we are taking their problems seriously. it's time to put action behind the words, which i know you're ready to do. it is particularly important that we succeed in taking the strategy to all corners of europe with the promise that the political will is with women and not against them. and here i mean all the places in europe where there is no complete freedom of access to free abortion, all the places where women are not protected from domestic violence by the istanbul convention, all the places where harassment on the street restricts women's access to public spaces, and all the places where women are still paid less than their male counterparts for the same work. it must end now - it is unacceptable. the commission's strategy is a first step. the next step must be concrete legislation, because that is the only way we can make progress. we should not be afraid to impose sanctions, because in the last few years it has become increasingly clear that they are necessary. the women of europe are demanding action and we must deliver it. i look forward to seeing our progress together.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am a farmer myself and i am very much interested in the farm-to-fork strategy. food and eating are very important to us humans. our food has to meet many requirements: it has to be healthy, it has to be nutritious, it has to be produced sustainably, and it has to be climate-friendly. can the commission inform me whether the strategy will include measures which will make it easier for our consumers to see how our food is produced, whether it is climate friendly and whether animal welfare and health are intact? i would also like to ask the commission how it intends to cater for all farms in the eu, both large and small. i think it is absolutely crucial that we focus on making all farming in the eu sustainable and not focus on size. it is absolutely essential that all farmers are involved in this process.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu system should be ashamed. the external borders have never worked, and the external borders will never work. there is simply no willingness to do so in the eu system. the turkish erdogan has de facto taken control of the external borders, which are hanging in the balance, and the majority of irresponsible politicians in this parliament are even paying him for it with billions of euros paid by the taxpayers. i think it's disgusting! the system has made a fundamental mistake. turkey is not a friend, it is an enemy. erdogan is not just a president, but a dictator and a scoundrel. and many of the migrants who come to europe are not real refugees. the only thing that has lived up to its reputation is the eu, which has succeeded in exposing its own incompetence and impotence in dealing with the continent's biggest problem: the mass immigration of muslims from the middle east and africa. (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card answer. thank you for the question. the answer to my question is quite clear: we need closed external borders and to implement what is called the australian model, that is to say that you cannot get protection in europe but if you need protection you can get it elsewhere. a large proportion of the people who come here are not entitled to protection. it's about migration. these are not people who are suffering or who may be in immediate need of protection, but people who are coming here for economic reasons and they cannot come to europe, and we must stop this completely.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the situation on the greek-turkish border and erdogan's attempts to squeeze more money out of the eu and beyond those who are carrying out the important humanitarian task reveal that the frontex border agency is not yet functioning properly. it is not just about putting 10,000 border guards on the ground. it's not about sending more money either. frontex is not working well enough in its structure, its tools, its organisation and its cooperation models with the national border guards! i wrote that to you, commissioner johansson, on your first day of work in december 2019. so i would like to ask you again: what will you do to re-design frontex and make it the attractive employer and partner that makes europeans feel secure that our external borders are guarded and that the human smuggling industry is stopped?
mr president, i would like to thank you. when the lungs are attacked by an aggressive virus in a body where the heart is not big enough or strong enough, the person dies. then a child loses his parents and a lover his beloved. that's what we're learning from covid-19, but we're also learning a lot more. we learn that many european companies are like lungs. we are already talking about them as the backbone of millions of jobs and the economic potential of the european union. but now, in the coronavirus crisis, they're our lungs, too. just as we sometimes liken the climate to the lungs that are supposed to provide our children and grandchildren with a planet that we may be familiar with giving them. these lungs, europe's small and mediumsized enterprises and the climate, need a strong heart, a heart that keeps production and innovation going in the workplace and brings bread to the table of millions of families, a heart that keeps the exchange of goods going between businesses and their customers, a heart that creates the economy to research and develop what we need or buy the mouthwashes we need. the eu needs a heart that can drive the necessary green transition so that, despite the 2020 corona crisis, it is a co2-neutral eu by 2050. the heart of what i am describing is, of course, the internal market. we created it as a consequence of our never wanting to go to war with each other again. it is therefore essential that we protect the single market, our common heart, which must beat - also through the coronavirus crisis - regularly, tirelessly and completely free of barriers. only in this way can we implement and disseminate, in particular, the climate initiatives and solutions that the planet needs and that the rest of the world will look to the eu to learn from and, not least, to buy from, even after the acute phase of the corona crisis has been overcome. i pray that we will take good care of the heart of the european union, our single market, during the coronavirus crisis.
mr president, i would like to thank you. covid-19 hurts - for those who lose loved ones, their life's work, or their jobs. when others are hurting, it is a natural act of neighborly love to reach out to help. this can be done in many ways, but never so that addiction develops without demands for personal responsibility and room to adjust as is best for the individual - the individual as well as the nation. that is why this is a dangerous decision which is going through the european parliament. not because of the intention, which is good enough, but because the content is more union, tax scraps in brussels and a distribution of almost infinite billions without conditions - completely unhealthy for what has made the eu what we know today and want to preserve through the corona crisis. the eu is a global role model for democracy, green transition and innovation. we are because up to now we have celebrated the sovereign responsibility and the capacity for cooperation of nation states, expressed in the moderate common economy, the focus on the cross-border challenges and the value of learning and lifting each other up in healthy and fair competition to be the best. that is why i am not voting for the resolution.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i say to the house: without knowing, you could be infected right now. i, too, could be infected. without showing a single sign of infection, i could be infecting the people i stand next to. digital technology is a tool in the fight against the spread of covid-19, and it can be both beneficial and effective to trace contacts in order to notify people at risk. the use of the applications must be strictly and exclusively limited to the purpose of covid-19 tracing. tracing applications should assist manual tracing used for centuries to combat epidemics. applications are not a panacea to combat the virus, but a complementary tool. we have to trace the virus, not the european citizens. we unite against the coronavirus while we safeguard our fundamental rights. we must insist on mandatory standards and strong guarantees for their preservation, especially the right to privacy and data protection. we do not have to choose between our rights and our health. we must ensure ethical, transparent and secure use of these applications. therefore, we need a european coordinated approach also ensuring european-wide interoperability. firstly, we must agree at a european level on privacy by design and data minimisation. secondly, using such applications must be based on the explicit, freely given and informed consent. it should never be mandatory. we do not want immunity passports. we want to stop the virus from travelling. thirdly, technology will not be effective without the trust of people. citizens need to receive adequate and objective information on tracing contact policies, their content, their purpose and expected outcomes. finally, the use and deployment of contact tracing applications must be subject to continuous and strict monitoring, technical evaluation and scientific scrutiny. we must ensure that these applications are safe for our citizens and have their trust, and that the applications serve the purpose of tracing covid-19.
i have to say, madam president, the conference on the future of europe is a great tribute to the european union. the conclusion will end up being more eu and more money for the eu. it is now almost a year since i was elected to the european parliament. i was a sceptic then, but now i'm anti-european. i want denmark out of the eu. we should not be forced to give out child support, child support or any other kind of behavioural benefits. i will no longer pay for the bureaucracy, the travelling circus, the gigantic eu budget or continue to hand out billions in gifts. i do not want the eu to have open borders and mass immigration, and i do not want the eu to undermine our labour market or give a free hand to our social, health or immigration policies. i want control back, i want freedom back - i want denmark back. you have convinced me that this system can neither be fixed nor saved. this system is doomed to the dustbin of history, and i am sure that one day in the future denmark will leave the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, chancellor merkel, for putting the priorities of the german presidency on the table. i am very worried about them, especially those in the foreigners' area. when you, chancellor merkel, handled the foreigners area back in 2015, it was under the slogan "wir schaffen das", and suddenly europe became a big mess, with more than one million people migrating into europe from africa and the middle east. your foreign policy is not the solution, but it is the problem. i will not divide the flow of migrants between eu countries, i will stop the flow of migrants, i will close the external border and i will protect our communities. europe must not be a hotbed for islamists, foreign fighters and other scoundrels who, under the pretext of seeking freedom, come here precisely to undermine our freedom and our society. i have to go. your foreign policy has brought great destruction to the entire european continent. i will do everything i can to limit the damage that you and your policies have caused!
for the ppe group. the climate and the environment are about to be destroyed! at the same time, the world's population is growing, and more mouths need to be fed. here too, the eu has a very special role as a 'first mover' for sustainable plant protection products. in fact, the commission itself was on the point of doing so when you put forward your proposal for a european green pact last year, and we in the ppe group have not forgotten that. that is why we are now presenting you with a resolution calling for you to present a chemical strategy for sustainability as soon as possible. one of the main ingredients is to make the fast-track registration of low-risk pesticides a real fast-track. it's no good just having it in the name. european companies are inventing more and more sustainable plant protection products for the benefit of the environment and public health, but registration is slowing down, and so the new, environmentally friendly solutions are not reaching farmers, either in europe or in the rest of the world, and that is simply not right! now, turn the fast-track into a real fast-track! we owe it to the planet and the mouths to be fed, but also to our innovative farmers, who are often blamed for the stressed conditions of the environment. that is not fair, and it is not even reasonable!
for the ppe group. everyone must be involved in making the eu co2-neutral by 2050, including shipping, no doubt about it! and what is being added now could actually result in a reduction of at least 40% by 2030. perhaps we could have gone higher, but where we are now, we are already there, where we have taken some long strong nautical miles in respect of shipping being an international industry where the eu does not dictate everything, but has an important role in pulling the whole of the world's shipping into the right course for our collective climate. the eu thus has an important first mover role in the green transition of the planet. but the first movers are also the companies in the eu shipping industry, which have been making a great effort for several years to decarbonise their activities. they have done so by making effective use of the mrv co2 reporting system, which is now to be revised to make it an even better tool. that is why the epp and i in particular are pleased that we in the european parliament this week are hopefully arriving at a good negotiating mandate for the forthcoming trilogue between us and the council, a mandate which combines high ambitions with respect for those who bear the brunt of the burden. first movers in all the eu's industries, who are also in the middle of the green transition, they are watching from the sidelines and must of course see that the european parliament both recognises and continues to support that it is always worthwhile to do your best. what we are not happy with, and therefore do not support in the epp, is to use the specific case, a revision of the mrv regulation, to throw the whole of eu shipping into the co2 quota system, the ets, without a proper impact assessment and without an independent and thoroughly prepared legislative proposal. it is simply a matter of hasty thinking, which is neither good legislative practice nor, indeed, serves the purpose of giving the eu the real opportunity to be the world's beacon for co2 reduction. with these remarks, i look forward to the vote on wednesday and thank you for the challenging and, fortunately, constructive cooperation that has been enjoyed so far. thank you!
mr president, we are again discussing turkey. once again turkey has gone too far, and once again the dictator erdogan is showing that he is a great danger to europe, this time to greece and cyprus. how long is this circus gonna go on? i have said it before and i say it again: stop thinking you can reason with erdogan! he is not europe's friend, he is our enemy. he has calculated that the eu will do nothing but hold diplomatic meetings of understanding and drink coffee of dialogue. if the eu wants to get a grip on erdogan, it must treat him for what he is: a bully. bullies in a schoolyard don't get nicer because the wannabes are handing them candy bars, just like erdogan doesn't get nicer because you're filling his pockets with taxpayer money. close the borders with turkey completely. make it clear that turkey must never, ever become a member of the eu and close the coffers to turkey, today rather than tomorrow!
mr. chairman, please. dear president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, the planet is running a fever, the ice is melting, the forests are burning. climate action is urgently needed and must be taken quickly if we are to avoid the crisis spiraling out of control. we know from science that 55 percent reduction by 2030 is not enough, we need at least 65 percent reduction if we're going to meet the paris agreement. if we don't do what's necessary, the catastrophe will hit us hard. commission president, listen to the youth, listen to the climate movement, listen to the science and take the necessary climate action now.
mr president, commission president von der leyen, in your speech you said that migration was an enrichment for europe. you're wrong! immigration from africa and the middle east has not been a source of wealth for europe. not in my home country, denmark, not anywhere else. in turn, this has led to increased crime and high costs. i think that this commission and previous commissions are failing in their responsibility for the european continent. but you're right about one thing, and that is that there is a them and a us. and there's a particular them and us in this house. there is an eu elite that for years has neglected to make our external borders secure, that has spent energy fighting our national border controls instead. and then there is a us who will, at any cost, defend our countries, our continent, and hand it over to a better future than we ourselves received from previous generations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: thank you for a good speech. the eu is facing incredibly complex challenges, many more than when we started working together last year. we're really going to be climbing steep mountains together, and it's going to take a lot out of all of us. some people need to learn to work together. others need to spend more time on individual issues, while others need to be more ambitious, especially on climate. but we must all remember that we have only been able to sit in this room because the voters have confidence in us and trust that together we can make europe a better place to live and a stronger role model for the rest of the world. we must not betray that trust. whether it is a matter of reducing co2 to the maximum or raising the hammer at the moment when the rule of law is violated, we must behave properly towards each other, towards the task and at all times with the will to deliver results. so thank you for giving more impetus to a 2030 climate target well above 55%, but unfortunately you did not describe a proactive and effective penalty fund that better fits the inviolable principles of the rule of law in the eu. i look forward to a good year of work
author. – madam president, last june, the un high commissioner for human rights presented an alarming report on the human rights violations in the philippines, where the situation is horrendous. for half a decade, the so-called war on drugs has led to thousands of killings by illegal police actions and death squads. hundreds of thousands of people have been arrested. in these five years, the european parliament has written four declarations concerning the state of the human rights in the philippines, but the situation has not improved whatsoever. on the contrary, since last year, the country has actually withdrawn from the international criminal court jurisdiction, and recently there has been a resurgence of extra-judicial killings, assassinations of human rights activists and intimidation and prosecutions of journalists. the most notorious is the former cnn journalist, maria ressa, who is now exposed to one hundred years in prison as a result of all the charges against her. the philippines should adopt and implement the recommendations from the un report and, without substantial improvement, we as the european union should suspend the philippines’ beneficial trade preferences with us.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, are we to accept that a number of eu countries are violating fundamental principles of the rule of law and democratic rights? the answer is a resounding no! but if we look at what has happened in hungary under orban, if we look at what has happened in poland with the current right-wing government, if we look at developments in bulgaria, it is clear that the eu has failed to defend human rights and democracy. if the eu is to boast of being the guardian of democracy and human rights, fine words are not enough. then action is needed. we need independent and continuous monitoring of the respect for democratic principles and human rights in the individual member states. we need a clear-cut consequence for governments that choose to violate the rights of citizens. that is why the eu's coffers must be smashed in the face of orban and all those who violate basic human rights and democracy. it is not just a question of ensuring the democratic rights of hungarian and polish citizens. it is about all citizens of the eu deserving that their human rights and the rule of law be respected and that those who violate them suffer the consequences. that is not the case today, and that must change.
i have to say, madam president, we must take care of the taxpayers' money, and that is why i naturally support the idea of having a discussion about what requirements a country must meet in order to have access to the eu's staggering billions. but let me say two things in this connection: firstly, it pains me to see countries like my own having to pay much more for a european project which, against the recommendation of my party, years ago opened the door to a group of countries into the european union on the basis of some very naive notions and where democracies are fragile. and our danish tax dollars are going to fall! the eu made a mistake many years ago, and now you have a problem with these countries being big beneficiaries of eu aid. if it were up to me, many of these billions in aid would not exist at all. if we had shut down many of the eu's money tanks, much of the problem would have been solved by itself. secondly, if you really wanted to take a stand against the rule of law, you would have started from a completely different place. so you started with turkey. although not a member, turkey receives billions of euros from the eu. let's start there. but there is no will to do so - oddly enough. there are many things in europe that can be rightly criticised, but i think hypocrisy is running down the walls in this chamber when you are at the same time giving a hand to the ruthless dictator in turkey.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu has become a strong economy because of our diversity. diversity is a central part of the eu's cultural dna. i can therefore easily understand why many people are puzzled by the slow progress of diversity in some boards, especially when you look at the ratio of women to men. but even though i'm a woman and born under the sign of pisces, i'm against quotas. i will never accept being elected to anything just because i'm a woman. as a former business owner, i will never allow myself as a member of the european parliament to interfere in the composition of the boards of directors of european business owners. they know best. but apparently, they can get smarter. because there are clearly many benefits of having women on boards that far too many companies either don't know about or don't know how to activate in their industry. benefits that can make the eu's economy even stronger, and we need them more than ever. therefore, will the commission and the council not do more to spread awareness of the benefits of diversity on boards? let us hear more about the wise carrots instead of the symbolic political whips.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the climate law is a big part of the green transition over the next 30 years. it is important that the eu takes the lead and shows the way in the green transition. the left supports an ambitious target of a 65% reduction for all member states by 2030. i've been a senior member of the agriculture committee and i helped write the climate bill. agriculture, environment and climate are complementary, not opposite. that is why we must have concrete solutions on the table. i propose that the eu should support farmers in absorbing co2 from the soil. there is a huge potential if we establish a separate quota system to suck and store co2 in the soil. it creates opportunities to finance the green transition. i have tabled an amendment on this which i hope we can vote on tomorrow. we also need common standards to measure the climate footprint of farmers through a common assessment of a climate change account. the agricultural sector will make a major contribution to the green transition, but it must not undermine food security or push production out of the eu. my proposal on food safety is in the report of the committee on the environment.
i have to say, madam president, i guess we all dream of a simpler world, an easier life, and a guarantee that everything will end well. that's the way we humans are. but that's just not how the world is designed, and especially not the challenges of climate change. so it is our paramount task as politicians to have the courage to set both the course and the pace so that we reach the ultimate goal by 2050, without sending jobs and co2 out of the eu and making everyday life more expensive than ordinary people can afford. the eu's climate law is therefore more than a single figure that has been too much in the debate, namely the 2030 reduction target. whether it is 55, 60 or 65 is basically irrelevant if the tools and especially the support are not present in reality, and not only on social media. so i am frankly ashamed that we have not focused more on the tools, for example the proposal for sector-specific and cross-border strategic climate partnerships for companies and researchers, who can find role models and savings here to make the latest technologies flourish more and faster. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that whatever 2030 targets you vote for tonight, you will vote for these strategic green partnerships.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, i will speak in danish today so that we can have a little linguistic diversity in this parliament. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur very much for the great work and the good cooperation. i appreciate that the concerns of the green group have been heard and that many of our ideas have been taken up. unfortunately, we cannot vote for this report anyway because of the words around financial deregulation, which we see as a major challenge. maybe there's not much to be said for how it ended. if you look at the commission's expert group, it was full of financial sector lobbyists and interest groups with one goal in mind, financial deregulation. the commission is obliged to set up a mixed group of experts, and that is why we have asked the european ombudsman to look into this and i look forward to her reply. so i hope that when we see the commission's action plan in this area and in the work that follows, that the diversity of the expert groups will be taken into account and that we will have a more balanced report. we need a capital market which is transparent and where there is proper consumer protection. where we have sound capital markets and where financial deregulation is not the goal, but financial stability. i therefore look forward very much to working with you again, commissioner, and also with our rapporteur on this important area and important work.
i have to say, madam president, this is an incredibly important issue. money laundering is a fuel for other forms of serious crime, terrorism, gang crime, corruption and other organised crime. in other words, it is very, very important that we make a strong effort and that our countries become better at dealing with the fight against money laundering. i do not necessarily believe that this is just a question of more eu regulation. i think, on the other hand, that there is a need for better enforcement of the legislation that already exists; for the various countries to be better able to inform and help each other, to exchange information, to complement each other's work. whatever the ambitions, it is in the member states that the muscles must be used to solve this problem. so let's drop all the big toasts and actually focus on the practical things that are already legislated for, make it work and take action against crime.
i have to say, madam president, big-time criminals, violent crime syndicates, drug cartels, arms smugglers, terrorists and corrupt oligarchs have infiltrated the financial system. i'm afraid that's not news. what's new is that the fincen files put names and flesh and blood on a tiny corner of the rot. in denmark, the revelations have hit the biggest bank of them all, danske bank. decades of deregulation and starvation of control of the banks and the financial sector have given criminals far too easy a play. we need an international effort, a targeted effort. we need tougher regulation of banks, we need better public supervision and a public community bank. ladies and gentlemen, when the eu removes the cayman islands from the list of tax havens, it is not only blaming a notorious tax haven, but it is also helping to weaken the fight against corruption and money laundering. i can't do that. we must fight against money laundering and tax evasion!
madam president, i will continue this speech in danish so that even danske bank can also hear me. – fru formand! det er lidt sjovt at sidde fire danske kollegaer herinde i dag, men det er måske ikke så underligt, for mellem 2007 og 2015 strømmede 1 500 mistænkelige milliarder kroner igennem danske banks afdeling i estland, uden at bankerne opdagede noget, og uden at finanstilsynene talte ordentligt sammen og kunne sætte ind over for det. i forrige uge fik vi så lidt flere informationer om dette, da vi med fincen så, at det var en del af et organiseret netværk af kriminelle bagmænd, der bruger etablerede banker som danske bank til at hvidvaske enorme summer penge. det er penge, der er forbundet til ulovlig våbenhandel, narkokarteller og terrorisme; og det er penge, som ville have været langt bedre brugt på den klimalov, vi vedtog i dag, eller på velfærd ude i medlemslandene. nu venter vi jo så spændt på at høre, hvordan kommissionens hvidvaskmyndighed kommer til at se ud. det er vist overflødigt at sige, at den bliver nødt til at levere, og at det skal være så stærkt som overhovedet muligt. fincen-filerne viste også, at 1/5 af alle aktiviteter strømmede igennem caymanøerne, og som min kollega fra enhedslisten sagde, valgte man alligevel at fjerne caymanøerne fra skattelylisten. det er ikke godt nok. det er lige så absurd, som det lyder, og eu’s finansminister bliver nødt til at revidere listen. i den grønne gruppe kommer vi til at presse på for en stærk hvidvaskmyndighed og en stærk skattelyliste, og vi glæder os til samarbejdet.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is unlikely that anyone would be surprised if he were not appalled by the many cases of elderly people in care homes across the eu who have been let down in the worst way possible by the coronavirus crisis. but as a nurse with many years of experience in the social and health sectors, i know that there are many differences between the institutions. these differences are of course national, and let us not forget that health and social care is a national responsibility, both in terms of quality and quantity and, above all, in terms of the economy. i have a feeling that we in this parliament might be tempted to unleash a monster of paper-like figures and heavy reports full of demands, so that we can try to drag them down on all the countries and all the institutions, because we are certainly trying to generalize what is also about culture, competence and management to the individual institutions in each country. we can then unleash these expensive paper-people on each other in surely emotional debates here in the house, where we can shame countries and hit hundreds of thousands of amazingly skilled employees who are putting in a tremendous amount of effort every single day. it creates false hopes and fosters local displacement of responsibility, and none of the residents of the nursing homes get anything out of it. what is needed is for the eu to offer itself as the capable host, coordinator and facilitator of much more cooperation across borders and institutional types to learn from each other and lift each other up. so what is the commission going to do to put in motion such an irrevocable and fundamentally ethical commitment, and when does the commission expect the residents to feel a clear difference in their daily lives?
for the renew group. thank you, madam president and madam commissioner! i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am speaking to you from the european parliament building here in copenhagen. i'll start by asking you: do you remember the good old days back in 2010, when we still believed that the new and wonderful internet would by itself open and democratize public debate, give everyone a voice, enable oppressed populations to organize and topple dictators? i remember those days. a dream of an open internet for an open and free world. but unfortunately, that was not the case. we were wrong! a lot of public debate has moved to online platforms, and that has given them a huge impact on our democracy - and unfortunately, not for the better. we've seen how the business model of platforms has been a fertile ground for conspiracy theories and polarization, because it's precisely this type of content that creates interaction and makes you stay just a little bit longer. it is not a business model that has our public debate and the well-being of democracy in mind. that's why we need to legislate and make demands on the platforms. first, the platforms must be transparent and open to public scrutiny. the platforms shall have rules for, and continuously evaluate, their content guidelines and engage in a dialogue about them. secondly, the platforms must not become censorship machines with upload filters. the removal of illegal content must be done through a transparent process and with human oversight, with the obvious exception of clearly illegal material such as incitement to terrorism. thirdly, and lastly, the responsibility for resolving disputes between users and the platform should not lie with the platforms themselves. we're not putting the fox on the goose either! online platforms have given us countless opportunities, but we need to address the challenges they present and tackle the challenges properly. and that is precisely what the report by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights is about. that is why we must dare to make demands on the platforms of greatest power. as pippi longstocking would have said, when you're extra large, you have an extra obligation to be fair to others. i hope the commission will listen and choose to follow our recommendations, because then europeans will be one step closer to a freer and more open internet. thank you for speaking!
mr. chairman, please. agriculture plays a crucial role in the green transition. farmers are part of the solution, not part of the problem. in my view, the eu must support the green transition in agriculture. that is why the agricultural reform we are voting on today is absolutely crucial. it is the greenest common agricultural policy we have ever seen. i am working to ensure that agricultural policy sets the stage for the next many years of struggle for the climate, the environment and biodiversity. that is why i have been fighting for the new model, the gross-revenue model. the model ensures that we get more nature, more biodiversity and simpler rules. we need to grow more than grain, grass and corn, we also need to grow biodiversity and climate. i hope that most of you will vote for amendment no 1148. it is important that we work for a coherent agricultural policy in the eu. we must therefore ensure that there is coherence between the cap and the climate law. in the committee on agriculture, i am responsible for the climate law which we voted on earlier this month, where i proposed a focus in the cap on farming, that is to say, absorbing and storing co2 in the soil. we need to put some concrete proposals on the table, and fortunately the proposal to store co2 in the soil got a large majority. in the forthcoming agricultural reform it is very important that we ensure flexibility and not one solution. there is a big difference between cyprus in the east, sicily in the south and finland in the north. we must therefore ensure that the agricultural reform is flexible enough to allow individual member states to adapt to it. we are working for a simpler rule in the common agricultural policy, our farmers need a simpler and more reasonable framework. i hope you all will vote for a more sustainable future. a future where farmers are brought into the climate fight. the agricultural reform is the foundation of the farmers' economy and of millions of farmers across europe. we must give them that by voting for the greenest common agricultural policy ever. the eu must lead the way, and only in this way will we achieve the common goal of climate neutrality by 2050.
mr. chairman, i have to ask you... oh, my god. the issue of labelling vegetable copies of meat products is therefore an interesting one. it can easily be used to make fun of the eu again. there are so many examples of people in brussels losing their minds again. who does not remember the examples of the curly cucumbers, the licorice stick and the cinnamon snails? i've been very careful about what i think. i've been a vegetarian for years. because it's one of my ways of contributing to the climate, and so meatless diet actually fits my body really well, which is in menopause. but i do think that plant-based meat copies should be given their own names instead of being allowed to mutiny in the refrigerator. i refuse to give in to a climate fundamentalist and actually make life easier for lazy marketing departments in food companies who want to secure new market shares because we consumers have started to question the carbon footprint of traditional products in the single market. i refuse to help make free citizens in a democracy more stupid than they should be about what's actually in their shopping cart. and then i actually want to take very good care of the common food heritage in europe, where the language of what we eat can only get richer and richer. so, ladies and gentlemen, i am naturally voting for a sausage being a sausage, and everything else is nonsense. welcome to the club.
madam president, i hope that you can hear and see me down in the parliament. i’m speaking from the danish office. thank you very much to the rapporteur for the work on this file, as there is a strong need to make sure that the social aspects are a key element in the semester. this is the way that we will make social process progress in europe, and especially now, when every country is experiencing downward-turning economies. we need to create incentives for the member states not to let the burden of a recession fall on the people most in need, and here the european semester is a golden opportunity for us to create these incentives. austerity and tight budgets are not the way to manage the crisis. making sure that people have decent lives is the way. this means securing a roof over their heads and food on the table. we need to make sure that the social and economic aspects are on an equal footing in this semester, and taking the green deal into account, and we need to push for a european framework for minimum income, binding pay-transparency measures as well as ensuring quality employment with decent fair pay for our young people in europe through the youth guarantee. these has been some of the key issues for the greens free alliance group in the work on this file. thank you very much to you, klára dobrev, for doing a really great job on this report and making sure that the european parliament has a strong social and sustainable voice on this issue. it’s been a pleasure working with all of you and i’m looking forward to keeping this fight up.
i have to say that i am very pleased. the european parliament is often dragged along when discussing employment policy, and that is basically unwise. federal results and decisions lead to more uniformity and do not take into account the differences between the member states. more eu does not necessarily make for a better europe. we are seeing this now, when we are discussing, among other things, a minimum wage in the european union. such a decision would, according to leading experts, destroy the danish model in the field of employment. it should be the policy of the eu to protect and defend the freedom and diversity of each country, not to unify. employment policy is and should remain a national, not a european, concern.
i have to say that i am very pleased. the debate is essentially about securing growth and jobs in europe in the wake of the covid crisis. i do not think that the european union is acting positively in the present situation in which we find ourselves. in denmark we have companies that cannot benefit from government and parliamentary aid packages because the eu system does not act in time and approves. it is absolutely absurd, and while we are talking about what the eu can do, let me give you the answer: the eu can get going and allow our own countries to spend our own money to help our own citizens and businesses, that would be very helpful. it is my clear impression that the eu is more a problem than an active good in the crisis we are now in.
i have to say that i am very pleased. we need a significant change in the eu's policy to date. we are in the midst of three serious crises: a global pandemic that has claimed millions of lives, an economic crisis that means millions of people have lost their jobs, and a climate crisis that requires urgent action if climate change is not to get out of control completely. we need an ambitious and socially just green transition to get the economy moving and create green jobs. we need to put an effective end to tax havens, so we force multinational corporations to contribute to the common good. that requires that we end the black agricultural subsidies and invest in the green transition. it requires that we smash the eu fund in the face of farmers and companies that do not respect collective agreements and the right to organise. it requires that we blacklist all tax havens so that neither luxembourg nor the cayman islands are exempt. we need green and solidarity-based action.
mr president, ‘what people have the capacity to choose, they have the ability to change.’ sådan har usa’s tidligere udenrigsminister madeleine albright sagt. det er faktisk rigtig tydeligt at høre, at hun er europæer. sådan kan vi derfor også, i europa-parlamentet, vælge at gøre det, vi ikke kan eller ikke må acceptere, at andre skal acceptere. derfor stemmer epp naturligvis for, at eu skal steppe op for mere fokus på ligestilling i vores udenrigs- og sikkerhedspolitik. i vores egne institutioner og ikke mindst i måden, vi engagerer os i verden på. derfor har jeg som skyggeordfører lagt vægt på de værktøjer, der virker og skaber forandring. for mig, og for epp, er viljen til og kravet om ligestilling naturligt og ufravigeligt. det er hævet over køn og mange andre mere eller mindre moderne identitetskategorier og politisk korrekt sprogbrug. derfor er det egentlig også forkert, at en ligestillingsorienteret sikkerheds- og udenrigspolitik måske i fremtiden skal kaldes "feministisk". lige præcis den del af betænkningen, som vi skal stemme om, er jeg ikke enig i, men jeg vil dog gerne kvittere varmt for et anerkendende og konstruktivt samarbejde med ordfører urtasun. vi er blevet enige om det meste, og resten lever vi med i respekt for den demokratiske kultur, som vi netop gerne vil udtrykke tydeligere gennem eu's fremtidige forsvars- og sikkerhedspolitik. nemlig, at uanset køn og alt muligt andet, så gælder reglen: lige adgang, lige muligheder, lige rettigheder og lige behandling. og må jeg ikke have lov at slutte med, at madeleine albrigt også har sagt og er mest kendt for at sige: ‘there is a special place in hell for women who don’t help other women’. jeg skal ikke stå her og true af nogen som helst, heller ikke af mændene, men jeg håber, at alle stemmer for betænkningen.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it's going to be all right! that's probably the phrase we've worked the hardest on in 2020. because even though we know that this is life in general, the coronavirus crisis has cast a heavy shadow over our already many challenges with brexit, climate, migration pressures and trade wars. but we europeans can overcome most things - especially when we stand together on what none of us can do alone. everyone knows the danish position on budgets, which we believe should be concentrated on the core tasks and be set up with respect for the fact that the taxpayers' coffers are not cut out of money trees. but most people also know us danes for our pragmatic optimism. i would therefore like to stress that the budget gives greater leverage to the crossborder challenges, in particular climate change, the pressure on the external borders and our ability to match the united states and china in research, which cannot be tolerated with a thrifty neck. the eu is no stronger than the weakest link. and covid has painfully revealed the weaknesses in the eu's stability, adaptability and resilience. we now have a strong budget, we have the prospect of a more eu-friendly us president and on the vaccine front there are also optimistic signals. so tonight i dare say that everything will be fine! especially if president sassoli also realizes that he should not shut up our parliament. otherwise, no one will hear our optimism, see our struggle to reach each other, and feel the hope that we need to share with each other more than ever.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am here with the report on the 2019 european elections and i must say that i was somewhat surprised when i read it. the report simply states that the results should be seen as a warning to the eu sceptics. it is a very good example of this superficial and, i think, undemocratic system. instead of listening to those of us who are concerned about the growing federal system of the european union, they are isolating the sceptics. we are excluded from positions on committees, we are excluded from political influence and compromise, and, worst of all, we are babbling about democracy while excluding millions of voices of scepticism from being heard and allowing it to be the basis for self-reflection here in the glass palaces of brussels. instead, they just keep on going, and the only thing the majority has any imagination for is to demand more and more and more of europe. in everyday life, one can hardly count the number of empty phrases about democracy, diversity and tolerance that are fired in this house, but when it comes down to it, it is not followed when it comes to eu sceptics. the majority in this parliament behaves with double standards.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you can imagine it, just like you can imagine so many things that don't exist in reality. but you can imagine it. transnational lists of supranational politicians floating freely and independently in the air. you can see it. in line with the gut-wrenching ideals of identity politics that are "woke" around the clock, when we have enough to do to deliver concrete results for the climate and against the corona, etc. etc. as a european citizen i have for many years been opposed to transnational lists because europe is a continent, europe is not a country. it's a continent of nation states and unique people who share a lot of history and values and ways of thinking and being in the world. as europeans, we are people, as most of us are, bound to our birthplace and homeland, and who understand the world best in our mother tongue. the eu currently consists of 27 countries. 27 unique nations, which are very similar to each other and in healthy competition for the most part, making the eu as a whole the world's most dynamic, innovative and economic muscle for green transition and democracy in particular. transnational lists will dissolve the natural and cultural differences that we actually live by and that for 100 years have given europe our adaptability and our distinctiveness. transnational politicians, who in theory belong everywhere, belong nowhere. at best it is some over-the-top liberal federalist crap, and at worst it is some unlikely toxic, ultra-socialist ideological gas that will sneak the failed revolution in the back door in a new and woke way, floating freely across all national borders and in the process of cutting the natural umbilical cord that links all humans to where we come from. fortunately, many of us are against it, and i can therefore promise that i will vote against that very part of an otherwise excellent report.
i have to say, madam president, the president of the european council has proposed on twitter that the eu should set up imam schools and he will take this up at the council meeting in december. i can hardly express in words how foolish and naive i think the president-in-office's imam proposal is. mass immigration from islamic countries is challenging our values these days. do you really think that you can stop the terror of islamism by putting the imams in school and giving them koran lessons? i am still shocked by the naivety of the eu system when it comes to islam, terrorism and mass immigration. the european system has not yet realised that europe is in a struggle for survival which cannot be reversed by talking coffee, euro-islam or imam training. the battle for europe is won with closed borders, control of immigration and the repatriation of islamists and troublemakers. therefore, dear eu leaders, all you have to do is train the islamists to find the nearest airport and go home to their own countries, because they have nothing to do in europe.
mr. chairman, please. equality means that we women are not children, we are adults, mature people who can choose for ourselves, who can make decisions about our own lives. to have equality, we must have the right to decide what happens to our own bodies. the right to abortion is simply a prerequisite for equality. gender equality is a european value enshrined in the treaty. the right to abortion should not be a political fight, it is a right. but the polish government has turned it into an ideological battleground. poland has abandoned the values that bind us together in europe over the last five years. minorities have been under attack, the rule of law has been under attack, and women - yes, women's bodies - have been under attack. the right to abortion has been slowly but surely stolen from polish women. the polish government's ideology is taking away people's rights. the creation of lgbti-free zones, that's an ideology, the removal of a woman's rights over her own body, that's an ideology. but whatever the ideology of the polish government, remember that a ban on abortion does not make abortions disappear, it just pushes them underground. those who can travel abroad do so, those who cannot are left to crochet needles and kitchen tables. secret, unsafe, dangerous abortions. i know. the fight for freedom is not always a straight line, freedom and equality do not always win, so we must fight against any setbacks. i, as a woman in denmark, am not free until the women in poland are free. denmark is not part of a free europe until all of europe is free.
mr. chairman, please. as a civilian politician, there is nothing i would rather do than to ensure that every human being can live the life they want. i'm not going to interfere with whether the soft body has a few extra particles, if the body has a happy soul, by the way. but today, as we are giving the new pharmaceutical strategy a go, and many of my colleagues very wisely choose to talk about covid, critical security of supply and the crucial importance of making the eu the best place in the world to operate and develop the pharmaceutical industry, i choose to draw our attention to the frightening fact that we europeans are not only getting older and older, fewer and fewer, we are also getting fatter and fatter! over half of us over 18 are overweight or on the way to becoming so. that's a lot, and as a nurse, i have to say that's too much. these are not just ordinary chewing gums that smooth out wrinkles and signal a zest for life. this is obesity to the degree that it puts you at extremely high risk of developing insulin-dependent diabetes, very high risk of cancer, or any of the other 230 diagnoses that affect people who are overweight. 2.8 million europeans die each year from being overweight. and i'm sorry to say, it's also costing the treasury, so it's not possible. as a citizen, it would be socially and ethically irresponsible if we did not remember that when we are going to roll out the pharmaceutical strategy, we must also remember the issue of surplus, it must be high on the agenda. from digital solutions to our common policies and so on.
for the ppe group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. of all the water on earth, only 2.5 percent is drinkable, and only 0.007 percent is drinkable. the rest must be thoroughly cleaned, and even better than is done in many places today. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. many of my colleagues would say that. because i have to say, it's insanely important, but there's more to it than that. namely, the contribution of water to co2 reduction through energy efficiency improvements in the water sector. these are actually pretty crazy numbers. just think: the water sector in the eu accounts for two to three percent of our total electricity consumption. it may not say much, but it is. in fact, that is about the same amount of electricity that an electric car would need to drive in a straight line 38 million times around the globe or to make two million trips back to the moon. you can see it. the potential for energy efficiency improvements in the water sector is, to put it bluntly, 25 percent. that's the equivalent of saving 9.5 million trips around the world for that little electric car. or about 20 million tons of co2. energy efficiency in the water sector is not a drop in the bucket. i hope we remember this in the future in the green transition, including our water sector.
madam chairman! thank you for being here, commissioner. thank you very much for getting the transition bill through and ensuring stability for my colleagues all over europe. this is also about food safety. it is the best christmas present we can give our farmers, this very security. they've been fighting really hard during the pandemic to make sure we have good, healthy food. we have them to thank very much for that. i'm really looking forward to 2021. we need to work on a long-term strategy from the ground up. it's a very ambitious strategy. it sets the stage for the green transition of eu food production. i see the potential for the agricultural sector. we are the sector that has been most affected by climate change, but we are also the sector that is enabling the green transition. we need to work to ensure that our farmers can store more co2 in the soil. we need to help our consumers make the sustainable and climate-friendly choices when they're standing at the counter. it's about giving our consumers the right choice. merry christmas and a happy new year to all my colleagues in the european union.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, we need skilled craftsmen to renew our homes to combat climate change. we need skilled nurses to help our elderly and our sick. after a long shutdown here during the coronavirus pandemic, i think we've all learned to appreciate a well-trained hairdresser or barber. good skilled workers are essential to the functioning of our society and we need more young people to take up vocational training. too often, young people unfortunately run into a wall during their vocational training. the cuts in vocational training and the lack of traineeships are a huge problem. we must strengthen vocational training. this requires member states to invest in vocational training. this requires the creation of training places by employers and close cooperation with the social partners. ladies and gentlemen, let us get down to business.
i have to say that i am very pleased. 2020 has been a tough year, and it's been a long year. the global pandemic has been and remains a dark chapter in recent european history. but there's a light at the end of the tunnel. we are very close to the ema approving the various covid-19 vaccines for us europeans. throughout the crisis, the commission has led the way in close cooperation with member states in negotiating vaccines on the spot. it's a sign of health, of our ability to take care of each other. cooperation when it counts. vaccines are an important part of our security policy, along with defense budgets, foreign policy and protection against cyberattacks. it is therefore worrying that certain member states are in contact with third countries with whom we do not normally cooperate, especially for reasons of security policy, to purchase vaccines. countries like china and russia are playing a joke behind the scenes, and they are serious candidates to supply vaccines to countries in the eu, which are not too careful to signal a strange mixture of disloyalty, mistrust and double standards towards the health and security interests of the community. i would therefore like to ask whether, in the commission's view, this is a good priority. how does the commission view the potential safety risk and the risk that this may have a negative impact on the willingness and courage of europeans and citizens to be vaccinated?
mr president, i would like to thank you. safety and security are the alpha and omega of a society. you can't build a well-functioning society if people don't feel safe. we need action. talk is not enough. in this respect, the eu system has been very effective in recent years. when it comes to our security and safety, the eu has been asleep at the wheel for years. for me, safety and security starts at our borders. that is because criminal terrorists and troublemakers are much more likely to cross borders today than they were in the past. it goes without saying that we must of course push our limits. the eu has fought the efforts at our national borders and has tried to take care of the external borders. it's a bad combination of things. it's not working. the union must pull itself together, secure the external borders, allow us to have national border controls and allow us, of course, to send troublemakers, thugs and terrorists back where they came from.
i have to say that i am very pleased. my period started today. i am among the approximately 26 percent of the world's population who menstruate two to seven days a month. and if you don't know what you're going to use that information for, don't worry, the pharmaceutical industry, the science, the app developers, for the most part, don't either. menstruation, or women in general, are too difficult to think about in the development of drugs or apps. despite the fact that it could be critical to whether the medicine works, despite the fact that we are 26 percent of the world's population. women are many things besides being women. it doesn't make us any less of a woman. black women are black and women. women with disabilities have a disability, and they are women. lesbian women are lesbians and women. roman women are roma and women. muslim women are muslim women. transwomen are trans and women. trans women are women. it gives us different experiences. it means that society sees us and treats us differently. but we're still all women. women have been invisible and forgotten for far too long. the history books forget about us. the pharmaceutical industry is forgetting us. the bag manufacturers are forgetting us. well, yes, but that our governments in the eu forget us, despite the fact that almost all eu governments have a minister for gender equality no? black women, roma women, muslim women, trans women -- we are all women. we demand that our governments remember women. we demand that they turn good intentions into action. so fuck the patriarchy!
the commission. mr president, there is a brutal repression of the uyghur minority in china. forced labor, forced sterilization, and gigantic prison camps are unfortunately the daily routine of hundreds of thousands of uyghurs and other muslim minorities in china. we need targeted sanctions against those responsible for the repression of the uyghurs in the chinese regime. unfortunately, the eu has so far failed to tackle the massive forced labour being inflicted on the uyghurs. the eu has chosen to stand by while multinational corporations profit handsomely from the repression. it has to stop. we need transparent value chains so that companies are held accountable when they profit from oppression. the multinational companies must realise that we will not accept the profiteering of the oppression of the uyghurs and the muslim minorities in china. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it requires that we act now. this requires the eu to step up its efforts. it requires targeted sanctions against those responsible in the chinese regime, and it requires that we target the multinational corporations that profit from repression.
the commission. madam president, today we are sending a clear message from the european parliament: stop the oppression in iran! the clergy of iran brutally oppress the iranian people and have sent thousands of political opponents to prison or to death by execution. this is completely unacceptable. but we also send our solidarity to the brave people of iran who defy oppression in their struggle for democracy and justice. the brave iranian women need our support as they defy the darkened mullahs in the fight for the right to control their own bodies. that is why we say: release nasrin sotoudeh, release the political prisoners, punish those responsible for the human rights violations against the iranian people.
