madam president, i am deeply sorry for what has happened in australia, the devastating situation, which gives us yet another lesson about climate change. you have to think that australia has emitted more co2 from these fires than the uk has in a whole year. we must learn from this. we are about to launch the european green deal, which also includes a forestry strategy. let us not import the australian forest into our european territory. in portugal, in greece, in galicia there are monoculture eucalyptus plantations that are also imitating that forest that is burning in australia. let's not make climate change easy. when conditions are above 90 degrees fahrenheit, below 30 percent humidity, and with winds of more than 20 miles per hour, forest fires are more likely to occur. so we must learn from what happened in australia so that it does not happen in europe. and let's put in place realistic prevention strategies for this coming climate change.
in writing. the scale and virulence of the australian fires, which in many cases have led to loss of control, made it appropriate for a parliamentary debate to address the devastating effects of climate change and extreme phenomenology and other environmental and international issues. we socialists are aware that climate change is real and that we must continue to fight against it. the remoteness of the oceanic continent from europe did not seem to justify this debate to some political groups. however, these fires are having an impact on europe and the rest of the world. so many toxic gases are being generated that there is even a risk of other weather phenomena being triggered. the debate is another call to meet international climate commitments. it is not acceptable that there are countries that do not comply with the paris agreement or that there are political leaders who deny climate change or ignore its consequences. we are facing a climate and ecological crisis. it is heartbreaking to see thousands of acres destroyed by the flames and how certain types of mammals that exist only in australia are threatened with extinction.
madam president, the subject we are debating today is extremely serious, because it is the only known case so far of border controls being reintroduced because of an escalation of violent and organised crime. crossborder crime has only one answer: crossborder cooperation. and when it comes to organized crime and terrorism, borders do not protect sovereignty: borders protect criminals. europe must be a place of freedom for its citizens and not a place of mobility for criminals. let's not kid ourselves. we know the problems and what needs to be done. we need to talk about more effective confiscation of assets, control of cyberspace, the fight against money laundering, access to evidence in judicial proceedings, harmonisation of legislation, cooperation on instruments for arrest and surrender, strengthening of european agencies. we must, in short, put our deeds where our words put them.
madam president, commissioner, the european union is often accused of not being able to provide solutions to citizens immediately, of being late. and it is true. this directive, adopted in 2014, is a clear example that willpower is sometimes not the best way to achieve the goal we want to achieve. it is not normal that, in the year 2020 and being digital sovereignty one of the great challenges that this next and already existing european commission has, it is one of the issues that we have to deal with in this new legislature. because it is true that in our homes - and many of my colleagues said this - we have a large number of chargers that we no longer use. but also for an important issue, and young people have set a good example for us with climate action. we can't afford to keep buying a charger for every electronic device, and we're not just talking about mobile phones. we talk about watches, we talk about cameras. we're talking about many types of electronic devices that need to be renewed. we need a universal single charger and we also need the cables to stop being effective. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, in the european union women work for free for two months a year compared to men, not to mention the many who work unpaid and in conditions of slavery. we know very well why. because it is women who continue to provide unpaid care at home and poorly paid care outside. because social services have been cut. because in the chain of care there are neither men nor institutions. we know what measures we should take, but we do not take them. we did not want to force large companies to undergo pay audits and pay penalties when they do not. we did not want to bet on parental leave which would prevent these companies from discriminating against women of childbearing age and force men to take care of their own children. early childhood education is still privatized in many states and is very expensive, which excludes women from the market. we have not secured a system of care for dependents that is public, universal and free, so that informal care does not fall on them. we're killing women on a double and triple day basis, while a good portion of the gentlemen grow like mushrooms in their cubicles, washed, combed, ironed and reproduced. in europe many women work part-time to remain poor, to have less health coverage and to age on minimum pensions. we still haven't done enough.
madam president, we are discussing today a subject which should be closed: the gender pay gap. because women are paid 16% less than men, and that is why we are asking the commission to be more ambitious in terms of equality. we need the equal pay directive to be reviewed as soon as possible and we need measures at european level to improve work-life balance. but one of the things that i'm particularly concerned about as an engineer is the impact of digitization on the wage gap. there will be a great demand for well-paid jobs in science and technology, and the percentage of women studying these fields is much lower than that of men, at 17%, which will mean that this wage gap will be widened even further. we must work to ensure that girls and women choose these types of studies and occupations. so we ask him for ambition. there are many measures that are needed; consider this a priority and present us with your gender equality strategy as soon as possible
mr president, the wage gap is not an old or modern legend, as was said in this house a moment ago. it's a very serious problem. not only a very serious social justice problem, but also an economic problem because, above all, women are practically 60% of university graduates. it is true that measures have been taken and the gap has been narrowing, albeit very slowly, especially in the last decade. and i also think, commissioner dalli, that this directive, this initiative on transparency is going to be very useful, but i think it is not enough, especially in the middle of a digital revolution. because right now the most demanded and best paid jobs are precisely in the stem field, in the technological ones and, according to data from the european institute for gender equality, since 2009 the presence of women in this field is decreasing and today it is 17%. we must therefore take very concrete measures in this direction and tackle the problem in a very broad way. so my question goes along these lines. what measures are being taken to reduce this gap?
mr president, homelessness is not just a lack of access to decent housing, it also involves serious problems of health, access to the labour market and social benefits and, above all, even personal security. housing first is a model that is working successfully in some member states, and is a strategy that combines accompaniment with access to social and health services. we therefore need a strong commitment from the commission to implement this model in all member states, with sufficient budgetary allocation and the inclusion of homelessness as an ambitious target in the social indicators table of the sustainable half-year. i am aware of your commitment to this issue, commissioner, and that is why i hope that the commission will soon present a draft recommendation setting out an action plan to eradicate homelessness. in conclusion, i would like to point out that this problem affects the citizens who move within the european union significantly. at this point, a new commission communication would be appropriate to ensure that the rights of these workers are respected and they do not end up on the streets.
mr president, i would now like to say, at 11 p.m., what president sassoli, in breach of my rights as a member, has prevented me from saying this afternoon, in accordance with rule 195 of the rules of procedure of this house. article 3 of the rules of procedure of this house establishes a procedure for becoming a member of parliament, and the competent electoral authority of each state must send the corresponding credentials so that one can be subsequently admitted. however, the attitude of president sassoli, in accepting that mr puigdemont and mr comín, who have not appeared before the competent spanish electoral authority, have not respected the constitution and are fugitives from spanish justice, can be in this parliament, constitutes an attack on the european electoral act, an attack on the rules of procedure of this house, and seriously jeopardises the legality and validity of all the agreements which are adopted in this house from now on. i don't know where mr. sassoli wants to go. he has already had to make concessions in relation to mr junqueras, since the supreme court of the kingdom of spain has shown him that we are right, and we also have the law on our side. he'll end up doing it with messrs. comín and puigdemont. i just want to say that mr sassoli is provoking an unprecedented institutional conflict, he is putting this parliament outside the law, and i remind him that without law there is no democracy.
mr. president, depopulation is one of the challenges we have to address in this new legislature. the ageing of the population, the exodus of young people and low birth rates from rural areas are common features of this phenomenon, but not the only ones. the problem is that the imbalance between depopulated areas and urban areas is growing. i would therefore like to stress here the responsibility of the european institutions to prevent these inequalities and to ensure that all citizens have access to basic services and opportunities, regardless of where they live. so far, the cap funds, the erdf funds and the european social fund have financed certain specific activities aimed at curbing depopulation, but now we must give priority to strategies, measures which are fully studied and financed and which are in line with the new needs and realities of 21st century society. for example, promoting new technologies and digitisation in rural areas through high-capacity networks, or also focusing on sustainable growth and development models and on stimulating and incentivising population. in short, what i want to ask for is speed, commitment and that we, once and for all, get down to work to implement all these measures in the light of the commitments we have all made to the demographic phenomenon and the demographic challenge.
madam president, prime minister it’s a pleasure to see you again in your new role. i would just like to bring up two issues. first, the european commission has presented a proposal for public tax transparency for large multinational companies. small and medium-sized companies and ordinary citizens pay taxes. some large multinationals do not pay the taxes due. you have the chance, prime minister, to put that issue back on the agenda of the european council. so far there’s no meeting foreseen, therefore i call on you to put the issue back on the agenda and finish what the finnish presidency started in order to find a majority in council. and second, like the european parliament, the finnish have also started to publish all the minutes of the lobby meetings of their permanent representation. the germans have now said they will do the same, but unfortunately the croatian representation does not do so yet. please follow the finnish in this regard – they set a good example.
madam president, president plenković, i would like to congratulate you. i would like to congratulate croatia on its presidency. i am especially moved because, when, a quarter of a century ago, i was as a journalist in the trenches and destroyed houses of osijek or karlovac, in slavonia or krajina, this was really a dream that seemed unattainable. it is precisely because of the immense beauty of the reunification of europeans, from tallinn to cadiz, from zagreb to amsterdam, that we cannot allow it to fail. the croatian presidency can help by warning all those who are trying to hijack europe for a superstate, of a concrete social democratic ideology, which ignores and ultimately destroys nations and democracy. they should call for common sense against irrational ideological projects or that conference on the future of europe, so suspicious, that it seems to want to deceive the european states with a federalism by the back door, which not all states and, of course, not all europeans want.
mr president, i want to speak in english because i want to be heard in english. british people must know that despite brexit, despite all the things that happened during these last four years, they will always be welcome in the european union because europe is not about where you come from; it’s about where you want to go. countries can be separated; families cannot. today, there is more than one million britons living in other eu countries – lots of them in my own country, in spain. i want to address them directly today. many of you have built your lives here, in europe. many of you have married here. some of you have children that were born here. we are neighbours. most of all we are friends. we are relatives. there is something that we cannot and will not forget. that is why i want to tell you: no matter what happens after 31 january, you will always belong to europe, and as long as it’s your wish to stay with us, the european union will always be your home. so from the bottom of my heart, i won’t say goodbye, i won’t say see you soon, i’ll only say: stay with us, the european union is your home. (applause)
madam president, in the committee on petitions, we’ve heard the voices of citizens from across europe desperate about what will happen to their rights, their lives, their jobs, their families. most of these citizens – whether eu27 nationals in the uk or uk citizens in the rest of the eu for longer than 15 years – had no voice or vote in the decision that most acutely affects their lives. they are the children of this great continental peace project, taking up the dreams of the original founders of these institutions and building lives based on the common rights that we share. we have, above all, a moral duty towards those who had no vote and are being further disenfranchised. we have consistently stated that guaranteeing citizens’ rights is a red line for any brexit deal. we must stick to that. we know the outstanding problems and we have to be brave and see action before we vote on that deal in a few weeks.
mr allard, mr van orden is going to try again to ask a question. will you accept a question from mr van orden? non? merci beaucoup. if you refuse a third time i give up, but let’s see what happens. i am in a jolly mood, so let’s listen to mr van orden’s point of information. (applause)i worry when you applaud me!
madam president, thank you for your indulgence. i just want to say to the last two colleagues that have spoken: there are 2.6 million people who have applied for settled status. only five – only five – have been refused, on grounds of criminality.
madam president, with regard to brexit, the truth is that a little more tolerance on the part of certain people might have kept the british people inside the european union. maybe this kind of bullying explains a lot of things. with brexit, the will of the british people is fulfilled on 31 january. this british decision should have led the european union to a self-critical reflection, and it has been the opposite. instead of debating the causes, he furiously attacked those who leave. we are sorry about brexit. the british have two great virtues: courage and love of freedom. we need them here, from within, those of us who are confronting hegemonies, ideological hegemonic tendencies and federalist dreams against nations. there are 250,000 britons in spain and 180,000 spaniards in the united kingdom. the rights of both must be guaranteed equally. so, therefore, we have many reasons to be exquisite with reciprocity. relations with london seem to be easier from the european capitals than from brussels, because from brussels there seems to be a spirit of revenge that makes everything difficult.
madam president, we know that the united kingdom will leave the european union on 31 january. of course we respect the democratic decision of the british people, but in spain we believe that there are still unknowns that we must address. as you know, the gibraltar case has a singularity. we are talking about the situation of the more than 13 000 crossborder workers who cross the fence every day. their neoliberal policies have turned the gibraltar field into one of the most impoverished areas in europe. this is a structural problem, which leads to unemployment of 27%, and for the youngest, 70%. and while article 24 of the withdrawal agreement is a step forward in this respect, it does not resolve or put in place any measures to ensure that displaced workers do not lose rights such as unemployment benefits or even pensions. with this agreement they have already guaranteed the benefits of the economic elites. now we demand your firm commitment so that our workers are not left behind.
madam president, i, like some of my colleagues previously, want to draw the attention of mr barnier to the settled status issue and the physical proof. i’ve interacted several times with spanish citizens in the uk. i’ve gone to london, to oxford, to several places to see them. they tell me that the system is unnecessarily cruel and that it leads to a lot of uncertainty. the basic issue is that they get a pdf by email, which they can print as a pdf, which anybody could fake, which says that they have been granted settled status. that is all. they don’t get any card they can use when they travel. they don’t get any card that they can use when they go to work. they don’t know if the next time they come to the uk, somebody might not find their status. there is a very easy solution to that, which is a card with your photo which they could get, like you get in the us when you’re a permanent resident. our citizens are being subjected to an unnecessarily cruel system and i think that it should be a priority in negotiating with the uk authorities that, as our resolution says in point 10, this physical proof should exist and be given via a certain and simple process.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the right track with this investment plan for sustainability, with this fund for just transition. in the european parliament we have always said that new priorities must have additional resources and it is very positive that the just transition fund has an additional eur 7.5 billion. my question is: why 7.5 billion euros? will that be enough? it is something that parliament will have to study and verify. in addition, complementarity is also positive with cohesion policy, but it is necessary that cohesion policy is not distorted: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and then there 's this appeal: the member states must define their investment plans, they must know what they want for their regions. otherwise, once the amounts for each region have been fixed, they will complain, they will say that it is brussels' fault and they will say that the money is not enough after all, when they have not even said what they wanted to say. and it is urgent that each member state, each region, also do its homework in this area.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a trillion dollars of investment for the sustainable development of europe over the next ten years: this is the important objective that the commission is presenting today for a europe that is climate neutral by 2050 and increasingly socially inclusive. it is certainly a lot of resources, but if we are to successfully tackle the profound changes that these challenges require, we must commit to making more resources available in the coming years. i would like to return to the commission's proposals: i would like to highlight two that contain significant new developments. first, finally a fund with resources dedicated to making the transition socially equitable, because we have to attack climate change but also avoid leaving anyone behind, especially in sectors that will face major industrial conversions, because sustainability has to be for everyone to be achieved. secondly, it is important to note that the investment plan explicitly refers to the opening of a discussion on the exclusion of sustainable investment from the deficit calculation in the stability pact in the member states. i am not unaware of the timidity with which the reference is inserted in the text, but i would like to reiterate, as some colleagues have already done, that the subject must be tackled with determination in order to enable the member states to make their essential contribution to this challenge. this is the way europe must go. to maintain a high level of ambition on key issues such as environmental sustainability, while at the same time reaching out to those at risk of being left behind in society. focusing on environmental sustainability and social inclusion are the keys to getting european citizens excited again.
madam president, commissioners, during the crisis i had a friend who was an economist and i said to him: 'there are people behind the macroeconomic measures that are taken.' and he said, "well, get out of the way". sustainability is a principle, it's a goal. but sustainability, like crises, is always paid for by the weakest; it cannot be that sustainability and the path to it, transition and change, are paid for again by the weakest and most vulnerable, because we are here to make europe more sustainable, but also more just. and there are some who, in front of sustainability, put some concepts and some ideas that forget that there are people behind it. so we need funds, yes, but we also need goals, and values. and that value is to develop social policy, the european social pillar. because this development is not just about funding: it is about concrete objectives to ensure that our citizens never again see crises, changes or transitions as a means of preying on the weakest, the most vulnerable.
madam president, i have to ask you. thank you, mr. vice president, for introducing the sustainable investment plan and the just transition fund to us today. i believe that these are two essential instruments for the european green deal. two comments on that. with regard to the just transition fund - my colleagues have said this - i think we must be sure that it will indeed bring about a transition. and so that criterion of conditionality, of getting off coal and really committing to climate neutrality, must be an essential component. so first of all, i would like to ask that that be incorporated into the just transition fund, which is a core element. we can't leave anyone behind on that. and so i think it's right to make this a real priority. and then, on the investment plan, from what we know, i feel that we are lacking a little bit of ambition when it comes to getting resources for that investment. i think it is a kind of juncker plan 3.0 with national contributions. and i think that's where we need to go a little bit further. we need new sources of resources to be able to undertake a plan that is extremely ambitious. i doubt that with what we have got, what we have on the table, we can reach that billion euros. so my second message would be: please let's put more ambition into getting the resources so that this plan is a true transformative tool.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think it's a great vision that we become climate neutral in europe. the old commission already showed in 2018 how we can do this: with additional jobs and additional economic growth. but we need a good framework for this, and some regions need to adapt more than others. so it's good that we're taking these people through the just transition fund. i stress that we must do this in all regions of europe. we cannot apply the old criteria to this new objective. even in richer regions, people are facing challenges that we would not have had without the coal phase-out. and that's why we have to do something about it. we should not have the illusion that europe can do this alone. we also need national support, and the commission must approve this under state aid law. we must also discuss own resources from the eec. that is why my group is in favour of extending the eec too. i regret that we still have a lot of resistance here, but i hope that we can reach an agreement. in conclusion, i would like to pay tribute to a colleague who is sitting behind me and who is speaking after me, which is wrong, because he is the creator of the just transition fund. without it we would not have this proposal today and we would not have so much support for it. thank you, jerzy buzek, for your commitment, and we're fighting to make this work.
madam president, mr vice-president timmermans, i want to welcome your announcement of the allocation of €7.5 billion for the just transition funds and at the same time i want to welcome what you announced this morning, namely that the european investment bank will be involved in supporting the projects that are necessary for decarbonisation at the level of the european union. in the case of romania, the presence of the european investment bank is vital because the investment need that i saw in a study presented in december is 80 billion euros for the next ten years, that is 4 percent of gdp, which should be spent every year starting this year; it is an enormous amount and without the support of the european investment bank, it will be very difficult for us, and i hope that this will happen because in the past the european investment bank has supported more the countries that are the richest in the european union and little or none of those that needed the most help. at the same time, mr vice-president, i want to ask you to insist that the projects that are necessary for the regions affected by decarbonisation start immediately, as well as the social projects for these regions, which are vital for many people: in the case of romania alone, there are 170 000 people who are affected.
madam president, i come from a country, france, where the citizens have put on a yellow vest to tell us that the ecological transition must be fair and that is why it is essential that today, the first political act proposed by the european commission, after presenting its european green deal, be precisely the just transition fund, so that no european citizen or territory is left behind, so that risks are turned into opportunities. i would like to say to the colleagues on the far right who are shouting one after another, saying 'this is unbearable, it will cost us far too much': ask the people of venice whether they think it is very expensive to fight climate change, whether we are doing too much or not enough. ask australians today if they think we are doing too much globally to tackle climate change or if doing nothing or not doing enough is costing them a lot of money and is destroying their continent. that's the reality. stop looking in the rearview mirror, let's look to the future, let's do it together, don't give in to the european commission, put the money on the table, you have the support of parliament and the european citizens. (the speaker agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question asked by raising the blue card. - madam president! - i have to go. mr. ambassador, you are an envoy from france. i'm surprised at your statement. for months, the yellow vests have been taking to the streets of france to protest climate policy. please note that only 2% of the country's energy mix is coal-based. polish energy mix is close to 80%, so what are the costs of this climate policy, so restrictive for the polish people? is just climate change going to be about the people being ignored by the government?
the answer is 'blue card'. precisely, it is very important that there is this just transition fund and we support it. i particularly support it because in countries like poland the starting point is different, and i welcomed the fact that poland did not block the goal of carbon neutrality in europe in december. your government could have done it, it didn't, and so it's important today that we have european solidarity to support the just transition, in poland and elsewhere in europe, but especially at home. so do not misunderstand me: i support this transition plan precisely because it means that no one is left behind in europe and particularly in the countries which need it most, poland in particular.
madam president, commissioners, the european union has rightly taken an ambitious position on climate change and the environment. however, to achieve this, we must ensure two essential aspects from the outset. first, that european policies are aligned with these priorities. secondly, the investments must be commensurate with the ambition of the proposed targets and not be made at the expense of the existing budgetary cake. particular attention should be paid to the completion of cross-border energy networks and the development of clean technologies. the transitional fund will have to establish a simple and flexible system of state aid. it should be adapted to the specific issues of each region and take particular account of those areas where the transition will be most difficult. no sector of the economy should be left behind, least of all those directly affecting people. people must always be at the centre of our strategies.
madam president, first of all i would like to welcome the vice-presidents of the commission and thank mr timmermans for the reference to my region, asturias, a region in northern spain which has been suffering for decades; firstly, in the 1980s we faced the necessary adjustment after the oil crisis of the 1970s, and now we face a new challenge to respond to the fight against climate change. in my region, as in the whole of europe, we are aware of the need to combat climate change, but we are also aware, as socialists, that this process must be a structured, balanced process and that it must guarantee equality for all citizens in europe. and that is why the commission's proposal today to start negotiations is very welcome. i would like to thank you for this proposal to - as i say - start the discussions, in which there are still, obviously, many unresolved issues that we have to define in the legislative process. and i would ask the commission to do the same with the same speed to have a border adjustment for carbon the sooner the better.
madam president! today we have learned the vague and unfortunately very general plans of the european commission for the just transition fund. the amount proposed is absolutely not sufficient. so, is the just transformation fund going to be just in name only? commissioner frans timmermans, at a hearing in the environment committee, when asked about the future of poland's mining regions, said that as the grandson of two miners, he knew it would be painful. how does that relate to a just transformation? it cannot, commissioner, be at the expense of the workers of the mining regions. it cannot be at the expense of coal-based economies like my home country of poland. a moment ago, one of the members praised the european emissions trading system, and is it based on a just transition, given the diverse energy mix? commissioner, does the commission have a calculation of the costs of climate change? how much will it cost poland, whose energy mix is 80% coal-based? what are the means? we need time and money, like poland, to achieve climate neutrality. ursula von der leyen said that climate policy can leave no one behind. keep your word.
madam president, when we talk about the european green deal we must start from an unquestionable basic conception. political agreements reached in favour of environmental protection cannot cause irreparable damage to our economy and our citizens. while political agreements have been reached to achieve full decarbonisation in europe, it is now up to us to take the measures that will allow member states to remain competitive and continue to create opportunities for citizens and businesses. it is therefore logical that the european regions affected by decarbonisation and the inevitable relocation of companies and industries demand compensatory measures. spain and its mining regions are among them. i would like to emphasize the case of spain, because it would be illogical for a member state which has fully complied with the european union's rules in this field to be affected now because it has done its duty. the debate must focus on the how and the why. the objective of the just transition fund is to help regions affected by the forced closure of an economic activity to remain competitive. to help them recycle and transform and to offer their citizens other tools with which to build their future. it must never be a help to a lost cause that clears consciences. let us not seek to buy social peace. in conclusion, these funds must be accompanied by a thorough evaluation of their use, productivity and results. concrete plans and programmes promoting training, employment, innovation and the search for a competitive alternative energy source.
mr president, thank you, commissioner, for your presentation today. the just transition fund is key to enabling european regions to finance decarbonisation. we are talking about 100 billion euros over 10 years and we are very concerned about how these funds are going to be distributed. you, mr timmermans, in your presentation, mentioned the miners of asturias, my region. but asturias, castile and león, aragon, are regions of spain that have already closed all their mines, that have done their homework and are now closing the last coal-fired power stations. and these regions are suffering very much in terms of employment and this is affecting the depopulation problem very much. that is why we are asking you today to take these regions into account, the regions which have already done their homework, in this just transition fund. because, as you said, it is about not leaving anyone behind and it is essential that these regions do not lose any more jobs and do not lose any more population.
in writing. the ecological transition is a necessity that brings with it opportunities but also challenges: regions like mine, with energy-intensive businesses, need european support to change their production model and do so in a fair way, leaving no one behind. the citizens need assurances that the cost of the transition will not be borne by the usual people. in galicia and spain we know what we are talking about because we have closed the coal mines at great cost: unemployment, loss of productive tissue, depopulation. european solidarity is needed for those who must close their mines now, of course. but also for those of us who face grave consequences for having done so long before. our regions also need investment to revive their industry. and fair competition both in the internal market and with third countries. it is not possible for the poorer regions to end up paying the bill for the coal transition to rich countries which have not done their homework. we believe in solidarity with those who need it most. but we cannot allow this process to open new gaps. we need a just transition fund. and justice in its design.
in writing. the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the financial arm for implementing the green deal. it is also a response to citizens who have called for a roadmap to make the eu the first climate-neutral bloc. the just transition fund should also address the wider impact on regions and industries that are highly dependent on carbon and fossil fuels of the paradigm shift that climate neutrality will require. the path to climate neutrality is a complicated one and the just transition fund is here to cushion the difficulties of this change. the socialists have advocated that the transition be fair and not create more inequalities, and we will ensure that this is the case during the implementation of all the proposals and measures contained in the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the just transition fund. we are aware of the need to mobilise resources to reduce emissions and renew the necessary infrastructure. but above all, we socialists have a strong commitment to social justice and solidarity with those who have to face the most difficulties, so we will be following up the implementation of the plan and the fund in detail.
in writing. the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the financial arm for implementing the green deal. it is also a response to citizens who have called for a roadmap to make the eu the first climate-neutral bloc. the just transition fund should also address the wider impact on regions and industries that are highly dependent on carbon and fossil fuels of the paradigm shift that climate neutrality will require. the path to climate neutrality is a complicated one and the just transition fund is here to cushion the difficulties of this change. the socialists have advocated that the transition be fair and not create more inequalities, and we will ensure that this is the case during the implementation of all the proposals and measures contained in the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the just transition fund. we are aware of the need to mobilise resources to reduce emissions and renew the necessary infrastructure. but above all, we socialists have a strong commitment to social justice and solidarity with those who have to face the most difficulties, so we will be following up the implementation of the plan and the fund in detail.
in writing. the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the financial arm for implementing the green deal. it is also a response to citizens who have called for a roadmap to make the eu the first climate-neutral bloc. the just transition fund should also address the wider impact on regions and industries that are highly dependent on carbon and fossil fuels of the paradigm shift that climate neutrality will require. the path to climate neutrality is a complicated one and the just transition fund is here to cushion the difficulties of this change. the socialists have advocated that the transition be fair and not create more inequalities, and we will ensure that this is the case during the implementation of all the proposals and measures contained in the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the just transition fund. we are aware of the need to mobilise resources to reduce emissions and renew the necessary infrastructure. but above all, we socialists have a strong commitment to social justice and solidarity with those who have to face the most difficulties, so we will be following up the implementation of the plan and the fund in detail.
mr president, thank you, mr high representative, for your words, which i and my group fully share. it is clear that we need to reduce tension in the region, that the assassination of general soleimani could have consequences much worse than we have seen. we must try to maintain - as the european union is trying to do - the nuclear agreement, which is fundamental to our security. perhaps, in that perspective, we should try to make the instex mechanism operational so that we can trade with iran beyond the extraterritorial sanctions of the united states. the activation of the dispute settlement mechanism is logical in the context of the breaches and the announcements of future breaches, but in any case, we cannot forget that iran is an authoritarian regime, which has killed protesters and which finances and sponsors militias in countries such as iraq, lebanon, syria and yemen. they also owe it to iran to stop this behavior.
madam speaker, we see iranians protesting against a theocratic dictatorship that murders its own people, just as we have seen previous generations of iranians protesting against the dictatorship of the former shah. we must hear this call for freedom. and we also see the ayatollah regime that seeks regional hegemony, to upset the balance of power in the entire region, to create a corridor from tehran to the mediterranean by taking over iraq, syria and lebanon. general suleimani was the military face of this strategy. and these iranian ambitions threaten the very security of europe. it is time to put a stop to this, it is time to abandon the policy of appeasement, it is time to abandon the policy of mrs mogherini, it is time to harden iran and to bring it within the proper limits.
madam president, the political assassination of general soleimani by the united states has triggered a spiral of violence, not only in iran and iraq but in the whole region, and has given rise to what we might call a new kind of cold war, including those proxy wars that some world powers are willing to play in the area as well. we want to urge the commission and this parliament to support and facilitate with resources the dialogue and economic recovery of the area through an assistance programme and we want to insist that we must flee from calls for embargoes, which historically have only served to punish the most vulnerable social sectors, and we also think that we must promote economic activity with iraq and the countries of the area. we must urge the united states and the european countries which also have troops in iraq to withdraw, as the iraqi parliament has demanded, and to demand respect for international law, flagrantly violated by the assassination of general soleimani. this process of economic and democratic take-off of the area he mentioned must be carried out without external interference and with respect for human rights, and this, we think, requires an end to all forms of interventionism, both american and european. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question of the 'blue card'. madam president, mr barrena, sitting here, is a man who was convicted by the national court in 2016 for belonging to the terrorist group eta, a group that killed more than 800 people in spain, and which has 300 crimes still unsolved. i ask mr barrena whether he condemns eta's terrorism, whether he condemns eta's violence, a violence in which he was also a protagonist. i ask you before this parliament whether you condemn it or not. and i would also like to say that mr barrena is a member of the bildu party, which made it possible for mr sánchez to be installed in spain.
the answer is 'blue card'. mrs benjumea, i hear you speak and it seems that nothing has changed in the basque country in the last ten years. eta no longer exists, there is no political violence at least on the basque side and society is determined to close that cycle with the recognition of all victims and the end of political imprisonment. let me tell you that your position is far from understanding and reconciliation. you and your party are still in positions of revenge, and i invite you to make a positive contribution to the process of peace and political normalisation so that this becomes a consolidated reality, as the basque society as a whole wishes.
madam president, since mr comín has not had the gall to accept the blue card which has been proposed to him, may i remind him that this document we are examining concerns human rights issues in the world. that is not to say that there are no human rights issues to be discussed in europe. for example, what happened in the catalan parliament on december 6 and 7, 2017, when the rights of minorities or the opposition were trampled. the same rule of law that has mr. comin sitting here today. the same rule of law that mr comín has sitting here and that all of us in this chamber respect when he is right and when he is wrong. i am sorry that i can only refer to the great work of mrs wiseler-lima and say to my colleagues: colleagues, you are not a global player by giving the sakharov prize. you don't become a global actor just by giving away sakharov prizes. either we have the political capacity to protect the people we put on the target, and we have the capacity to influence the political life of those regimes, or we are simply making a huge toast to the sun. our security and defence capability must therefore be strengthened so that our policy of promoting values is accompanied by an effective policy of defending those defenders of human values in the regimes in which they are attacked.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, the recent escalation of tensions that we have experienced in iran following the extrajudicial killing of soleimani has put the world at maximum tension. do you really think that you can give security to european citizens by following the incendiary policy of donald trump? let us not confuse security with military operations again. security is having institutions that provide the right to a dignified life with guarantees, with access to employment, to basic services. but security is also not suffering or participating in military interference in another country, or in coups orchestrated from the white house, or in drone bombings. security is being an actor in ensuring that international law is respected. we need to strengthen multilateralism, but that requires a look at ourselves, unconcerned with external interests. we are at a crucial moment not only for the countries in conflict but for the very fate of the european union and for millions of people in the world. let us give priority to dialogue, diplomacy, democratic control of military operations. let's bet on safety. let us commit ourselves to the just development of other countries, to the care of the planet, to feminism and democracy. then we'll be betting on safety.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in libya, despite the many declarations of intent, we see that the eu has decided not to take a decision, leaving the field open to russia, the united states in the anti-jihadist vein and turkey. the commitment to an arms embargo has long been openly circumvented by turkey, the uae and egypt. europe's main responsibility is that it allowed the government in tripoli to be supported in practice only by erdoğan, first with weapons, drones and military advisers and now also with regular troops and jihadist groups from syria. the situation is now likely to further destabilise the area, damaging the interests of local companies, especially italian ones, and undermining human rights. a recent associated press investigation into the recipients of european funds, followed by a question from me, then revealed how officials from un agencies are aware that a considerable part of the resources sent to stabilize the area and improve conditions in detention centers are actually going to libyan militias and criminal organizations. this scandal, coupled with the steady increase in influence in the region by russia and turkey, attests to the failure of european policies in libya.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i agree with some of the comments you have made. others are wishful thinking. you have to... you have to what? you have to ask erdoğan to cancel his agreement with al—serraj about the ... – i can ask. and what? the problem is that we haven’t been united on libya. let’s tell the truth. we europeans have had different positions with respect to libya and now maybe we are paying the price for the fact that we haven’t been able to represent a political approach shared by all member states. it’s true that some regret that turkey has a role, but turkey has a role and russia has a role. the latest news we have is that, after not signing the ceasefire – he is a man who refuses to sign the ceasefire because it seems that it would require them to agree with the agreement between al—serraj, who is heading the internationally recognised government, and turkey. but he will commit to staying in berlin next sunday – so the bad news is that there is no ceasefire and the good news is that it seems that, in spite of not having a ceasefire, they will be at the berlin conference. maybe there we can make the first step towards a political agreement. maybe you have been following all the statements that we have been delivering about libya from the foreign affairs council and by the high representative himself. let’s hope that in berlin there is a possibility of reaching an agreement between the parts and then we will have to deal with the implementation of this agreement. this will require two things: first, to monitor the ceasefire; and, second, to control the arms embargo. i will present to the foreign affairs council concrete proposals for the europeans to be more engaged on fulfilling these two duties. let’s see if we have enough will in order to act all together and start a new period of engagement with libya. that’s what i can tell you right now. other aspects have been dealt with by many of you. i cannot answer all your questions one by one, but i think i can summarise by saying that, if there is an agreement in berlin, subsequently there will be a ceasefire and then it will test the political will of the european union to be more engaged on the libyan issue. thank you for your comments.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the current situation in libya is the result of the aggression launched by the us, the eu and nato in 2011 to gain geostrategic control over the region and dominate the country's natural resources in clear violation of international law. this aggression resulted in a civil war, with untold suffering, violence and destruction. far from bringing freedom, it has only created political instability, social collapse, ethnic strife, religious intolerance, and gross violations of human rights. in the context of eu migration policies, this country has also become the centre of a network of slavery and human trafficking. the struggle for the social and political rights of the libyan people, free from the yoke of the imperialist military presence, deserves our full solidarity. the promotion of peace, sovereignty and independence in libya deserves our full support. these are the consequences of policies of undisguised colonial austerity! we trust that it will be the struggle of the peoples that will defeat them.
in writing. when the eu does not care about its neighbourhood or has other priorities to satisfy, someone else will tend to fill the gap. turkey, with its neo-ottoman expansionist moves, has set itself the goal of intervening in the eastern mediterranean and has found an ally in the collapsing regime of tripoli, which is cooperating with jihadist organizations such as the so-called "muslim brotherhood". it is turkey that has perpetuated the state of war in syria, resulting in the loss of thousands of lives and millions of refugees. today we have a repeat. it is the same conqueror for 46 years in the northern occupied territory of the republic of cyprus in the eu. the same lies. the same crimes. the same hypocrisy and expediency. i wish the voices of the children of kurdistan, in afrin, syria, and in cyprus and elsewhere could reach here. i am confident that the culture and principles of the eu will prevail in the end. i only regret that so many politicians are subjugated to the petty interests and sacrifice the greater good. the values of our culture.
in writing. – a main reason for the ongoing crisis in libya since its inception has been the interference of foreign powers which were – still are – following hidden agendas. among them feature member states of the eu. the hidden agendas include access to oil supplies; strategic interests in sub-saharan africa; occult financial operations, past and present; immigration towards europe; aspirations to achieve greater influence in the mediterranean space. foreign interference has increased in recent months. along the years, its has exacerbated the instability already inherent in a predominant feature of libyan society – its tribal organisation. one can see little prospects of peace in libya unless the hidden agendas are made explicit and aligned with the interests of the libyan people, only they – those living in the coastal cities and in the hinterland. formal conferences that try to bring ‘all sides’ together but retain the hidden agendas are quite likely destined to eventual failure. i for one hope that this will not happen. but if it does, and the current turmoil persists, then only one solution will remain that could over the medium term make sense, again in the interests of the libyan people – a military one that brings stability and internal security to the libyan territory as one whole.
the following is the text of the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in venezuela following the unlawful election of the national assembly's presidency and the presidency (2020/2507 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, a few weeks ago this plenary discussed the venezuelan humanitarian migration crisis that has markedly worsened over the past year, because of the political deadlock in the country. unfortunately, we are here today to address a further deterioration of the political crisis. this is a result of the outrageous attacks against the constitutional and democratic functioning of the national assembly, and the takeover of legislative power by an illegitimate president. force and violence were used against president guaido and many lawmakers on 5 january to prevent the legitimate election of the national assembly executive board. impeding access to the national assembly is not a major attack against democracy and the rule of law, it is, but it also polarises further and creates more obstacles to a peaceful solution to the crisis. the so-called election of luis parra is not legitimate. it did not respect the legal procedures nor the democratic constitutional principles. there was no verified quorum, there was no voting majority and general legal provisions were not respected. any acts or decisions taken by the assembly over which luis parra presides cannot be recognised by the european union. the eu and the international contact group reacted swiftly and rejected the attacks against the national assembly, reiterating clear support for juan guaido as the legitimate president of the national assembly. many other international actors qualified the harassment acts as inadmissible and condemned this violation and expressed support for juan guaido. these developments require a strong response, and further restrictive measures targeting those responsible for undermining democracy are being considered. of course, these measures shall in no way harm the venezuelan people that are already dramatically affected by the crisis. targeted sanctions cannot be the only tool, we need other complementary constructive avenues that can contribute to a peaceful solution. even though the future looks bleak, and we don’t see prospects for a short-term resolution of the political impasse, we must continue trying to create political space for negotiations. we continue to believe that a sustainable resolution of the crisis can only arise from genuine negotiation that leads to an inclusive and representative negotiated electoral path. when we talk about restoring public institutions we mean in particular restoring the credibility of the national electoral council and the supreme court of justice. without them, there can be no free and credible legislative and presidential elections and no lasting solution for venezuela. we have said many times the eu will spare no efforts to continue helping a genuine and inclusive process towards a reinstatement of democracy and rule of law with free and fair presidential elections. another dimension of our efforts is to craft a more consultative approach to the venezuelan crisis by the international community. i intend to ask a special adviser iglesias – don’t mistake which about iglesias i’m talking about; i am talking about enrique iglesias – to make a tour to outreach to key international actors and assess what more can be done. as closing remarks, i will say that we will continue to follow closely developments, in contact with other key international actors. one thing is sure, we need more concerted efforts by the whole of the international community and we need them urgently. this is what i can summarise – what they wanted to tell to you – and i’m sure that the debates will go to these conclusions which i am anticipating. we need more concerted efforts by the whole of the international community and we need them urgently. we need them urgently. the stalemate cannot last forever, and that’s what we will try to do in the following days, looking for strong support from all actors involved and asking the contact group to continue working. the so-called oslo process is also in a stalemate, and the suffering of the venezuelan people and the political situation require that we push stronger in order to look for fair and free elections, as has been required for a long time without any success, but what has happened in the election of the presidency of the national assembly puts a marking point on the dynamics of a situation which requires from us a stronger commitment. we hope it’s going to happen in the next week.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mr high representative, the truth is that this debate, after having heard the previous one, makes me think that we are not on the same course of doing too little too late. usurper nicolás maduro attempted a desperate coup d'état with military support to prevent the only legitimate power in venezuela, its national assembly, from electing its authorities. that regime has shown its true intention, which is to prevent all attempts at a democratic transition and to remain legally in power. this parliament must ratify, once again, its support for juan guaidó, not only as the legitimate president in the national assembly but also as interim president in the republic of venezuela. more than 60 countries and institutions in the democratic world have already done so. we cannot forget the causes and the perpetrators of this venezuelan crisis, nor of this attempt to overthrow the national assembly. we continue to insist to the high representative on the urgent need to establish - as he himself suggested earlier - sanctions against those responsible for flagrant violations of the rule of law. individual sanctions, which do not affect the general population. let them serve so that the guilty do not go unpunished before their misdeeds and that the citizens, who are suffering the atrocities of the regime, receive justice. the worst sanction we can impose is to fail to act in the face of continuing human rights violations and to leave that people, in the midst of violence, in the grip of the worst kind of hunger and without a future.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, as the high representative, josep borrell, has indicated, we are here today to denounce what was an attempt at a parliamentary coup by the maduro regime's government. avoiding the proper functioning of venezuela's democratic assembly, an attempt was made to subtract legitimacy, creating parallel institutional realities, to prevent juan guaidó from continuing as president. moreover, it is a source of legitimacy for many countries in the international community, a huge majority of european countries, to place him as the interim president of the country. we want to remind you that we in the european union are playing a constructive role, sometimes very frustratingly, in a regime that is not finding democratic and peaceful solutions to the situation in a country, venezuela, which is unbearable, with a humanitarian situation, with a humanitarian crisis, without parallel. that is why we will continue to work in a clear place, such as venezuela, to propose individual sanctions and, at the same time, from a constructive point of view, also with the contact group, to find a democratic solution with free and fair elections in the country.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner borrell, this resolution is more than a mere parliamentary debate or a statement by this house. this parliament, through this resolution, condemns, recognizes, questions and speaks at a key moment in the history of venezuela. condemns and denounces the tyrannical regime of nicolás maduro for attempting to orchestrate a parliamentary coup d'état to control the only democratic institution that evidences the farce of his regime. and it does so in a way that is absolutely intolerable, from harassment and violence to democratically elected and elected parliamentarians. recognizes and supports juan guaidó as the legitimate interim president of the republic of venezuela and the national assembly as its only chamber of democratic representation, while demanding respect for its deputies, denouncing the harassment and intolerable repression of the maduro regime. it called on the european union and the high commissioner to lead and step up efforts to restore democracy in venezuela, following the roadmap adopted by the national assembly and the various initiatives with the contact group. it called for the extension and intensification of sanctions against those responsible for human rights violations and repression. it calls on the member states that have not yet recognised juan guaidó as the legitimate president to do so. it also calls for its political representatives to be recognised as such. and finally, this resolution speaks directly and fraternally to the venezuelan people and says to them, with a strong and clear message, "you are not alone". this parliament demonstrates, through a large majority of its representatives - something that says that the different can agree on the defence of democracy - that it will work alongside you, alongside the venezuelan people, tirelessly, to return democracy to venezuela, initiating a process of political, economic and social reconstruction that will allow venezuela and venezuelans to look to the future with hope and hope.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, i am very pleased with the change of tone i have heard here, and which has also been noted in the broad agreement, which i think we are going to have, for the resolution on venezuela. finally, there are some who have decided that we really need to exert massive pressure on the criminal regime, this regime of communists and drug traffickers who have kidnapped venezuela, and who no longer hide anything, as they demonstrated in their assault on the national assembly. much firmer sanctions are urgent, sanctions for all those involved, maduro, padrino and so many others should not be able to dispose of a single dollar outside of venezuela. in spain there are leaders of the regime who flaunt their wealth. what is more, his links with the spanish communists, who are now in government, are alarming. we must put an end to this dictatorship because it is a danger to the region, because it kills its population every day and because it also has a power of corruption that is crossing the atlantic and is very dangerous.
it is curious that this parliament should be so intent on supporting an individual who has lost the support of even the majority of the opposition, which, not wanting to be represented by a corrupt coup d'étatist, has elected luis parra, another oppositionist, as president of the national assembly. guaidó knew he didn't have enough support and that's why, instead of entering through the door like a normal person, he decided to ride the little number and jump a fence like a goat. then, true to his coup tradition, he again proclaimed himself president, this time in the editorial office of a newspaper. some people here need to start assuming that their candidate is a fraud. let's remember that in addition to his obsession with proclaiming himself president of anything, he has also taken over the funds for humanitarian aid. and he continues to call for sanctions against his people, foreign military intervention and the lifting of the army. it is logical that guaidó is supported by those who call for a military uprising against the government of spain. for example, the honourable member who has preceded me. after all, they are heirs and nostalgic for the spanish fascist dictatorship. what is surprising is that members of this parliament with contrasting democratic concepts share speech and position with a cancer which until recently seemed to be eradicated from europe.
madam president, first of all, i would like to say to our colleagues from the far right that come to this chamber every day to tell us what the citizens think, believe, and to tell the rest of us that we are mistaken. but the truth is that you only represent 20 or 25% of the european people. it is the pro-european groups, the ones that support this resolution, that represent more than 70-75% of the vote in the last european election, so let’s set the record straight on this matter. (applause) second of all. it’s 10 years after the lisbon treaty entered into force. and if you look at the world now, some others have already said it, it is totally different from the world of 2009. at that time we didn’t have brexit; we didn’t have the arab spring; we didn’t have trump as president of the united states; we didn’t have the immigration flows. so unlike some other colleagues that mention freud and narcotization, we do live in reality. the issue is that you don’t recognise reality, the external pressures that as europeans we are facing and that we have to react with this conference on the future of europe, that i think has to lead us, because the world is there and we cannot ignore it, towards a political union of a federal sort. but we are going to do this with the citizens – in a conversation with the citizens and with organised civil society. it’s very important that we ensure the participation as well of the organised civil society. i think that we can achieve the maximum implication of ordinary citizens and ngos in this process, national parliamentarians, and then come up with a set of answers to the policy challenges that we are facing and we cannot ignore. and when we have identified these policy challenges, then we can also provide the right institutional answers. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – i didn’t understand the question. the ‘civic union’ – what does it mean? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card answer. – i believe in representative democracy, as my colleague gonzález pons said before, but i don’t see any contradiction with having a permanent consultation with citizens. as elected representatives, we have to be in touch with ordinary citizens and ngos every single day, and we also have to do this in the context of the conference on the future of europe. (applause)
mr president, let us not get carried away here today. this great conference on the future of the european union is intended either to give an opportunity to the opposition to the ever-increasing transfer of national sovereignty to the european union, a debate which is open and sincere and which is in tune with what has emerged in all elections in europe in recent years, namely less european union and more caution and freedom in european cooperation. either it is a forum, a theatrical performance like the great debate of macron where that resistance is actually set aside and made invisible. we fear that the latter, and the majority which is demanding a resolution here today has explicitly included in three places in the text, despite our amendments, that the eu should become, even more than today, in principle, an ever closer union. that is why i am voting against the report, because i believe that the commission has a duty to take account of the views of the european parliament. you should be ashamed of yourself.
madam president, those who are in charge of the european union, in order to continue to do what they have always done, must at least pretend to listen to what the people of europe are saying - that could well be the slogan of this farce. the same people who have approved treaties behind the backs of the citizens, the same people who have banned referendums when the results have become inconvenient, the same people who have disregarded the result of referendums, now seem very interested in hearing the opinion of the citizens in a process shaped by conclusions drawn from the outset. we are here to discuss the future of europe, yes, and that is why we reject this farce. we are here to discuss the future of europe, but without any staging which is intended to hide conclusions drawn from the outset. we are here above all to fight for another europe, not the neoliberal europe of the multinationals and the economic groups, but the europe of the workers and the peoples. not a militarized europe, but a europe of peace. not a europe of the imposition of the more powerful on the less powerful, but a europe of sovereign states with equal rights. we are here to discuss europe, and above all we are here to transform europe.
madam president, when we ask ourselves about the future of europe, the first thing to solve is what role we should give to citizens. if we don’t solve this, in a few years, with other meps, the same debate will have to take place and it will be a defeat. do we want citizens to be uninterested, passive and distant or, on the contrary, do we want their voice to really count and for them to be able to participate directly in european democracy? i don’t refer only to the elections of members and senior positions, but to habilitate a mechanism in order to participate in debates and decision—taking. we must update the governance of our democracy. the dissatisfaction that runs through europe only benefits europhobic populism. there is a real basis that justifies this dissatisfaction. the alternative cannot be the temptation of euroscepticism. the future of europe is not for conformists or sceptics, but exigencies. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
the question of the 'blue card'. europe is a political project based on the rule of law and the rule of law. it is a community of values, of which spain is a part. europe is the antidote to their destructive nationalism. you are a fugitive from justice, who has assaulted the rule of law and stolen public money. this week, what you fear most has begun for you. the law will be applied to him. immunity is not impunity and no one in this house is above the law. when will you have the courage? when will you lose the fear of facing... (the president withdraws the floor to the speaker).
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mrs gamon! with all due respect to you - you are new to the house - i have been here for the past few months and have also witnessed how many times we have discussed the future of europe with the participation of citizens, stakeholders and anyone else who wants to participate. the only problem is that there is no consensus here, the house is afraid to give an answer. we have had five scenarios since 2016 about a possible future for europe, and to this day the house is afraid to make a determination here. that is my charge, which i put to this committee... (the president cut the speaker off)
president, ten years, president, ten years since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and what we have had is a financial crisis, an immigration crisis, the brexit crisis. we haven't been able to solve any of these problems. it is therefore right that we should discuss the future of the union, but beware, because it seems that the solution is to continue on the path that has led to it, which is the federalisation of europe. you keep walking towards the precipice. in my view, the solution must be a free conference in which the views of not more than 20% of this parliament, which has been excluded directly from the wording of the proposal which is being presented to the house, are not excluded. is that the future of europe you want? the future of a europe which begins by sanctioning two member states and which continues to exclude from the debate - i repeat - more than 20% of the european population. there are other europeans who want a europe of free nations, of sovereign nations, cooperating freely in defence of their traditions. and i want to remind you also of something that you seem to forget: the future depends on our traditions and respect for our history, our christian culture. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i am sorry to disagree, but i am also a member of the committee on constitutional affairs and in the first debate we were presented with a proposal, signed by the four main groups, which spoke of a future of a europe closer, closer to the federalisation of europe. and from here on, you make amendments. what amendments are we going to make if you've already closed the document? i believe that to debate is to start working from the beginning and to really think about respect for our citizens.
madam president, the truth is that i think this debate is timely because there has been an attempt to falsify history and unfortunately this happens very often. this morning in the house, mrs widdecombe of the brexit party said that the original project of the european union was a free trade association and that if we had not made progress on integration, the united kingdom would still be with us. well, that's a clear and present lie. the project of european integration has been supranational from the outset, and the schuman declaration, back in 1950, said that it was the first step towards a federation for europe. but this debate also highlights that when we look at history from our national perspective, we always see the atrocities committed by others and tend to obscure those committed by our ancestors. that is why we need a shared european history, one that highlights the tragedies and the good things that we have done as europeans.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, history becomes a political tool when it is used by chauvinists and national populists to try to rewrite it. in russia, history is used to pit the country's population against european states, as well as to distract citizens from current problems. it's impossible to distort history without removing the truth seekers. the sentence of yuri dmitriev, a historian and human rights activist of the memorial organization, will be announced in russia on friday. dmitriev has dedicated his life to preserving the memory of the victims of stalinist repression. and there are millions of them. he was responsible for the discovery of mass graves of stalinist victims in the karelia region. soon the authorities spread a rumor that the graves were not those of victims of soviet terror but those of finnish red army soldiers. soon afterward, dmitriev was arrested on false charges. it's an attempt to erase the crimes of stalinism, and putin is taking it as stalin's way of doing things. judging from this and other instances of historical distortion, it is clear that the fans of the molotov-ribbentrop pact ghosts are also trying to manipulate the history of the 21st century. thank you.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. in september 2019, on the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the second world war, the european parliament adopted a resolution clearly indicating that the non-aggression pact signed on 23 august 1939 by nazi germany and the soviet union, known as the molotov-ribbentrop pact, and its secret additional protocol, in which the two totalitarian regimes divided europe and the territories of independent states into their zones of interest, was the direct cause of the outbreak of that war. as a result of this pact, poland was attacked by germany on september 1, 1939, and on september 17, the soviet union also attacked other countries in central and eastern europe. in response to this resolution, the current president of the russian federation, vladimir putin, has repeatedly questioned these historical facts in public statements, trying to blame my country, poland, for the outbreak of the second world war. the european parliament should once again condemn russia's attempts to falsify history and cover up the crimes committed by the soviet totalitarian regime and commit the commission to firmly countering such efforts.
madam president, the second world war has left an indelible mark on europe. today, although we sit at the same table and live in peace and mutual respect, we must not forget that before and after that war our positions were not equal. some had imperialist ambitions, some saw in their cooperation the solution of their national question. some were defensive of these ambitions, and some were simply "the flesh of cannon". after all, we didn't all have the same liberators. some are truly free from the terror of western, democratic powers, while others are newly captured by the communists. world war ii encompasses a series of local conflicts that had a completely different historical background. when you consider all of this, it's easy to see why the memory of that war is a little different across europe. what is most important is that crimes and criminal ideologies be condemned and that we clearly distance ourselves from any totalitarianism, whether nazi, fascist or communist.
madam president, let me remind you that the molotov-ribbentrop pact was actually a demonstration of how close totalitarian regimes are to each other. the attack on poland by both germany and the soviet union in september 1939 gives us the right to consider the soviet union as the aggressor, even though it contributed greatly to the defeat of germany and also caused great human sacrifices. russian president putin and some czech communists have questioned the true nature of the molotov-ribbentrop pact. and they accuse poland of actually being an aggressor because it allied with germany in the 1930s. that's a lie. i would like to reply to mr lebreton, who is of the opinion that we are not anti-russians. we want to say that we are against the historical lies of president putin because we do not want wars and dictatorships to be repeated in europe and we want to transmit this message to future generations.
madam president, when we speak of the past from a political institution, we cannot forget that we are not historians. but we are products of history. and to be faithful to this history, we cannot forget - recalling the argentine poet jorge luis borges's poem about buenos aires - that europe was united not by love but by awe. the horror of the holocaust, of the destruction. the horror of supremacist nationalism, which today still has heirs in this house who allow themselves to lecture an exemplary democracy like spain. the horror of nazism and communism. the scare of molotov and von ribbentrop. that is why we must be vigilant against attempts to distort european history. in the face of attempts to whitewash the mass murder of the nazi death camps or the soviet gulag. because the suffering of europeans at the hands of these criminal regimes is not negotiable. the suffering of europeans is the very stuff of which this union is made as a project of peace and freedom.
mr president, judges persecuted for demanding respect for the rule of law, the establishment of lgbt-free zones, the criminalization of sex education in schools, the persecution of freedom of expression and the right to information. in short: violation of human rights. it is tragic that this is happening in an eu country. we must be demanding, not only so that the polish government does not go unpunished and complies with the eu charter of fundamental rights, but also with regard to the role of this house in normalizing the hate speech of the far right. let us not forget that to count on the far right to put a woman in charge of the european commission is to normalize the far right. that to approve the racist policies of the fortress europe is to integrate the narrative of the extreme right. that rewriting history, denying and criminalizing anti-fascist struggles is a concession to the far right. let us not be complicit with those who want to return us to the darkest stage. let us recover the spirit of an anti-fascist europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, mr president. thank you, commissioner, for your presentation. first of all, i would like to thank the scientists and the activists for their efforts in the fight against climate change, but also for the protection of biodiversity worldwide. i think this parliament should thank them, because it is thanks to them that there is the level of awareness and also political commitment of science and environmentalists today. look, i'm going to give you a quick fact. since 1900 the average abundance of native species in most major terrestrial habitats has declined by at least 20%. more than 40 percent of amphibian species, nearly 33 percent of reef corals, and more than a third of all marine mammals are threatened; 10 percent of insects are also threatened. this is the sixth mass extinction of species. what do the citizens of the european union think? according to the latest surveys, 96% of people say that nature needs to be protected and that this is everyone's responsibility. the protection of life on our planet and the response to the demands of the citizens have therefore been the priorities with which the social democrats have approached this resolution. and i'm going to tell you very quickly seven points. the ecological transition, ladies and gentlemen, has to be fair. we must prevent new inequalities from being created. secondly, environmental taxation. i shall not tire of saying so in this house. we need sufficient resources. a new green tax model. the one who pollutes more has to pay more. deforestation - and this is very important - the european union has to legislate to achieve supply chains free of deforestation. we have to fight against illegal logging of forests. the agreement - the rapporteur for the people's party has also said this - that is adopted in china must be binding, because otherwise we will have achieved nothing. it is very important to increase protected areas from 30% in 2030 to 50% in 2050. and finally, also, reduce the percentage of pesticides. achieve a 'percentage rather' for the reduction of pesticides. ladies and gentlemen, we don't have another planet. this is the planet that the species, human beings, are on and that we live on and therefore, also from the point of view of our species, we have to help the planet in protecting biodiversity. it is very important that the resolution that comes out tomorrow is powerful to go to china with a strong and united voice in protecting biodiversity.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, during the financial crisis, we learned that the excessive closeness between the regulators and the regulated – the banks, the financial sector – can have a real cost to taxpayers. we’re not talking about vague ethical standards without implications, we’re talking about rules that actually matter to the taxpayers. why? because if those who are setting the rules are actually not setting the rules for the taxpayers, but they are setting the rules for the system, because they’re hoping to go back to the financial system, etc., what we end up is with rules that are actually not working, with rules that lead to bailouts and with rules that lead to taxpayers footing the bill. the favourite bet of investors is one where heads they win, tails the taxpayers lose. that’s why this case is so important, and that’s why parliament is sending a very loud and clear message. i congratulate my colleagues from all the four main parties – mr tang, ms tingali, chair of the committee, mr ferber, mr giegold – on coming together and passing already a resolution on this case unanimously, the entire parliament. we are continuing working on building and maintaining these boundaries between regulators and those who are regulated. this case goes beyond any conception of those boundaries. it basically makes a laughing stock of those staff regulations you mentioned, mr commissioner, and it basically means, well you know, if you want to ignore those rules and go around them, then you may. that’s why parliament has taken such a decisive action. we don’t take this this problem lightly. we will be policing and monitoring in the future that the staff regulations are maintained and enforced. that ethical body you proposed, mr commissioner, seems like a good idea. anything that can make this work, this prohibition and these boundaries between the two sides of the wall work, and we think that that’s to the benefit of our economies, our citizens our taxpayers.
author. madam president, we are witnessing a widespread backsliding in civil and political rights around the world, which is manifesting itself in different ways. in europe, through laws that criminalize protest and the widespread rise of hate, manifested on the far right. in latin america, with lawfare, with different direct attacks on different people, defenders of the territory and the environment. in the middle east, by creating a black hole of impunity in which international conventions of humanitarian law and international law are swept away. africa is not a continent that escapes this dangerous trend. today we are talking about burundi, where the political and economic crisis for the last four years is worsening, where the human rights violations are essentially political in nature, from the government, and the suppression of civil liberties is intensifying in a period leading up to the presidential and legislative elections in 2020. the immediate and unconditional release of all detainees who freely express their opinions is necessary. the violence, human rights violations and political intimidation against civil society and the opposition must cease immediately. we must act decisively in favour of freedom of expression by abolishing the measures taken against ngos and the media; we must respect international treaties on human rights and against torture. the cessation of these human rights violations is the precondition for the burundian government, with the mediation of neighbouring countries, to establish a process of peaceful political dialogue. but none of this can happen if we in europe do not get involved. and europe must also decide what role it wants to play in today's world. that is why we need concrete action. europe must demonstrate its commitment to peace by granting refugee status also to burundian asylum seekers, as recommended by the united nations, and also work on official development aid on the ground, also so that neighbouring countries are able to take in refugees, and ensure that european companies operating in burundi respect international standards. the european union's relationship with africa has always been complicated. it doesn't tie us together with a history we can be proud of. it is precisely for this reason that it is time for europe to embark on a relationship with foreign policy objectives aligned with the interests of the african people, focused on human rights, sustainable development and democracy.
madam president, commissioner, this debate we are having here today is in response to the tragic events that took place in nigeria on christmas day, when christian faithful were murdered in cold blood for the simple fact of wanting to profess their faith. we are talking today and we are having this debate today because this terrible attack has happened against christians in nigeria. it is not an isolated attack, it is attacks that are happening over time, in the face of the passivity of the authorities in nigeria. just to give you some figures of what happened, since 2015, more than 6,000 christians have been killed by jihadist terrorists in nigeria. of course nigeria has other dramas and boko haram, of course, is killing muslims and jews. but this case - and this resolution - is about a drama that is happening, which is the persecution of christians in the world, and we must not take the spotlight off it. and i regret to see how, when this resolution was negotiated, there was more interest, more emphasis, in removing the christian word from the resolution than in talking about what had happened, than in focusing on the tremendous events that are happening. in the last plenary we spoke about the attacks in burkina faso, and today we deplore what happened in nigeria, and of course i would like to send my condolences to the families and friends of the victims. but i would like to take the last few seconds i have left to remind you of just a few figures, so that we can understand that we are indeed experiencing persecution of christians in the world, to which the european union cannot remain indifferent. it must react, because we are talking about western values, about the judeo-christian values on which the european project was built. just to keep you in the loop, we're talking about 4,305 christians killed, according to the open doors report released in 2020. we cannot remain passive. we must react and defend the values of this union, the judeo-christian values, which are the foundation of this union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. madam president, it is true that some colleagues in this house have said that. we cannot escape the reality of the african continent. we must demand that the authorities, in this case nigeria, defend, protect the christians. let them take action. let them not stand idly by, as we are sadly seeing. as we are seeing how the army, how the security forces are not defending. we must demand these measures.
madam president, the rules of procedure contain the words that ‘members shall not display banners’, so it all hinges on the definition of what is a banner. is a flag a banner? i’ve just looked up the definition of a banner on wikipedia, and it says: ‘a banner can be a flag or other piece of cloth bearing a symbol, logo, slogan or other message’. so the president would appear to be within his rights to ask for these flags to be removed. i am not saying it is a wise decision but it is a legal decision.
madam president, i would like to denounce the very serious events that took place less than 24 hours ago in caracas, where the regime's paramilitary organizations attacked the vehicles in which the president of the national assembly was travelling with stones, sticks and gunfire. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to ask specifically that the resolution should also ask for the life of the legitimately elected members of the national assembly of venezuela to be guaranteed.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i think that all of us who have been and are approaching this issue will agree that we are facing a tool, a technological and democratizing advance which, in some way, represents a very great opportunity. 3d printing of course has many different approaches, but it's obvious that it can help us, even from the point of view of saving materials, from the point of view of less pollution. we are talking about production, the possibility of producing more and more with larger tools and machines and with greater capacity in the place where the activity is to be established, avoiding transport, for example, as well. a democratization, in the end, as i said, of access to certain things. but it is also true, on the other hand, that it also poses a major challenge with regard to a lot of things. security is one of them. we have already referred to the possibility of building weapons. and we've had some examples over the last few months and these last few years of the difficulty that still exists of controlling certain things, certain blueprints, certain ways of building that can even be downloaded from the web itself, from what's called the deep internet, the deep web. and it also, of course, raises a number of other challenges that, legally, are not yet well resolved. and i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commission to take this into account from the point of view of the respect for intellectual property itself. and there are also a lot of examples of how, somehow, there is little control over the use of the intellectual production of individuals or collectives who, somehow, have been working on productions - as i say - of an intellectual nature. and there is not enough protection in our legislation yet. moreover, the exceptions being proposed are too vague and too broad. i would like to see that, as we have done with so many things and as we have done with the web itself and with the use, with the digital use of the access to intellectual and cultural content itself, we do it in this field as well. anyway, i'll just end with this. sorry about the extension. i would particularly encourage the commission to fill in some of the legal gaps and also to coordinate and harmonize some of the legislation that already exists.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, last week the storm gloria had devastating effects on the spanish state, where up to thirteen people lost their lives. gloria has had an unprecedented ecological and agricultural impact, and this is clearly a consequence of the effects of climate change. the coast has been particularly affected. a great number of beaches have disappeared. infrastructure along the coast is badly damaged. the storm has caused damage especially in the ebro delta, one of the most valuable natural reserves in the mediterranean, where seawater has entered up to three kilometers into the land, flooding thousands of hectares of rice paddies, beaches and natural landscapes. in view of these facts and the need to activate european financial co-financing mechanisms to mitigate the effects of the storm and protect the coast, we, on behalf of the green group, propose a debate without a resolution in order to discuss the european union's response before the commission.
madam president, it is, as has been said, a very sad day for the pro—europeans, most of the members of this house. we will be voting in favour of this agreement because there is no choice in order to avoid the worst, which is a no—deal brexit. i think it is important also to reply to some of the things that have been said by mr hannan and mr farage and mr van orden. they said it is the fault of the maastricht treaty, that this was never meant to be a political union. i would ask you, have you ever read the schuman declaration of 1950, which says that the coal and steel community was the first step forward to a european federation? why is it that clement attlee and anthony eden didn’t want to sign up to the coal and steel community or to the common market? it was because of the pooling of sovereignty. so you decided to leave, but don’t give the wrong answers to the matter at hand. good luck and see you soon.
mr president, epidemics and viruses know no borders and therefore the coronavirus epidemic continues to spread in china. europe has always distinguished itself in responding to health emergencies around the world, in early detection and prevention. seventeen years after the epidemic of acute respiratory syndrome, the lessons learned must be put into action to counter this epidemic. the european union is an example in the world of solidarity, cooperation, efficiency, but we are also a world leader in prevention and health care. we therefore have an obligation to support any country in difficulty in respecting the principles of solidarity and cooperation on which the european union is built, and we must therefore also demand transparency and information from china. because we think that the european union should activate the european emergency response coordination centre to facilitate these assistance and advisory actions to china and other affected countries, and also to be able to coordinate early response in the member states and prevention in the member states. and we have to get to work, coordinated by the european commission and, of course, with the collaboration of the who. europe must ensure the protection of the public health of its citizens, as well as of citizens in the rest of the world. and that's why we need to be on the front lines of organizing a coordinated response to the health emergency, which can become global.
i would say to the commission and the council, mr president, that above all, seriousness, not alarmism, but seriousness in communication. we have many eu citizens living in asia and, in addition, we have a lot of international trade, so we have to be serious about communication. i think we've learned from previous crises and we have a prior knowledge. let's get it up and running. of course, coordination between member states and within the european union is essential. we have common borders and we must control them, but, as i say, without falling into a panic. the european union's health workers and our emergency services have learned from previous crises, and so we have that knowledge which will allow us not to be alarmed. and i also speak of repatriations. it is not the same to repatriate people who are living abroad and who are in a state of alert as people who have and present symptoms: we must know how to differentiate and justify; let's put protocols in place and communicate them well.
mr president, this is one of those debates that we're postponing because there's never a hot topic on the agenda, like the fires in brazil last summer. i believe that, as mrs santos said, the fact that we have had some candidates from indigenous peoples in the sakharov prize has at least brought the matter to the surface. the indigenous peoples must be treated fairly - all my colleagues have said this - but they must also be treated with strategic intelligence. we must abandon the traditional paternalistic eurocentrism and incorporate indigenous peoples into contemporary debates and global decision-making, for example on climate change. combining the ancient wisdom of indigenous cultures with the technological development of developed countries is an advantage, it's a strength we have to explore. and we have to start talking far beyond north-south cooperation -- also beyond south-south cooperation -- and start talking about south-north cooperation. and there are some shining examples of how, from countries like kenya, a nobel laureate was able, with traditional systems and using the workforce of women, to plant 50 million trees. the comrades have said it: the indigenous peoples must be protected. but they must also be defended for their added value, for the surplus value they represent in the world economic and social order.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the virus, including the introduction of a new vaccine for the virus. a law that not only violates the secular nature of the indian constitution itself, by introducing religion as a criterion for obtaining nationality, but also breaks international commitments based on human rights, as denounced by the office of the united nations high commissioner. this law is not only discriminatory in itself, it is a dangerous resurgence for the rights of all, from the reactionary international. prime minister modi, in connection with trump, with bolsonaro, started his second term with dangerous decisions in the kashmir conflict by attacking ngos and curtailing public freedoms. europe must stand with the millions of indian workers who are striking for their labour rights; with the women's groups who are denouncing gang rape. this means making the strategic agreement conditional on a substantial change in human rights. either we are determined to be an independent political actor able to engage in dialogue on an equal footing, or europe itself is at risk.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her speech, which has set out very clearly the lines to be followed, many of which we obviously share. i would like to quote the following sentence, which i quote verbatim: 'the person who travels by plane the most is probably the one who has the most resources or whose tickets are paid for by the company'. these are the irresponsible statements made by the vice-president of the government of spain in an interview yesterday. an unfortunate anti-aircraft rhetoric that pretends to question citizens who use the plane to travel simply and simply, and they are questioned simply because they are free. speeches like this, which we do not share at all, what they do is to seek out, blame and criminalize not only the industry but also all those people who use certain goods or services simply because they are free and have the ability to choose. the criminalisation of transport not only ruins truck drivers and pilots, but also leads directly to the bankruptcy of foreign trade, of our exports, of internal trade and, of course, of island regions. i come from some islands, the balearic islands, and we need safe, reliable, fast transport, in this case, such as airplanes. and we do it either out of necessity or because we want to. simply because we are free citizens. today more than ever, the european institutions need to move away from populism and see transport not as a threat but as an opportunity, not to say a necessity. we need to think constructively. we need to rely on new technologies, on new opportunities that are being offered to us, also with biofuels or with alternative fuels. banning, flagging, criminalizing is never the answer. and it is precisely those of us here who have that responsibility.
madam president, madam commissioner, the revision of the ten-t regulation will be one of the fundamental pillars of the next strategy for sustainable mobility and transport and it must be aligned with the new objectives of the green pact. this requires specific legislative proposals to strengthen railways, to promote more efficient and sustainable freight and passenger transport, for which the promotion of multimodality is essential, and to improve interconnection with ports, airports, logistics platforms, urban nodes, island regions and also rural areas. the commission has also identified a number of other areas where the use of electric vehicles is likely to be affected by the introduction of new technologies. simplification of administrative processes is needed to work more effectively on cross-border projects. and strong funding instruments are also needed, such as the next cef, where already 60% of its allocation is allocated to actions promoting sustainable and smart mobility. i therefore stress the importance of maintaining parliament's position during the ecm negotiations.
madam president, i would like to speak today in this house about andalusia, the european green deal and also about mobility. i would like to speak about doñana national park, a biosphere reserve and the most biodiverse area in europe and also a world heritage site. the andalusian government has announced that it will tender for the construction of a third rail, apparently reversible, on the road between matalascañas and almonte, in the doñana natural park. while it is true that this project is very much in demand and can improve road safety, we must look very closely at how it is implemented and how it is materialized. we are talking about an extremely sensitive area from an environmental point of view. a few months ago, the andalusian government announced a plan to build a highway in doñana. i then asked the european commission a question, and they clearly replied that they would be vigilant to ensure that this motorway was not built. in this sense i think that this new project should also be monitored very closely. i also want to take this opportunity to put on the table the need to continue to deepen the debate on mobility and the tourist model in a national park.
madam president, first of all, a special greeting on a day like today to my colleagues richard corbett, julie ward, jude kirton-darling and claude moraes. secondly, i want to use this speech to denounce before this house and the european public - and to inform the commission - a serious initiative taken by the spanish far-right vox party in the region of murcia with the so-called 'parental veto', which seeks to restrict the participation of children in complementary activities which they consider they should not receive. i mean gender equality, sexual orientation or education for citizenship. this is a very serious matter which we must also combat from the european public sphere and i hope that the commission and most of the political groups in this house will help us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow in euskal herria, in the autonomous community of the basque country and in the foral community of navarre, there will be a call for a general strike in defence of pensions and decent working and living conditions for workers in general. this strike is inspired by the large mobilizations of pensioners and the initiative of the community charter of social rights, which advocates building a different socioproductive model, which puts life at the center, giving priority to the care of people and the sustainability of the planet. we want to show our support for this call and urge the commission to pursue measures to ensure that the member states implement decent pensions and minimum wages, guarantee the right to return to work alive and the elimination of the wage gap, introduce the 35-hour working day, eliminate social cuts, support public services and introduce social clauses in all administrative contracts. the rights we enjoy today were not given to us by anyone. they were won through struggle and mobilization, and tomorrow, no doubt, there will be a new opportunity to defend and improve them.
madam president, in the face of climate change deniers, spain was hit by the storm gloria, with heavy rains, wind, waves and brutal snowfalls that left thousands of people in my region, aragon, isolated, and whose melting now threatens many populations by the overflowing of the rivers. nearly 4,000 kilometers of roads and 142 municipalities in the provinces of zaragoza and teruel have been affected, with thousands of people cut off from communication, without electricity or water, without internet connection or coverage; there has also been damage to buildings and ships and severe losses in the countryside and livestock. cooperation between the central and regional governments has been essential and, together with the security forces, the ume and the regional emergency services, municipalities and neighbours are working to respond to the exceptional situation. this exceptional situation further highlights the need for the european institutions, together with national, regional and local authorities, to work towards territorial and socioeconomic cohesion and to find solutions to the challenges facing these rural and mountain areas, which are also suffering from depopulation and the urgent need to improve their transport and telecommunications infrastructures.
madam president, last monday a minister of the spanish socialist-communist government went clandestinely to barajas airport at midnight to meet - and avoid arrest - with delcy rodríguez, vice-president of the maduro dictatorship in venezuela, a criminal subject to sanctions by the european union, which prohibits her entry into europe. we know that the dictatorship has financed spanish communists, we know that the former socialist president zapatero is the main defender of the criminal narco-dictatorship. the communists financed by that narco-dictatorship are now in the spanish government. the european union must investigate the background to this very serious violation of the european union's own sanctions against criminals in caracas by this spanish socialist-communist government.
madam president, today we are hearing about the commission's 2020 work programme, a fundamental programme which will set the course for the european project and which we support. but yesterday brexit came into being and we have to learn from our mistakes. europe is the greatest project of progress, peace and unity, but populism, separatism and euroscepticism have been growing alongside the european project. these movements want to destroy what we've built together. let us not reduce our political project to a mere legislative plan. let's make politics in capital letters with this work programme. we stand for the rule of law, the values of the union, freedom, equality and economic and social progress. the european commission is the guardian of the treaties and of all community secondary legislation, including council decisions and regulations, which are binding in their entirety on all member states. on 13 november 2017, the council adopted a regime of sanctions and entry restrictions for certain members of the illegitimate government of maduro of venezuela in the schengen area. on 25 june 2018, the council added delcy rodríguez, illegitimate vice-president of the maduro government, to the list of persons subject to restrictions. it was the government of pedro sánchez which violated these council agreements, allowing this lady to walk for hours on spanish soil, which is the schengen area. in view of the gravity of these events, we ask the commission to gather all the information necessary to know the truth, to demand that pedro sánchez comply with the council's resolutions, because we cannot allow a european government to fail to comply with community law, because otherwise what we are approving today would be meaningless and we would be turning away from the europeans. we are here to defend the future of europe together.
madam president, during the elections, but also in the last months as socialists and democrats, we made it clear to the european commission that we want social, economic and environmental change. and this is the very year in which we must begin the transformation that we have spoken about and believed in. because we not only dream about change but we have to implement that change. the political decisions we will take this year should pave the way for the economy we want in the member states and will guide us in seeing which technologies we want to invest in. but we need member states to adopt these measures and this new policy. that is why we are insisting on a serious policy to reduce pollution, investing in clean industries, energy efficiency, clean transport, the elimination of polluting fuels, ships that no longer dock in ports and airports that pollute far, far less than we do today. but to make this leap we need funds and we need to invest through a fund to help workers, those regions and countries that want to move from polluting industries to much cleaner ones. this is the future, this is the decision we must take for the countries we represent and ultimately for our families.
commissioner, first of all i would like to express my support for the main message of the commission work programme. the message is a transition that offers opportunities. opportunities for every citizen of the european union, for every member state, for every region. opportunities for a fair, climate-neutral and digital europe, but also a transition that guarantees the rule of law, regulates migration processes, supports trade agreements. european citizens expect us to take concrete action to ensure that the european institutions work effectively. cooperation on the work programme is an example of such effective work. together we must make this ambitious programme a reality and offer european citizens a transition that will make the european economy more competitive and improve the quality of life for every european union citizen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what can i say? we are facing the same europe that does not want to change anything, the same europe that wants to cheat italy, with the complicity of the pd-5 star government. we are at zero on the fight against illegal immigration. the malta agreement on immigration is a big bluff. on the crisis in libya, with the danger of islamic terrorism and new waves of immigrants, europe does not exist. on the mes you are ready to return to office to get your hands on the current account of the italians and on the green deal you have built the last great scam: the italians will pay 900 million euros and in return they will only receive 360. i wonder: but does gentiloni, the commissioner appointed by the pd and 5 stars, defend the interests of the italians or those of germany and france? this is not the europe we want, this is not the future that the italian people want. italy will not die a slave to brussels, paris or berlin, let that be clear!
madam president, i congratulate the whole commission on the marketing success of launching this programme which is based primarily on the green deal. the green pact already evokes that slogan of mao tse-tung's great leap forward. it justifies absolutely everything: death sentences or the liquidation of productive industries, massive taxation, mandatory changes to communities and sectors, regulations and behavioural controls. in this way they have managed to frighten whole sections of europeans in wide regions. they're afraid, but no one complains because they're branded as denialists, and from there to civilian death today there's very little. we are going to spend on this adventure an additional 260 billion euros a year. and all for really ideological reasons. there are immense challenges in europe, which are others, and we are going to be marking, for ideological reasons, issues that will limit our freedoms first and foremost.
madam president, today is a sad day, the last day for the united kingdom. we will find out many of the negative consequences for us and for them over the next weeks. i want to point one out that is really particularly worrying. with the uk in, europe is an education super power. some of the best universities in the world are in the european union. without it, the european union becomes relatively a minion. university college london, imperial college london, cambridge, oxford, they all leave the european union today. if you look at the most recent qs ranking of the 50 top universities in the world, there are 12 in asia, 21 in the united states, 11 in the uk and switzerland. there is one of the world’s top universities in europe – the university of delft at number 50. this is really a critical situation. we talk about innovation, we talk about the knowledge economy and yet we are not investing in our universities. the work programme of the commission doesn’t even mention the word university. we have an archaic government. we have funding problems. we have a mobility problem. this is a real crisis for europe. we need to become an education superpower if we’re going to succeed in a knowledge economy.
mr president, mr commissioner, thank you very much for your presentation. i strongly support the commission's work programme. i am glad that you have also referred to the conference on the future of europe as a priority; i know that you personally support it as a substantive and ambitious exercise. and in that sense, i think it is also important, as other members have said, for example ska keller, who is here, that what happened yesterday with the vote we had to take in favour of brexit is an occasion for us to come together more as europeans and to move forward in the political unity of europe. i think the commission has to support the tendency of the large pro-european groups in this parliament, that we believe that now is the time to make that qualitative leap in political integration, precisely because that is what the europeans have given us as a mandate in the last elections.
mr president, commissioner, we are of course pleased that the priorities of the commission's work programme for 2020 include the entire green deal, given the climate emergency declared by this parliament itself. but we believe that the commission should also focus more on its work on external action, on how we lead and defend international humanitarian law, on how we further strengthen development cooperation and humanitarian aid. we know that the countries that have contributed the least to global warming and pollution are the countries that are suffering the most from the effects of climate change and the effects of this climate emergency. other regions of the world have already made progress on how to protect people who are forced to leave their places of origin because of the climate, for example through the kampala convention or the cartagena declaration in latin american countries. we ask you, commissioner, to make progress in this work programme on how to define and protect people displaced by climate change and to indicate how to move forward with european protection of the figure of the climate refugee.
in writing. i welcome the inclusion in the commission's work programme of an action plan for roma social inclusion. it is important that both the croatian and german presidencies play an active role in the development of the pan-european roma strategy, as the situation of roma is a concern in almost all member states. i consider it my own priority to represent the interests of the roma, the disadvantaged and those living in extreme poverty, and i am ready to contribute my experience to the work of the commission and the council to develop a complex, comprehensive programme. i want to avoid the bad practice of 2010 where my proposals are misinterpreted by the institutions. i ask the commission and the council to keep in touch. the stakes are high: we must eliminate the harmful and ineffective programs that have been in place. we need to involve local actors in every process from planning to control, to eliminate corruption, overcharging and redundant bureaucracy. and the commission's new green deal is a guide to how we can create an alternative and sustainable development model for those living in extreme poverty through green economy projects involving renewable energy.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the commission takes the issue of tax crimes seriously. the money that is being embezzled by criminals, or so the people involved in this practice are called, is being taken from the citizens of individual european union countries. the budget cuts mean less good things for health, safety, technological development and a decent life for all europeans. finally, the reduced national budgets also risk putting pressure on the community budget. in 2017, €137 billion was leaked from vat alone. these measures could help address many of the problems we face. there is great potential for coordination between countries at eu level. i would like to take this opportunity to emphasise that poland has done a great job of closing the vat gap in just a few years, and has used the funds raised for, among other things, successful social programmes. does the commission draw on existing and well-functioning solutions when proposing new legislation? inventing the wheel a second time will be a waste of time and money. finally, i would like to stress the tremendous importance of the rule of law in the area of taxation. according to the treaties, tax proposals must be unanimously adopted by the member states. attempts to creatively circumvent this requirement will undermine the commission's credibility and strike at the very foundations of how our community operates.
in writing. in order to eradicate energy poverty, which affects 50 million europeans, we call on the commission to propose an action plan with clear targets and directions and to take into account in the impact studies the effects of new legislative proposals on the fight against energy poverty. i also call for the future industrial policy to contain bold measures to support our industrial base, ensure the competitiveness of european industry, and create and encourage european champions. unfortunately, i have not seen any mention in the commission's work programme of the carbon border adjustment mechanism, which is important both for european industry and as a source of new funds. i welcome the fact that in the commission's proposal for the just transition fund, romania is allocated the sum of eur 757 million, or 10% of the eur 7,5 billion for the period 2021-2027. i want you to ensure that the most affected regions and member states get the maximum benefit from the just transition mechanism, to have economic growth and create sustainable jobs. last but not least, because research and innovation are key to delivering on the scale of the ambitions we set ourselves, i argue that a budget of €120 billion for horizon europe is necessary.
in writing. the ambitions of the programme do not meet the needs of the citizens. the green deal proposal is a travesty and a marketing ploy that will not lead to any real results. without a mea culpa from the eu, on its failed policies, it is useless to continue to discuss reforms that are rooted in the ideological approach alone. in its disastrous method, the commission also insists on foreign policy: it is not enough to be intellectually honest to observe that europe continues to show its fragility in the international context. the conference on the future of europe is also in the dark, and it wants to involve the citizens in a process of alleged change, but the main actors will be the same ones who have brought the european project to the precarious stage we are now in. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i regret that the new commission programme does not provide answers to the questions which concern european citizens: the commission has not yet taken any concrete steps on immigration, internal security and the revival of the european economy. again, this program, it's just a name.
the work programme submitted by the european commission for 2020 is in line with the programme approved by the european parliament for the mandate. the priorities reflect the objective of affirming the european union through decarbonisation, growth and convergence internally and affirming its values externally. the programme reflects a positive development in the conceptualisation of the european green deal, notably through a better articulation of the digital and energy transitions, as well as the inclusion of a social dimension, still insufficient but stronger. i also stress the concern for the robustness of democracy and the commitment to concrete measures and to the mobilisation of citizens through active participation in the conference on the future of europe. the credibility and trust generated by the work programme is, however, clearly undermined by the continued vagueness regarding the financing mechanisms in general and the multiannual financial framework in particular. the key to the success or failure of this programme lies less in the ability of the commission or the support of parliament than in the willingness of the council to take a structural and ambitious stance in the allocation of the financial resources which make the work programme viable.
the following is the debate on the commission statement on the 'eu response to the devastating floods in spain' (2020/2537 ((rsp)). i ask my colleagues to continue to observe the time strictly so that we can proceed to the votes at the scheduled time.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i think that the topic we are going to discuss now is just clear testimony to the fact that climate change is real, and its impacts are sometimes too real, too dramatic and too devastating. extreme weather events are happening more and more frequently and with greater intensity. drought and forest fires are no longer confined to the mediterranean, tropical hurricanes travel up to the coast of ireland and heavy rain and flash floods occur across the whole of europe. the recent flooding disaster in spain caused by storm gloria is yet another example. our thoughts are with the people of spain suffering from this new disaster. in particular, our deepest condolences go to all those who lost loved ones. europe stands with the people of spain. we have a tool to provide assistance once serious natural disasters have occurred. the eu solidarity fund intervenes to assist the population with the recovery of essential infrastructure, with cleaning—up operations and with the safeguarding of the cultural heritage. however, the solidarity fund is no emergency instrument and it takes some time to mobilise it. most importantly, the european parliament and the council must approve the activation of the fund and the budget resources once the commission has assessed the application from the member state. once immediate assistance to the population in response to the disaster is under control, the spanish authorities should assess the damage caused to see whether it succeeds the relevant threshold of 1.5 percentage points of the regional gdp. this is the essential condition for a successful solidarity fund application. the spanish authorities are well familiar with the conditions and procedures of the fund, but of course, the commission services stand ready to provide further guidance and assistance as required. we are currently in the process of assessing an earlier spanish application received in november, which includes the autonomous region of valencia, murcia, castilla-la mancha and andalusia for the severe weather last september. spain provided an important information update on this disaster only this week, and an advance payment of eur 5.7 million is on its way, but in the future, we know that we must be prepared to do more. what happened in spain is, unfortunately, a foretaste of what is to come as a climate change continues. the eu solidarity fund brings welcome support after disasters have happened, but we must be more proactive. this is why in recent years, the commissioner has been putting an increasing focus on prevention, climate adaptation and the risk management policies. for cohesion policy, disaster risk management is vital because local and regional authorities are the first to face the impacts of disasters because it is a cost—effective investment in preventing future losses and also because it contributes to sustainable development. in this period, 2014—2020 cohesion policy is investing almost eur 8 billion in climate change adaptation and risk prevention. this includes a broad array of support. floods are the main risk addressed, followed by coastal erosions, forest fires, earthquakes and droughts. prevention is the main focus of our investment. actions to improve the modelling of risk, early-warning systems, preparation of strategies and guidelines, awareness raising, grey or green infrastructure for flood protection, sustainable land and forest management, et cetera. in this period, we have also seen a large focus on green infrastructure to manage risk, like flood plains and green urban spaces. the commission also provides guidelines and it encourages member states to compile national risk assessments, which are an essential and necessary tool to fight the impact of floods. besides prevention, we also focus on preparedness with support for equipment, infrastructure and training for civil protection units. european money also supports the development and improvement of the eu early-warning and information systems. fed by a network of sensors and satellites, they provide reliable information about the development of extreme meteorological events, improving the prediction of the impact of events such as floods. these systems also enable the emergency—response community to monitor and share reliable information, to prepare to respond and to better coordinate response efforts. finally, we offer flexibility in our cohesion programmes. programme amendments can be proposed and then swiftly agreed to shift resources towards areas that are most at need, so if changes need to be made, we can still do this within this funding period. the commission’s proposals for cohesion policy after 2020 include disaster risk management and climate adaptation as specific objectives. prevention and preparedness measures include infrastructure, equipment shelters, development of early—warning systems and training for civil protection units. where appropriate, these measures cross borders.
on behalf of the ppe group mr. president, i cannot begin my speech without remembering all the people who have lost their lives to the storm, their families and loved ones. to the missing, the wounded, all of you, i extend our support and affection. spain has suffered the terrible consequences of the gloria storm, but a few months ago also of dana, where so many neighbours have seen their houses, their cars, their streets, their businesses, their farms, their fields, their orchards, destroyed. we have suffered great natural and economic losses in places necessary for our ecosystem and economy, such as the ebro delta - the only place in europe and the third largest producer of rice in spain - where the growth of the sea has caused, in addition to environmental damage, the disappearance of crops worth more than four million euros; or in places such as the valencian community, where citrus, agricultural infrastructure, seasonal vegetables and livestock have suffered losses of up to 63 million euros; or as the balearic islands, which has lost its beaches, and so many spanish regions affected, such as andalusia, murcia, castilla-la mancha or aragon. the spanish people affected need a quick and effective response from the spanish government. we demand that the spanish government evaluate the affected areas quickly, speed up aid, apply for the european union's solidarity fund and declare the affected municipalities as disaster areas. the european union cannot be left behind. it should therefore activate the solidarity fund and the cohesion fund. it must work for a bigger budget in the new cap to have more resources to finance risk prevention for our farmers and livestock farmers. an ambitious green deal, which protects our environment against the effects of climate change, which invests in improving water infrastructure and protecting and cleaning our forests and rivers to prevent future weather events. europe cannot look the other way and must act. the spanish people who have suffered from the storm cannot wait another day, and the partido popular will not rest until this aid reaches those affected. we will always be with them and never leave them behind.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, in just a few months of this parliament's term, this is the third natural disaster we have debated in the european parliament. and i very much fear that it will not be the last because, certainly, climate change is an unmistakable reality, evidenced in storms like the ones we have suffered in spain. in fact, according to the european commission's own figures, more than 500 000 people in the european union are exposed to these phenomena, to a certain risk of river flooding, and 2.2 million people, also in the european union, are at risk of being affected by coastal flooding. so this is not a problem of today, of spain, but it is a problem of all of us. and since it's a problem for all of us, we need to start taking it seriously. and that's why it's very important that we start implementing measures to prevent it. but it is also very important that the solidarity fund should be implemented immediately. we need it to show that this too is cohesion and that our country, like any other country at any time, can get the support of the european union to compensate for all the damage caused by this terrible storm. there are things that you're not going to be able to recover, like human lives, unfortunately. but europe can also stand by us so that we do not leave behind all the families and sectors that have been affected by this storm. i would like to thank you, mr vice-president, for the speed and flexibility with which you have implemented this fund.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, thank you for your words. hurricane gloria has hit spain hard: fourteen dead, eighty-three injured, two missing. the balance is devastating. there are municipalities in catalonia, the valencian community, the balearic islands, murcia and aragon which have suffered losses of millions in infrastructure and in the countryside. waterways, beaches, citrus crops have been destroyed in regions that depend on agriculture and tourism. and the worst part is that this is not an isolated phenomenon; we have just suffered the consequences of aids, and experts warn us that these phenomena are going to increase. that is why i would like to ask the commission here today to come forward with effective proposals. i propose three actions. first of all, the solidarity fund. we must activate it, but also, if these phenomena are increasing, we need to increase the budget of the solidarity fund so that all the people who suffer from these tragedies are covered. secondly, improving the procedures. we cannot go through long administrative procedures, and in spain our farmers are still waiting for the aid from dana. and thirdly, improving systems for preventing natural disasters and adapting to climate change at all levels. it's critical to saving lives. in short, let us put a value on one of the fundamental values of the european union, solidarity, because we need it now more than ever.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, last week the storm gloria had devastating effects in catalonia and the rest of the state. thirteen people lost their lives. this climate phenomenon has had an unprecedented ecological and agricultural impact and is a clear consequence of the effects of climate change. the gloria pass has washed away a large number of beaches and infrastructure along the coast, and caused serious damage to the ebro delta and the tordera and ter river basins. according to initial estimates, the impact of the damage amounts to, for example, 74 million in the barcelona area alone, or 16 million in the catalan primary sector. in view of the need for a rapid response, we call on the european commission and the spanish government to take three actions: first, to activate urgently the resources of the european regional development fund to co-finance the repairs of the damage; secondly, as you have rightly said, the solidarity fund; but, finally, also to draw up a specific action plan for the mediterranean coast and the delta, in line with the declaration on the protection of the ebro delta adopted yesterday by the catalan government and local actors.
the european union is also concerned about the situation in the mediterranean, and the situation in the mediterranean is particularly serious. we are still mourning the loss of 14 lives and the wounding of dozens. gloria has caused devastating effects on infrastructure, street furniture, beaches, crops, businesses and homes; damages aggravated - which also has to be said - by policies of ball-point penetration and urban speculation by irresponsible and corrupt governments that have done so much damage to the coastline. climate change is already having very visible consequences. this phenomenon is affecting our entire country very intensely, which during 2019 has suffered severe floods and floods throughout the territory, also in andalusia, euskadi or navarra. it is too early to have a global assessment of the damage, valued in millions of dollars, that will be inflicted on our economy and our people. today we are asking this parliament for support to activate the solidarity fund for disasters; for a change in the criteria for the funds so that individual country cases are not collected, but the annual global number of cases due to the same cause: climate change; for stronger measures against urban corruption and a determined commitment to implementing policies against the climate emergency. let's not wait for the next catastrophe to act. we're doing well in it.
mr president, the storm gloria must be a call, once again, for action by the european union. the effects of climate change are beginning to affect the spanish mediterranean. in october 2018, a very intense storm gave the first alarm signal in my region, specifically in sant llorenç des cassadar, in mallorca. also, in october of this year, a dana swept through the region and last week the storm gloria struck the balearic islands, catalonia and valencia, causing fourteen deaths. and in the balearic islands, two people are still missing, whose families i wish to extend my warmest sympathy from this parliament. all indications are that these intense storms will become more frequent. the regions most affected are therefore asking for help, both to recover from the effects and to adapt to the new reality. the solidarity fund should have mechanisms in place to mobilise resources urgently for the affected regions. in the balearic islands, the consequences of the storm have been twofold. in addition to the material and human damage, the food supply has been disrupted. and this is another reason why the european union should take island status seriously as a disadvantage suffered by the citizens of our islands.
mr president, i wanted to express my solidarity with all the victims of the gloria storm that has struck with extreme virulence the east coast of my nation, spain. unfortunately, there have been fatalities and considerable material losses, especially in the agricultural sector. last september, as other colleagues have already said, there was another storm called dana which caused further severe damage to our agriculture. unfortunately, farmers are still not receiving the aid they were promised. the new gloria storm has done nothing but greatly harm these citrus, vegetable, livestock farmers, who are absolutely desperate with this situation. i am grateful for the european commission's solidarity, but i would like to stress the need for a series of quick, forceful and effective responses from what i would call three instruments: the cap, the cohesion funds and the european union solidarity funds.
in writing. despite the deniers, the storm gloria passed through spain, with heavy rains and snowfall that left thousands of people isolated in my region, aragon. now, melting ice threatens many populations because of the flooding of rivers. nearly 4,000 km of roads and 142 municipalities in the provinces of teruel and zaragoza have been affected, leaving thousands of people without electricity, water, internet or coverage. there has also been damage to buildings and ships, and severe losses in the countryside and livestock. cooperation between the central and regional governments has been essential and, together with the security forces, the ume, the regional emergency services, town halls and neighbours are working to respond to the exceptional situation. this further highlights the need for the european institutions to work together with national, regional and local authorities for territorial and socioeconomic cohesion and to find solutions to the challenges of rural and mountain areas, which urgently need improved transport and telecommunications infrastructures. let us work together to mitigate the effects of climate change in the less-favoured areas.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the purpose of this petition is to address the failure of the spanish government to comply with decision 2017/2074 regarding the application of sanctions to members of the regime of nicolás maduro. on the morning of 19 and 20 january, the vice-president of the illegitimate venezuelan government, delcy rodríguez, illegally stayed for 14 hours on spanish soil, thus violating the sanctions regime which was promoted by this parliament and approved by the council of the union. the spanish government, after denying the facts, has given more than six different versions, the last of which acknowledged that one of its ministers met for about half an hour with maduro's number two. this violation of eu law also came days after this parliament recognised juan guaidó and urged the council to tighten sanctions against the maduro regime. we therefore ask this parliament to discuss this situation so that the commission and the council can be informed of the explanations received from the spanish government and can take a position on whether or not they consider them sufficient. because it is the member states who are responsible for enforcing the sanctions which the council sets and this parliament promotes, and if they do not do so they would be turning these sanctions into wet paper by losing all their effectiveness. because what good can sanctions do when any government can breach them with impunity and without any consequences? the international credibility of the european union and respect for the decisions of its - (the president interrupts the speaker) - are at stake and this parliament must debate them. madam president, i would ask for a roll-call vote.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for your presentation. i have no objection to the new methodology, in fact, i think it is good. i also agree with the majority in this house that we should give the green light to the accession process, to the opening of the accession process for albania and north macedonia, for the reasons that have been mentioned. but i also think it is important to take account - and this has not been said so far, either in the commissioner's presentation or in the debate - of the constitutional dimension of enlargement. we cannot continue to enlarge the union if we do not at the same time deepen our political union. this means, in particular, that we cannot continue to decide on important matters, such as foreign policy, by the rule of unanimity in the council. we should not do it with 27 and we should not do it with 29 or 30 or 35 states.
mr president, commissioner, small and mediumsized enterprises make up 99% of all european enterprises and generate 90 million jobs. so they are the backbone of our economy. and the commission has actually proposed a specific programme - the single market programme - which has only 1 000 million euro; it does not seem to be the right course to take in the face of, say, a strategic factor. smes must be a priority in community policy and i hope to see that priority in the european industrial strategy we are going to decide on in the coming months: with concrete, measurable and fundamentally ambitious objectives to provide us with the necessary tools to attack the green deal and to give muscle to the digital revolution. and finally, it is all very well to create jobs, but what we need is a strong financial framework that will give our smes oxygen to face the challenge that lies ahead in the coming years.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, it's a pleasure to see you here. well, at this point in the debate we all know that 99% of businesses in europe are small and mediumsized enterprises and that more than 90 million workers are employed in small and mediumsized enterprises. a lot has been said, and i will focus on two that i think have not yet been mentioned and that have a really important impact on the ability of smes to take advantage and optimise all the advantages that the development of digital technologies brings. on the one hand, there is the issue of digital infrastructures. the european code on 4g, fibre and 5g electronic communications is currently being transposed and implemented. networks are critical to the ability to leverage this digital transformation. the commission has the power to monitor whether implementation is adequate and it is essential that it does so. and secondly, something which the european union is permanently stuck in. to manage data, you need training; to have training, you need training; you need an ambitious european union action plan with clear, measurable objectives that push each of the member states to close the gap that exists in digital training and education. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. there are many initiatives. on the data, the commissioner we have at the moment has also an overwhelming experience and, moreover, in the previous debate he has spoken extensively on this subject. we will have a european strategy on data and then we will be able to discuss it. i have mentioned two because they seem essential to me. one is already under way, which is the european electronic communications code for the development of fibre and 5g networks. the other is absolutely essential: what can the european union do to make training, digital training, a reality and not be left behind in many cases? well, the answer is here. the answer, to begin with, has to be given by the european commission.
please be on time. as my associates inform me, we are 20 minutes behind schedule. i therefore propose that the commission should be consulted on the matter and that the council should be consulted on the matter.
mr president, in spain - as has already been said - small and mediumsized enterprises make up 99% of the business community. however, despite their importance, they still face the problem of disproportionate tax burdens, growing bureaucracy and difficulties in accessing finance, as well as additional costs, such as the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage by the new socialist communist government, which will amount to eur 2 000 per year for each employer. we want spanish workers to have higher wages, so that they can have access to decent housing and start a family, but not at the expense of smes, but so that the state takes on the reduction of social charges. more wages for the workers, but the same return for the employer. that's the common good. it should not be surprising that in spain seven out of ten companies die before the age of five. any initiative to improve the legislation will be welcomed, but let's be brave. better regulation means eliminating rules, not one by one, five by one, lowering taxes and social contributions, removing barriers and opening up safe avenues for financing. in short, no new strategies are needed. the usual: freedom and security.
in writing. smes are the engine of our economy, representing 99% of businesses in the eu, and their role is crucial when it comes to jobs and growth, innovation and competitiveness. the new proposal should create a favourable environment for the emergence of a european entrepreneurial ecosystem, facilitating the entry of new products and services into the market. the european green deal needs to take account of the specificities of smes by making them protagonists of the green transition. in addition, legislation needs to be more agile and better adapted to the changes brought about by digitalisation. on the other hand, we need to boost the relationship between research centres, universities and the private sector, and invest in digital skills, qualification and retraining to ensure that no one is left behind. it is also essential that it improves funding in europe, as today almost 45% of companies are leaving the eu because there is not enough funding to scale up and transform startups into large european unicorns. finally, we need a strong financial sector that is committed to european ideas. we cannot continue to lose ideas, enterprises and human capital. we are committed to innovation and entrepreneurship.
i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. and that is also why our group has considered today to raise the objection to projects of common interest, because we believe that in some cases they are not justified either economically or environmentally. one example is the bay of biscay interconnection project. a project of enormous economic cost that only guarantees the profit of the lobbies of the oligopoly, and that in no case will solve the energy problem of our country. i therefore ask you to take up this spirit, this common sense of the young people who are fighting in the streets, and to ensure that public money is allocated to projects that serve to develop our territories in a sustainable way.
mr president, commissioner simson, this whole debate can be avoided if the next list is really consulted and planned with this parliament. it is also sometimes striking to see how countries that do not meet their 2020 renewable targets want to give lessons to those who have, who are, and want to tell us how to do things in the future. the renewables columnists can't say that ditching coal is that simple and that we can't use gas. so we need to plan for that future. over 60 percent of our final consumption is fossil fuels, and that's what we need to change in the next generation. and we have to do it fairly, avoiding frustration in all directions. we need to move forward in renewable energy, electrification, smart grid development, sector coupling and, in addition, offshore wind connections. do we achieve any of those goals by rejecting the fourth list and going back to the third? my answer is no. we're not going to have more electricity projects, we're going to have fewer. we are not going to guarantee more smart grid projects, but less. it's not about guaranteeing fewer gas projects, it's about putting more pipelines. therefore, we do not convey misleading messages to the citizens. it is necessary to align with the european union's climate objectives, guaranteeing energy security to the member states and, in addition, working towards neutrality with ambition but also with rigor. decarbonizing our economy is a process that we all have to do together.
mr president, this is the legislature of the european green deal and also of the just ecological transition. there is political commitment, there is agreement, but, ladies and gentlemen, on this point i wanted to reflect in the house: there must also be resources. the speeches are very important, they are essential, but we have to reinforce them with resources. i would like to draw attention to a number of points. the sustainable investment plan will need more funds; the just transition fund will need more funds. and, in addition, both, greater clarity and precision in their functions and structures. the change in the production and economic model, for a truly sustainable change to take place, will require a tax reform. so, ladies and gentlemen, we now know the challenges and the objectives, but we need more resources, more funds, more precision, more clarity and, above all, a new environmental taxation.
mr president, the european parliament is the house of freedom and that is why i invited eight leaders of the cuban opposition last week to come to this house to explain the excesses that the dictator diaz-canel is practicing and executing, in short, in cuba. but the problem is, when you deal with dictatorships, dictators emerge. and so it came to pass that díaz-canel and his regime prevented the departure of five cuban opponents. they could not prevent three of those opponents, because they live outside cuba, because they live in exile, from being in this house, in the european parliament. but, despite this, a shameful situation occurred and that is that the regime infiltrated this house to a number of people to harass and to verbally attack the opponents. and the most shameful thing of all is that these people were able to enter this house as a result of the fact that the gue/ngl parliamentary group - those who are podemos in spain - allowed them to enter precisely to boycott, to break up our act. in short, mr diaz-canel should know, dictators should know, that as long as this kind of action against human and civil rights exists, this parliament - (the president withdrew the floor from the speaker) - will continue to be the arbiter of human and civil rights.
the examination on this point is concluded.
good morning, colleagues. i greet commission president von der leyen and the minister in the presidency. the agenda includes the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the proposed mandate for negotiations on a new partnership with the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland (2020/2557 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, following the entry into force of the withdrawal agreement and the actual withdrawal of the united kingdom, we are about to embark on the new phase of negotiations. in order to do so, we obviously need to give a mandate to the union negotiator. such a mandate should be put on sound foundations. i would like in this respect to set out a few considerations that should guide us when preparing this mandate. first of all, given the comprehensive mandate called for by the european council, the scope of the negotiations is very broad. we cannot therefore afford to delay their start. an early start calls for an early adoption of the mandate. we intend to do that at the general affairs council on 25 february. this time constraint is made all the more stringent by prime minister johnson’s decision not to extend the transition period beyond the end of 2020. given the broad scope of the mandate, this will require that several strands of negotiations have to proceed in parallel. this is a negotiating mandate, not the final outcome of the negotiations. therefore, it cannot spell out in full detail our expected landing zones, our final offers and the trade-offs we may have to contemplate. adequate negotiating space should be preserved. besides – and this goes back to my point about unity and time constraints – a very prescriptive mandate would require more time to resolve possibility, diverging interests and priorities. what we should focus on is the union’s interest in achieving an outcome that is fair and equitable for all member states and their citizens. last, we have to factor in the uk red lines. the uk government’s intention is to discontinue free movement, with an obvious impact on mobility and citizens’ rights, and also to diverge from the union’s regulatory framework with no less obvious consequences in terms of access to the single market and trade in general. on the substance of the mandate, regarding the various sectors that should be covered, i think that we largely share the view in the parliament’s position, as reflected in your draft resolution. this means a fair degree of ambition as compared to the union’s relationship with other countries. it should be clear, however, that this cannot amount to giving the uk the same benefit as a member state, especially in the light of its red lines. but let me focus briefly on more horizontal aspects of the partnership: governance and level playing field. there should be no doubt here. the eu might be prepared to offer an ambitious free trade agreement with significant market access, but this cannot be to the detriment of the competitive position of eu companies, social and health standards, or state aid rules. in other words, the partnership should include wide ranging provisions on a level playing field, based on high standards. this is all the more relevant given the uk’s stated intention to diverge from the european union. in my view, this is closely linked to the issue of effective dispute settlement enforcement and remedies. there is no point in developing wide ranging level playing field provisions if they cannot be enforced. i will make two important remarks before closing. first, although we are well aware that the line of the uk’s government is to put an end to the free movement of persons, we should see to it that the future relationship that we will start to negotiate shortly will be ambitious enough in terms of mobility. second, and this is a link to my previous remark, these negotiations will keep both our institutions and the commission busy for quite some time, but this should not make us forget about the withdrawal agreement. we should continue to monitor its thorough implementation. there is therefore once again a shared interest all along the coming negotiations in pursuing the good cooperation that we expected during the brexit phase.
president of the commission. – mr president, it’s just two weeks ago that we bid farewell to our british friends by singing ‘auld lang syne’, and i think it was a most emotional, a very powerful moment in this parliament: a moment to celebrate the good old times, and i thank you very much for the grace and the kindness of this gesture. this was extraordinary. since then, we’ve set our sights on the future of our relations with the united kingdom, and we will enter these negotiations with the highest ambition. because good old friends like the uk and us shouldn’t settle for less than this. prime minister johnson said in greenwich earlier this month that the united kingdom will, i quote, ‘be a global champion of free trade’. frankly, this is music to our ears, because at a moment when the rules-based trade system is so challenged, we need our partners to join us in making the system fairer and stronger. and this is what we europeans have always fought for over the years: a trade system that is open on one side and that is fair on the other side. because what do free trade agreements do? free trade agreements must replace uncertainty with a sound set of rules. they create new markets for small and medium enterprises. free trade agreements must benefit the people. and this is just the rationale that is behind our trade agreements, for instance with canada and japan. they are not just increasing our bilateral exchanges of goods, services, people and ideas. they do that too, but not only. they also raise standards on a broad range of issues, from labour rights to environmental. and this is what makes us proud of them: ask our japanese friends or ask our canadian friends. they are glad that we have joined forces to put fairness into our globalised economic system. they are glad that they could join forces with the european union, because frankly, in today’s world, size does matter – and we have a single market of 440 million people. what i just described – this is the ambition we have for our free trade agreement with the united kingdom. and when we agreed the political declaration with the united kingdom, we ambitioned zero tariffs and a zero-quota trade relation for all goods: something we have never ever before offered to anybody else. a new model of trade, a unique ambition in terms of access to the single market. but of course, this would require corresponding guarantees on fair competition and the protection of social, environmental and consumer standards. in short: this is plain and simply the level playing field. we are ready to discuss all different models of trade agreement. but all these models, whatever you choose, have one thing in common: they all come not only with rights, but also with obligations for both sides. for example, if we take the canada model – and this is a model prime minister johnson referred to – of course, our deal with canada eliminates tariffs on a wide set of goods, but not on all. and of course, our deal with canada eliminates most quotas, but certainly not all. for instance, there are still quotas on beef and sweetcorn. and of course, we still have our standards that have to be respected. and honestly, i was a little bit surprised to hear the prime minister of the united kingdom speak about the australian model. australia, without any doubt, is a strong and like-minded partner. but the european union does not have a trade agreement with australia. we are currently trading on wto terms. and if this is the british choice, well, we are fine with that, without any question. but in fact, we are just in the moment where we are agreeing with australia that we must end this situation, and we work on a trade deal with them. of course, the uk can decide to settle for less, but i personally believe that we should be way more ambitious. and the prime minister’s speech in greenwich is an encouraging starting point. he recalled everything the united kingdom has achieved in terms of social protection, climate action, competition rules, and i commend the uk for all of that. indeed, it is not the time to lower social protection or to be lukewarm on climate action. it is not the time to decrease in terms of competition rules. i have heard ambition in boris johnson’s speech: ambition on the minimum wage, ambition on parental payments, and he has an ally in me where that is concerned. i have heard ambition on cutting carbon emissions. ambition on guaranteeing that our firms are competing in full fairness. this is what we also want. let us formally agree on these objectives. we can trigger an upward dynamic competition that would benefit both the united kingdom and the european union. to our british friends i say: it’s in our mutual interest. and most importantly, it would be consistent with the values we share – values of openness, values of fairness, values of social justice and free enterprise. these are not only values for the good old times. these are values to stay. thank you very much for your attention. i just wanted to inform you that the task force is ready to start the negotiations. we’re all set. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on the draft mandate, which we are debating this morning, is the first proof of work of the newly created uk coordination group. as the chair, i would like to thank all members of our group, as well as the involved committees and the political groups, for their contributions in an extremely short period of time. in my opinion, the result is a very good and balanced resolution only nine days after michel barnier presented the commission’s draft mandate. our resolution contains parliament’s views on the content and on the architecture of a future eu-uk relationship. let me highlight three main principles of particular importance. firstly, the integrity and the correct functioning of our internal market, the customs union and the four freedoms must be maintained. secondly, a third country cannot have the same rights and benefits as a member state of the eu. and thirdly, a level playing field is an overall priority and precondition for any future agreement. we should not, and we will not, enter a race to the bottom. as ursula von der leyen has pointed out, together with our british friends, we should aim for a partnership that goes well beyond trade and is unprecedented in scope: everything from climate action to data protection, fisheries to energy, transport to space, financial services to security. we are indeed ready to design a new partnership with zero tariffs, zero quotas and zero dumping. however a free trade agreement with the uk will not be equivalent to frictionless trade. ladies and gentlemen, besides the negotiations on the future relations, the implementation of the withdrawal agreement is of particular importance. this concerns especially citizens’ rights, financial duties on the protocol on ireland-northern ireland. our chief negotiator michel barnier, whose work is highly appreciated across party lines in the institutions, has already assured us in the uk coordination group’s first meeting to keep parliament fully informed at all stages of the procedure. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, on behalf of the socialist group we would like to thank the european commission, and in particular mr barnier's team, for their efforts in drawing up the guidelines for the negotiation of the future framework for the relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. with the resolution which this parliament is about to adopt, we are sending a strong message together: the ambition of the future relationship will depend on the willingness of the british government to accept conformity with community rules on social, labour, taxation and the environment. on 1 february the united kingdom formally became a third country and lost all political rights. but in all other respects nothing will change until this transitional period is over. we have 11 months to negotiate a complex agreement that defines our future relationship. in building this new partnership we must assume that nothing will be as prosperous as the rights and benefits of membership of the european union. the socialist group is committed to reaching a comprehensive agreement with the united kingdom. however, the more barriers the british government raises, the more difficult it will be to achieve an ambitious agreement. on the contrary, if the united kingdom is willing to maintain a level playing field as a fair competitor, we will be in a position to offer a partnership which will ensure the prosperity of citizens on both sides of the channel. and to ensure this prosperity, we are prepared to offer an ambitious free trade agreement, with no tariffs or quotas, for all goods entering the common market and another for services. moreover, if we want this benefit to be real, we also need a strong partnership in judicial cooperation, security and defence, in support of the multilateral order, and in tackling issues such as fisheries, transport, energy and financial services. but our offer cannot be made at any price. let me be clear. the uk must ensure fair competition, allow european fleets access to its waters and maintain its commitment to the european court of human rights in respect of compliance with its judgments. we will also demand that spain has the final say in the discussions between the european union and the united kingdom concerning gibraltar, as has been confirmed in the commission's guidelines. our success in the negotiations will depend on our being able to make prevail what has been our best weapon so far: unity. only with the commission as the sole interlocutor with the united kingdom, and with the full involvement of this parliament for final approval, will the european union be able to preserve the level of unity achieved so far. together we have succeeded in protecting the integrity of the single market, the customs union and the four freedoms - including the free movement of citizens. let us not forget that our project is based on a commitment to values which are the exact opposite of those expressed by some british leaders, imbued with nationalism and a false idea of superiority. as we face the future relationship, we have an obligation to defend the democratic principles and fundamental freedoms that have allowed our european project to go forward.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two facts: the first is that the united kingdom and the european union are bound by geography. that's not likely to change, so we'd better keep our relationships as close and friendly as possible. secondly, not everyone in the uk is a british nationalist. the european union has many, many friends in the united kingdom. we don't alienate them. in trade matters, the ambitions of the european union and the united kingdom are antagonistic, since the united kingdom wants maximum access to the european market, but refuses the regulatory alignment that the european union requires. so i would urge all of us to be creative in this regard. let me explain: as a general rule, free trade agreements are used by business circles, i.e. capital holders, to force a bottom-up leveling of working and wage conditions, social, environmental or tax standards. we could use the opportunity of a free trade agreement with the united kingdom to do the exact opposite. today, the laws of the united kingdom and the european union are perfectly aligned in areas of european union competence, but not in all. in some areas - i am thinking of privacy, i am thinking of course of social standards - the european union has more ambitious standards than the uk. but there are other areas where the uk has higher standards than the eu for certain aspects of environmental policy, or for banking regulation. we could put a rule in the new agreement whereby the two partners would commit themselves to apply the one of the two standards which is the more ambitious and by the more ambitious i mean the more protective of health, privacy, working conditions and pay, the environment. this would be a form of upward emulation between the uk and the eu. you're gonna tell me that never happened. well, i think that this is the kind of free trade agreement that many of our fellow citizens want today, in other words, in places of the one we will soon vote with vietnam.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the eu and britain have entered a tense year. time is limited and pressure is mounting to agree on an fta this year. formally, the negotiation is aimed at agreeing to a legal set of rules, but there is more to it. there is a mindset that varies on both sides of the channel. every bureaucracy tends to cling to its own rules, awarding them holy status. in that respect the eu bureaucracy is not much different from the mandarins that once ruled the chinese empire. it regards itself as the centre of the world, and of all wisdom. the british mindset is different. having been an empire itself, britain derives cultural self-confidence from the idea that it is still is an empire. the old empire does not want to be run by a possibly new one, so it left. what are the lessons, mr president? the eu should not be bitter. brexit is done and we have to put our citizens first. the eu has to be pragmatic and purpose-driven rather than rules—obsessed; focussed on tangible mutual interests, not on bad feelings. the current british government is the most stable in western europe – a big majority for five years. who else can say that? but it should not overestimate the margins of divide and rule that worked for centuries – but not anymore. results will only be attainable through political will: the will to succeed. this – though wordy – resolution is the starting point to negotiate. mr barnier, you are an experienced negotiator. i hope you will be able to bridge both mindsets – divided by 30 kilometres of water, but still two worlds apart.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the negotiations on the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union are not just about how the future economic and trade relationship will be shaped - no, it is about much more: it is actually about the future of the european union and - do not misunderstand me, this is not the end game, and the next eleven months will not be the end game, but it can be a decisive game changer. the outcome of these negotiations will also determine whether membership of the european union or development outside the union is the more attractive development model. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is what brexit is teaching us. the mandate we are discussing here must therefore put the interests of the people of the european union and the people of the united kingdom at the centre of the negotiations. my group welcomes the clear statements on the prevention of tax dumping, the protection of workers' rights and labour standards, consumer protection and environmental protection. no one wants to see more tax dumping, no one wants to see worse working conditions, except for those who benefit from it, and those are not the workers, ladies and gentlemen. in short, we want the highest standards, the protection of peace in northern ireland and democratic control of the negotiation process. we are very critical of many other aspects of the mandate, for example military cooperation, the positive attitude towards nato and intelligence cooperation. we will engage constructively in the planning process in the interests of our constituents, knowing that a hard brexit is still possible and in no one's interest.
mr president, at the end of the transition period, the cost of brexit will have exceeded the cumulative contributions of the united kingdom to the budget since its accession 47 years ago. this fact only confirms the belief of all those who say that brexit is economically insane. the united kingdom is leaving the union, but it is still in europe and will undoubtedly remain one of the most dynamic economies on our doorstep. as rapporteur for the committee on international trade, i am clear that what we are offering the united kingdom goes beyond any free trade agreement that the european union has concluded to date. we offer a relationship free of tariffs and free of restrictive quotas. what is required in return is a level playing field, to avoid a race to the bottom in regulatory, fiscal, environmental and social matters. what we call in our jargon the level playing field must be worthy of the premier league, now and after the transition phase. to this end, we also need a referee who is up to the challenge. for this parliament, it is clear that when it comes to european law, the ultimate authority is the european court of justice. it is clear that a free trade agreement will never reproduce membership of the single market, but let us be clear: the level of ambition of this agreement will also depend on the tight timetable imposed by the uk counterpart.
madam president, we are here to discuss a very important resolution on the political guidelines for the negotiations between the european union and the uk – 21 pages, 103 paragraphs, but perhaps the most important is the front page, the signatures of the leaders of a number of major political groups in this parliament, showing that there is a vast majority supporting this resolution and how united we are in defending our common vision and our common interests. we call on the member states to do the same, to refuse any bilateral negotiations at this stage, and to act as a bloc, with the commission and mr barnier being the sole negotiators on our part. we are clear about what we want to achieve – a sound and ambitious strategic, political and economic relationship – but we also say, loud and clear, that we will ensure open, but also fair, competition, a proper level playing field and no regression on the high european standards of environmental, social and labour protection, and also consumer rights and food safety. we’ve heard some messages of refusal of this by the uk government, but this will have proportional consequences in terms of the access of the uk to the european market, undermining the ambition of our trade agreement. let me conclude by recalling that the first pillar of the future economic relationship with the uk was already agreed in the withdrawal agreement. it has to do with northern ireland, the alignment of northern ireland and border controls in the irish sea. so we will work for a new agreement for the future, but we will also ensure full implementation of the commitments in the existing withdrawal agreement.
i have to say, madam president, it is sad in every way that such a large and close country has chosen to withdraw. it's sad for them, it's sad for us. on the other hand, it is good and strong that the resolution we are discussing here today is so comprehensive and that it has been drawn up by such a large majority in the european parliament as is the case. it sends a very important political signal that we in the european parliament will ensure a level playing field in the future cooperation. why? because we cannot compete on lower standards in the field of the environment, the climate, consumer protection. we cannot do that if we are to compete on lower tax rates, and we cannot do that if britain is to expect full and free access to the eu's single market without at the same time complying with the rules and requirements that may apply here. we must not gamble with the eu's single market. it's a crown jewel in the collection, and we have to look after it. in the short term we have a very particular challenge in fisheries: many jobs are at stake, many people's livelihoods are at stake. it is important to say in this context that the negotiations on the future of fisheries cannot and should not be seen in isolation from the negotiations on trade in general. so it will all be difficult negotiations against a very sad and dramatic background, but the ambition must be that we create a strong partnership for the benefit of all.
madam president, yes, we must of course have a special relationship with the united kingdom. our similar standard of living and our common civilization invite us to it. but that does not mean that we should give in to him. mr barnier, a few days ago you proposed, and i quote, 'the elimination of all customs duties and quotas on goods traded with the continent'. clearly, this would be a free trade agreement and philippe lamberts, a few moments ago, made the same proposal. you are making free trade agreements with the whole world - as you did with vietnam recently - but you cannot stand the fact that the uk is no longer part of the customs union. it is now a third country and we must take account of that. the risk is that tomorrow it will become a gateway for products from all over the world that do not meet our standards and are of poor quality. the priority is to protect our interests, for example those of french fishermen who make 30% of their turnover in british waters. seventy per cent of the uk's fisheries exports are to the european union; we have a huge leverage in future negotiations, so that they are favorable to us. i know you don't like the trump method, but it works in economics. we should be inspired by it. our market, our consumers and our fishermen are entitled to the protections that you systematically deny them. brexit is an opportunity to change the model and to set up a new one.
madam president, i have to be honest: it’s a very special moment i think, because it’s the first time that we discuss brexit here in this house without having our uk colleagues being here, and i must say that apart from a bunch that was sitting over there, i really truly miss them, and i think it shows again how sad it is that this brexit is happening. now, i had the great pleasure and the honour to do my erasmus year in the beautiful city of edinburgh. still, when i go there today, i really feel at home, and i think these are really the ties that we have to cherish also for the future. and the economic and trade relationships are going to be absolutely crucial in the future. but if we want to build strong foundations, we also have to look at other issues, and that is why i think we have to fight to keep the united kingdom in the erasmus programme. young people did not vote for brexit, and i think it would be wrong to take away the opportunities from them that i and many millions of europeans had in the past after brexit. and that is why, if we want to build a strong relationship for the future, we should fight for a strong erasmus programme with the uk in it. let us leave a light on and build bridges so that the brits can find their way back home.
madam president! the draft resolution contains many pertinent statements and i think the ecr group can support it. but what worries me more is the spirit that can animate, or even reverse, negotiations. the latest exchange of views between brussels and london is not very optimistic. it is clear that a third country cannot have the same rights and benefits as a member of the union, an efta member or an eea member, but the uk will not be one of many third countries. even outside the union, it remains a large european country linked to other european countries by history, economy and security cooperation. it should be recalled that in the darkest moments of european history between 1939 and 1945, it was britain, like poland, that heroically defended european values. it is in the interests of europeans on both sides of the channel that we have the best possible relationship with each other. our negotiators should not forget that.
madam president, the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union gives us a window of opportunity to learn from past mistakes and not to make them again. the speeches of hatred, disaffection or uncertainty weigh on those who understand that the european project should be a space of progress and solidarity and feel disappointed. we can't delve into failed models that are driving citizens out. we now have a responsibility to guarantee the rights of the people, of the citizens living in the united kingdom - almost 140 000 spaniards are currently residing there. we are concerned about the situation of the workers, the 15,000 people who cross the gibraltar border every day, whose situation is still uncertain. we must fight social and fiscal dumping with determination. we do not agree with much of the content of this mandate in the field of foreign and defence policy. we believe that we must move towards a much more anticipatory approach to conflict and not go into sanctions that are paid for by the people alone. from this parliamentary group we will continue to work to protect the rights of citizens, the rights of the environment and those of the primary sector agriculture, livestock to avoid the depopulation of our villages. we must prevent them from becoming the currency of other interests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are voting on aims to strengthen the unity of the 27 countries and to give strong support to michel barnier in order to protect our interests during the negotiations. first of all, it is important to protect the internal market. the united kingdom cannot re-enter it like a trojan horse without respecting rules and standards. all this to ensure that more and more citizens and businesses are covered. the health of europeans must be guaranteed by preventing the entry of agri-food products which do not meet our standards or which compete unfairly. we are italians and we want to eat parmigiano and not parmesan and i think all europeans would rather eat parmigiano and not parmesan. citizens' rights must be protected, for example, by ensuring the use of paper documents and not just online. and then our committees in parliament will have to be committed to protecting the key areas, such as fisheries, space, energy, and then the interests of peace in ireland and the spanish interests in gibraltar, and of course defence and the fight against terrorism. in conclusion, we must prevent the united kingdom from becoming a european singapore, which may not have strict anti-money laundering rules. all this in order to have increasingly positive relations with london, which has left the european union but remains europe.
i have to say, madam president, the resolution shows that we are ready to negotiate. and i think we can also manage to organise trade deals within nine months, because the situation is a little different now. usually we have two different partners who are kind of moving towards each other, and you agree on common standards or you recognize standards. now that we have a harmonized system, we have to decide how far we can go apart. in this respect, it is a bit more comfortable than other trade negotiations. that is why the three pillars of normal trade negotiations must be taken into account. the question of customs clearance is the common objective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second is the standards of products and services. we have a clear set of rules on consumer protection and health protection. the sps standards will not be attacked in any way. so i think it'll be easy to get along there, too. and the third pillar is the most complicated. of course, rules affecting trade must also be discussed to avoid distortions of competition. so the question of equal rights for workers, the question of equal environmental standards, the question of the same aid scheme - very important - and the question of a harmonised tax rate. otherwise we would have distortions of competition, and that cannot happen. if there is any distortion of competition, then we will of course have to introduce tariffs to compensate for that. it is absolutely absurd to think that there is a dumping island across the channel with full free market access.
madam president, i would like to thank mr barnier for his work and his words. as the eu and the united kingdom embark on this new relationship, which i hope is a fruitful one, i want to send a very clear message to the united kingdom. this parliament will not allow the united kingdom to become a tax haven or a money laundromat just offshore europe. i want to remind you about paragraph 21 of the resolution. it says, ‘we strongly believe that the uk should adhere to the evolving standards on taxation and anti—money laundering legislation within the eu acquis, including tax transparency, the exchange of information on tax matters and anti—tax avoidance measures’. this applies to the territories as well. i would remind you that british overseas territories include bermuda, the cayman islands, gibraltar, the virgin islands: crown dependencies include all of those islands that have no taxes on deposits, etc. mr barnier, this is an existential question for europe. if we allow tax avoidance and money laundering just offshore europe, our way of life is in danger and our welfare state is in danger. this has to be one of the highest, if not the highest, priority for our negotiations.
i have to say, madam president, we are all aware that there are many very important aspects of our relationship with the united kingdom that need to be regulated now. this is our task - in the interests of our citizens, in the economic, social, environmental and cultural dimensions. that is why it is less about a free trade agreement and more about fair and inclusive trade relations. i think it is a worrying idea to try to arrange everything in a single de facto association agreement, as was the case with ttip. questions of cooperation between armed forces, energy and network cooperation, police cooperation and airspace regulation must not be removed from parliamentary control and handed over to committees set up under the agreement. i appeal to the council: create transparency, maintain democratic standards! i very much welcome the commission's approach to enshrining the un sustainable development goals, giving a lot of weight to the paris agreement, the ilo and fundamental rights, including data protection. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
madam president, when someone is organising a brexit it is to leave, not to stay otherwise. the united kingdom cannot have more advantages from outside than from inside. we spent three years mourning their passing. now we can't be confused by nostalgia because they're gone. they are now a third country. we deal with them hard - as we do with any third country - and defend our own. we are in favour of the decolonisation of gibraltar; we are in favour of preventing it from becoming a tax haven, of preventing it from remaining a tax haven. we defend our fishermen, who every day have to risk their lives to earn a living. we defend our farmers. we stand up for our products. if they, if the british politicians have wanted to be a third country, let us treat them as what they are in the negotiation, a third country. the united kingdom has left europe. we cannot allow it to become the new south east asia on our doorstep.
the european parliament must clearly set out its priorities on the future relationship with the united kingdom. is it possible to reach an agreement by the end of this year? what deal? it should be stressed that no country outside the union can enjoy the same rights as a member. the negotiations are based on four fundamental freedoms, and the welfare and rights of eu citizens in the uk and vice versa must remain in focus. in the context of foreign affairs and defence, i hope that the united kingdom, as a permanent member of the nato security council, will continue to share our goals and values. the same applies to joint civil-military missions, sanctions compliance, the iran deal and the arms control and non-proliferation agreements. i hope that as the european union, we will also maintain the unity that was successfully achieved in the withdrawal negotiations during these negotiations. thank you again to our british colleagues for their many years of work and their great contribution to european standards that have improved the quality of life for our citizens.
madam president, mr barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the circus of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the community club is over and we must get down to work. we must start negotiating trade and economic agreements that guarantee the rights of our citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us negotiate strongly, but let us negotiate no less strongly than we have to negotiate with other countries outside europe with which we also conclude trade agreements. in this sense, i believe that it is the right time to take the fight to end the process of decolonisation of gibraltar, preventing this british colony on spanish national territory from continuing to parasitize the spanish economy with unfair tax practices. under the umbrella of the european union, gibraltar has consolidated itself as a base for laundering money from criminal activities. we therefore call on the commission to lay the foundations for this process of decolonization. we know that this is the responsibility of the spanish government, but we must ask loyal members like this club to cooperate and to respect the dignity of our nation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, honourable colleagues, distinguished commissioner, the negotiations between the european union and vietnam started in 2012. they were first concluded in 2015, subsequently reopened and then finalised in june 2019. these eight years has witnessed dramatic progress in vietnamese society, economy, labour conditions, environmental protection and sustainability. one of the crucial ferments of these changes is the european union. the perspective of enhancing eu—vietnam cooperation by implementing the free trade agreement and the investment protection agreement gives positive motivation to the vietnamese authorities. just recently we have received a work plan on domestic advisory groups, a work plan and implementation plan on the labour code and a positive answer to the establishment of a joint parliamentary oversight committee between the national assembly of vietnam and the european parliament. this house faces tomorrow a crucial choice: to grant or not to grant consent to the eu—vietnam agreements. postponement would be the 20th century choice. when we give homework to vietnam and then send them home to do the work. granting consent is the 21st century european choice, when we formulate our expectations and then we say to our vietnamese partners: ‘let’s do it together’. as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, my appeal is to vote for consent tomorrow and then to work together – the eu and vietnam – for a better, freer and more sustainable future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. fifty years ago, willy brandt developed the concept of 'change through rapprochement' to enable countries with fundamentally different views to enter into dialogue and discuss ways of improving the situation for the people on the ground. this is exactly the right way to try to improve the situation of the people on the ground through dialogue, also in relation to vietnam - especially with vietnam, a country with which we have a lot of trade. i am sure that many of you, my dear colleagues, wear clothes from vietnam, wear shoes from vietnam, all samsung smartphones come from vietnam, all samsung tablets come from vietnam. and i want us to set up rules here so that production is in order, as far as standards are concerned, as far as the use of chemicals is concerned and, above all, as far as workers' rights are concerned. and, commissioner, with all due respect, these achievements have been made by the european parliament. we have been negotiating intensively for the last two years. and i am proud of this parliament for having used the opportunities that we have by getting the fundamental ilo core labour standards ratified and implemented, for having got a binding implementation plan, monitored by the ilo, put on the table by vietnam, for having got the domestic advisory groups of civil society organisations to be staffed by independent civil society organisations, for having got the space for civil society to be expanded, for having got a real improvement in the human rights situation as well, for having got the european parliament's subcommittee on human rights integrated into the human rights dialogue for the first time - this has never happened before - and for having got parliament's cooperation and implementation of the agreement through parliament. so in that respect we can be really proud as a parliament that we have achieved this. but i also say that the work must start now, because we will continue to fight for the agreement to improve the situation of the people on the ground. so let's get to work!
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, before we make any commercial assessment, we must remember that vietnam is a politically repressive state where the communist party has a monopoly on power and there is no independent media. no dissent is tolerated, criticism of the government is punished by long prison sentences, there are no free trade unions, religious services are controlled by the state. many of the commitments given by the vietnamese authorities are formulated without precise deadlines. it is an unforgivable naivety to settle for overly general statements of intent. the environmental costs of the eu's efforts are clearly in contrast to the sacrifices it imposes on its member countries: in vietnam, coal is the main source of electricity generation, with a coal contribution to the energy mix of over 40% and the completion of around 100 coal-fired power plants by 2030. the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the opportunity to negotiate a new agreement with the united states on the basis of the gatt agreement. this is an indication of the commission's lack of sensitivity to an important and sensitive area such as risk. the question of the protection of intellectual property, which is currently being handled in vietnam by a flimsy and ineffective system, is dangerously in doubt. this could cause damage to our companies. we must not forget these considerations when we vote, lest we betray the values which our europe has always proclaimed and which it should also defend instead of thinking only of economic returns.
after eight years of negotiations and debate, we are almost there. so let me say a few words as the former rapporteur of these treaties from the beginning until last autumn. first of all, i would like to emphasise that this agreement was properly negotiated by the european commission in accordance with the principles of eu trade policy and the mandate given by the european council. i think the eu needs to send a signal that it is for free trade, that it is for the removal of trade barriers in a time of rising protectionism and in a time when the united states has withdrawn from an already negotiated trade agreement with the countries of south east asia. we have a unique opportunity to fill this void. no other deal with any other southeast asian country is on the way, not in sight, at this point. i think vietnam is growing into a geopolitical power, it's a country of over 90 million people. it is the chair country of asean, it is a non-permanent member of the un security council and it is in the political and economic interest of the eu to have this agreement. if we don't close it, the eu won't win, the united states or china will win, but we certainly won't profit from it.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, then, should we deepen our partnership with vietnam? yes, we all agree. does it necessarily have to be a free trade agreement? well, no, and that's where the debate comes in between us. you think - it's a bit of magic thinking - that a free trade agreement will solve all the problems. no, that's not true. firstly, i do not share the commission's optimism that it is a win-win agreement. no, you can't! today, the union's trade deficit with vietnam is 30 billion. in the commission's impact study, we are told that in 10 years' time it will be 40 billion. and who's gonna pay for it? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. so, to make vietnam a kind of great workshop of the world, the risk is still relocations. we are told that vietnamese workers will benefit because they will adopt the ilo standards, but we have examples! look at south korea: we were promised things that were never fulfilled. so i think you are either very naive or very hypocritical, a hypocritical human rights, because frankly, we cannot say today that the vietnamese government has met our expectations. in fact, the opposite is true: in the latest ranking of press freedom, vietnam ranks 176th out of 180 countries in the world. but above all, i would like to remind the commission of this incredible double-speak: we vote on the climate emergency, we vote on the european green deal and at the same time we pass, business as usual, a free trade agreement which is clearly climate-destroying and which does not protect sustainable development. frankly, it gives the impression of a european union which always prefers trade to the fundamental values which should normally guide us all in this house.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, three years ago, when parliament voted my resolution on the trade strategy for the european union, it was calling loudly for agreements with high-growth countries. and he was heard! vietnam is the new asian tiger: with a gdp growing by 7% a year, it is a country that is becoming more prosperous rapidly and therefore increasing its demand for high value-added goods, the very goods that we produce here in europe. the agreement will bring almost all customs duties on these and other products to zero. some of these duties, such as those on wine and cheese, for example, now reach up to 50%, not to mention those on cars up to 80%. the agreement will also protect 169 pdos, docs and pgi, of which 38%, or 22%, are italian. so, if i think of my country for example, the exchange is only increasing. our exports increased by 12% last year, pushing up our import-export to 3.7 billion and making vietnam our number one trading partner as far as asean countries are concerned. that's a number that will get even better with the deal. the demand for italian products is very high: over 300 million euros for our fashion exports, over 65 for food and almost half a billion for machinery. the agreement is undoubtedly a good deal from a strictly commercial point of view and therefore deserves our vote in favour, but there is a problem. the human rights situation in vietnam does not appear to be making progress and some reforms to improve the situation are still being approved. i am personally convinced, as are other members, that the agreement will bring prosperity, will help to change the situation in the future and that is why, if there is a vote tomorrow, we will approve it. but i would ask you to postpone the vote. i would ask that time be allowed to our vietnamese friends to complete the democratic reforms we have asked of them, and to show us a little more good will. i would also like vietnam to release political prisoners and prisoners of conscience and to ratify the fundamental conventions on workers' rights. vietnam is a friendly country. there is no doubt that the agreement will come into force sooner or later, but it is precisely from the friends that we must ask more.
madam president, the us government claims that the rule of the strongest would be the guiding principle of the business models of the 21st century. tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, we will have the historic chance to prove them wrong, showing the world that our commitment to fair and clear rules-based trade, regardless of the size of the partner, remains the golden rule. yes, vietnam is a developing country and obviously the process of economic, environmental and above all social modernisation is far from complete. but ratification of this agreement does not, as president bernd lange rightly pointed out, mean that the talks have come to an end, that we have turned a blind eye to the human rights situation in vietnam, and that we have given the vietnamese government a blank cheque. moreover, our president sassoli is meeting with the deputy foreign minister, bùi thanh son, here today in the european parliament. forty-five years after the end of the vietnam war and thirty years after the opening of our diplomatic relations, the approval which i support and which is only waiting to be given will enable us to intensify the dialogue with our vietnamese counterparts, this time with the help of real levers and credible platforms. the joint committee which this parliament has demanded and obtained will enable us to press for socioeconomic change and the improvement of the lives of all vietnamese.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt about the benefits which this agreement will bring both to the european economy and to the italian economy, to italian exports, and certainly also to that country in terms of a leap forward in their development. we are well aware of this and consider it an important factor. however, we cannot hide. the situation is still very critical in that country. it is critical of human rights in general, trade union rights, political freedoms and prisoners. i keep stressing this, and i am surprised that the commission has not paid attention to it. may i have your attention, please? i am addressing the commission! we shall write , to ask that there be something consistent, also with regard to development cooperation. i would like to stress the issue of forced child labour and women's work in unacceptable conditions. it's not just vietnam. it is the global value chain that leads some countries to be subcontractors at the very bottom. we have to rebel against this. i do not know, then, but progress has certainly been made, and i say this with pride on behalf of those in my group who have negotiated and achieved a great many things. but perhaps we still have to ask for more for the work of people, women and children. so we're gonna have to monitor this deal very closely. the seriousness of the commission and particularly of those involved in international cooperation will be at stake here.
madam president, we just heard it this morning. overall, the trade agreement with vietnam benefits several sectors in the european union and, in the agri-food sector, meat or wine or cheese may be several of them. it is regrettable, however, that the european commission has once again failed to protect one of its sensitive sectors, rice. vietnam has the lowest rice prices in all of southeast asia and competes directly with varieties produced in spain and italy. spanish rice growers are outraged by this new concession and its impact on prices in a sector already in crisis. the fact that we are running short of rice does not mean that the opening of frontiers will not cause irreparable damage to european production. i cannot understand why, after applying the safeguard clause at the beginning of 2019 with myanmar and cambodia, the european union continues to make the same mistakes and does not assess the impact that these imports will cause on the european market and on a sensitive product such as rice. the european rice sector plays a key role both in the economy and in the conservation of geographical areas of high environmental value. we demand that the european union authorities carry out studies of this impact and take the necessary steps to implement new and more effective safeguard clauses.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as always, this agreement between the eu and vietnam is full of contradictions. the issue of human rights being repeatedly violated, some significant opportunities for our businesses and a broad protection for our appellations of origin. yet there remains a major unresolved problem in a crucial sector such as rice. italian rice production, the largest in the european union, and european rice production have been under attack for years now because of the eba agreement with cambodia and myanmar. the safeguard clause was applied late and badly and it has recently been announced that rice will not be covered by the blockade of trade facilitation with cambodia. in this context it is clear that the introduction of further large quantities of vietnamese rice at very low prices is likely to bring an already established sector to its knees. our delegation does not therefore intend to be complicit in this draft and will not support this agreement until italian and european rice is safeguarded.
i have to say, madam president, at a time when free trade and cooperation are under pressure from old friends, it is more important than ever that the eu continues to open up markets. we are now the guarantors of fair and sustainable and rules-based trade. that is why we should also approve this agreement, which is the most comprehensive trade agreement ever between the eu and a developing country. vietnam has committed itself to all eight ilo core conventions, six of which have already been ratified. a country under communist rule has now recognized the right to collective bargaining and is moving toward freedom of assembly. 95 million more people today have the right to organize and to fight together. it's a big step that would never have happened if we hadn't reached out. the vietnam deal is far from perfect. but politics is not about perfectionism. it is about concrete progress for concrete people, and we will achieve that by keeping vietnam close.
madam president, commissioner hogan, our rapporteur, mr bourgeois, and others have outlined many of the benefits of this free trade agreement, both for vietnam and for the european union, because free trade agreements are, after all, about a win-win for both sides. as a standing rapporteur for the asean region and a former rapporteur for the epp for singapore, i welcome our free trade agreement with vietnam. this is the first really comprehensive agreement we will be doing with a developing country, and that’s very important. because it’s one thing to do it with a developed economy, and it’s another thing – so it’s a very positive message – to be doing agreements with developing countries like vietnam. to those who oppose it, i would say to them: will any of the issues that you have be improved by opposing this agreement? the answer is no. as has been pointed out, there were already huge improvements even during negotiations that will continue when we develop the agreement.
madam president, commissioner hogan, the free trade agreement with vietnam is an important signal both outside and within europe. the european union is once again proving that it is the world's great trading power; it is proving that, despite the attempts of the populists to lift tariff barriers and return to protectionism, europe is still the greatest defender of free trade. it is also important within europe; it is important for the thousands of companies which see in the disappearance of the 65% of tariffs a great business opportunity, a new market which opens up when others close. for spain, this will be of particular benefit to sectors such as meat, which is becoming more and more present in asia, and to the olive oil, wine and spirits sectors, which are recognised for many of their geographical indications and designations of origin. for those who do not benefit, we will be vigilant to ensure that this agreement is not signed at the expense of anyone and that all spaniards and europeans benefit from it. i therefore call for support for this agreement.
madam president, ignorance should not be an excuse to justify demagogic arguments. frankly, trade exists with vietnam. it's just that some people feel like they have to be told the obvious. trade exists: 43 billion in imports; 13 billion in exports. it's just that it really exists. so, do we want that trade to be regulated by rules and regulations? i'm not sure. will this agreement benefit and promote compliance with those standards, compliance with the sustainable development goals, human rights, environmental conditions? does it improve them or not? it makes them better. it's better to have an agreement than no agreement. i don't know if some people want to change the world through statements, through extremist positions, environmental savonarolas, but they still win votes, but they will not contribute to improving the quality of life of any citizen anywhere in the world. this is an agreement that can try to achieve that, that defines a framework and creates obligations. and it will be our responsibility to try to make it properly executed, and that's where we have to be vigilant. but what we will not do is from extremist statements that only aim to reinforce and win votes instead of trying to advance human rights, social rights, the sustainable development goals and environmental respect.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr dombrovskis and to welcome madame lagarde. it is really great to have her here. first of all, i would like to thank mr costas mavrides for his excellent work on the report. as you see in the report, madame lagarde, we are worried about the incompleteness of our banking union. i’m glad to hear mr dombrovskis say that the commission’s work programme is going to push in this direction. we share very much the views that you expressed about what the priorities are, madame lagarde. we think that the ‘doom loop’ is alive and well. we think that it is still the case that, if we have a big bank fail, there will only really be states behind that bank and that our construction will not be sufficient. because we have done a banking union that was supposed to consist of three pillars. the first pillar, which is supervision, is in place. the second pillar, which is resolution, is kind of in place, but not really in office – ‘in office but not in power’ i guess is a better way to put it. it is not really acting to resolve most situations and most banks which are failing. the third pillar, as madame lagarde has pointed out, the deposit insurance, is not yet there. we believe that we need a banking union that cuts this knot between the banks and the states. we think that we need this principle of bail—in, rather than bail-out, to be enforced. and that means that the commission has a lot of work to do. we will support that work and will really encourage you. we realise that it is politically difficult. i think the parliament is ready to come behind a solution and i ask madame lagarde for your support. and mr dombrovskis for your work on this, thank you very much.
mr president, i would like to welcome ms lagarde. a fresh wind is blowing through the ecb. no public spats, but a constructive dialogue: how can we prop up eurozone growth? how can the ecb stop funding polluting activities? how can we promote gender equality among ecb decision-makers? and of course, every new job starts with credit, and the trick is: don’t waste it. that is why, ms lagarde, i call upon you to make real progress now that you can. the ecb needs to get in gear to implement the eu taxonomy and avoid activities that do ‘significant harm’. besides, you should encourage governments to invest substantially in sustainability, reaping the benefits of the low interest rate and pushing that rate upwards, and in that way restore the full potential of monetary policy. continue confidently along this path, ms lagarde, and i have no doubt that the male central bankers will dance to your tune.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr mavridis and all those who have worked with him for his very good report and to wish mrs lagarde very important speeches - even more important than those of mr draghi - in her speech. i would like to add two questions to a barrage of questions, of course. the first concerns the greek banking system. we know that since 2018 his condition has improved, but i would like to know if he can summarize two things, namely, in which direction we should move and how fast. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clear that to go green we need additional investment and, as draghi said in 2018 and more generally, we need to improve the composition of public spending to make it more qualitative and, if possible, investment-friendly. so i would like to have a comment from mrs lagarde.
mr president, as has been acknowledged here, the prolonged unconventional monetary policy measures have not been sufficient on their own to arrest the sharp economic slowdown, and they tend to exhaust their scope. we don't know when the next peak of the crisis will come, but we do know that it will find the economies of the eurozone's periphery as unprotected as they were a decade ago. with high debt, itself a consequence of the single currency, and the scope of unconventional measures exhausted, all their vulnerability will be exposed, more exposed, the vulnerability of these countries, trapped in the euro trap, a trap that imposes policies, particularly in the budgetary field, that stops growth, crushes investment and wages, degrades the productive apparatus and public services. the same people who say that we need a fiscal policy which is favourable to growth are doing everything they can to impose stubborn compliance with a revised and strengthened stability pact. this is the euro trap. they say it needs to be deepened. what is needed, however, is to dismantle it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the road to a more solid economic and monetary union is full of unresolved questions. these are issues that require the efforts of all to solve them. after some tentative progress during the crisis, the pace of reforms has slowed down. some projects, although among the least controversial, have been implemented, but a fundamental proposal to complete the banking union, such as the european universal deposit insurance system, is still struggling to move forward. given the continued vulnerability of the euro area and the completion of the edis, a key element in securing savers with a strengthening of risk mitigation measures, remain a necessity for the union. moving forward with edis could reduce financial fragmentation, allowing a greater role for private capital in cushioning economic and financial shocks. but i want to say it again: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we cannot try to reduce risk by putting a weight on government bonds, for example. that would be absurd. we will leave a european financial system that is more fragile and subject to the influence of quotas. we must act now, the price to pay would be terrible to remain motionless.
mr president, first of all, it is good to see madame lagarde here. i congratulate her on her appointment. and, indeed, herself and her predecessor mr draghi are to be congratulated on keeping the euro afloat and keeping the european economy in a stable position. having said that, i want to ask one question in particular. we have had an election in ireland and one of the big issues there was in relation to housing. mr kelleher referred to the interest rates, but not only the interest rates, but also the rules of borrowing. we have a situation now where people who are well educated, with very good jobs, cannot afford to buy a house. there are other issues in relation to the supply of housing, but even where the supply is available, this is causing a huge concern for them. and many people are now living with their parents because, while having been well educated, as i said, good jobs, well paid, they cannot afford to buy a house because of the rules implemented by our banks. can she offer some leeway in that regard and some hope to those people that what was the norm in the past can apply in the future – you have a good job, you can buy a house?
mr president, mrs lagarde, vice-president dombrovskis, i would first of all like to express my support for the report drawn up by mr costas mavrides of the socialist group. i think it's very complete and contains the essential elements. perhaps an additional element, along the lines also mentioned by the socialist group's spokesman on the subject, mr fernández, is the consideration of new instruments. i think it is obvious that, with only the ultra-low rates and the purchasing programme, it will be difficult to achieve the objective. it is true that fiscal support is needed, but the european central bank's inflation target is unconditional; it must be pursued, it must fulfil its mandate, unconditionally. perhaps this instrument, in your view, could be a direct transfer to eurozone households to boost consumption and thus reach the target of close to but below 2%.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this debate has demonstrated that there is a large convergence of views on most aspects of the report and i’m very pleased to see the common ground emerging from the views of the three institutions. let me conclude by mentioning the point directly concerning the commission. your last report encouraged the commission and the ecb to study schemes such as a central bank digital currency and digital base money and to liaise closely. like many central banks and institutions, the commission and the ecb are now analysing the potential benefits and challenges associated with these schemes. further work is needed, but these examples show that the three institutions – and this includes the european parliament – can fruitfully interact in respect of their respective roles. so we count on your continued support in building the foundations for sustainable growth in europe.
i would now like to ask the president of the european central bank, mrs lagarde, and at the same time thank her for the kind reception she gave to the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs in france yesterday and for the very frank and constructive debate.
president of the european central bank. – mr president, i didn’t know that you had to be standing to address this assembly, so i offer my apologies for not having done so in the first place and therefore i will align with the rule that you seem to have amongst you. i would like to first of all thank you very much for this dialogue that we had. it’s very much part of what we at the european central bank, and more broadly within the euro system, want to actually have with public opinions, with civil society representatives, but more importantly, with those who represent the citizens of europe: that is you, members of parliament, who have been elected by them. this is very much part of the accountability that we have towards you and, through you, to the citizens of europe. we have conducted a few changes in the last few months, but certainly one of those that i very much look forward to implementing as we go into the strategy review that has been approved last month, is the constant dialogue that we need to have, and what we have called the outreach with you and, through you, with the citizens of europe. so thank you for that. i thought i would just touch on some items of our strategy review to address some of the points that you have made. first of all, some of you have touched on the monetary policy and the current components of the instruments that we use in order to implement our policy and have been doing so since 2014. to those who argue that this monetary policy, and particularly its unconventional tools, have been counterproductive, i would very strongly encourage them to look at the impact that those unconventional tools have had on the economy – in which way it has actually increased growth and helped our economies around europe and the euro area in particular to fare better than it would have had it not been for those instruments that were used as part of the unconventional policy. it’s obviously very difficult to quantify carefully and precisely by how much growth has been lifted in the euro area, but our models actually indicate that that growth has been probably higher by a margin of about 2.5% to 3% ever since those policies were put in place. in the same vein, it has contributed to inflation which, as you know, ever since the euro was put in place and ever since the strategy was revisited in 2003, is measured with reference to inflation, and clearly those unconventional tools that have been used since 2014 have helped inflation go up a bit. well, certainly we would have liked it a lot more than that, and maybe this would have been the case if other tools had been used in conjunction with our monetary policy. but be it as it was, certainly inflation has increased by a factor of about half a percentage point probably, which is certainly not bad, given the level where we are. to those who were mentioning, by the way, that inflation was hovering around 1%, i would simply remind you that in january inflation was at about 1.3%, which is certainly not the goal that we have, but certainly a bit more than the 1% that was mentioned. those unconventional tools that were used and the instruments that were deployed helped our economies and continue to help our economies. when you look at the volume and the number of new financing that are put in place for the real economy, whether it’s the corporate or whether it’s the households, we are seeing clearly financing that is very low in terms of cost, and i take the point that you made, sir, about the irish banks and how much they charge and what interest rates they include, and we’ll look into that for sure. but the cost of financing has been low and lower for the real economy. and number two, the volume of financing of the economy has increased and has continued to increase. you will have seen some comments recently about the fact that this continuum is slowing down. yes, it is a little bit – for the corporate, not for the households – but it is continuing to grow nonetheless. so i would contend that, in the main, it has had a very positive effect on our economies, and as part of our strategy review, we’ll look at how much and how effective it has been. but we will also look, as some of you have mentioned, to the potential side effects and to the accumulated side effects that it could have on citizens and on the economies as well. so that will be very much part and parcel of our review. the second point that i would like to emphasise briefly, and i’ve focused on the monetary policy tools and how we will look at them and measure them and measure the benefits as well as the negative effect, is climate change. nobody can ask the european central bank to substitute what governments should do and what policies should be in general. as former managing director of the imf, i think i’d be remiss not to remind all of us that one of the key tools in relation to climate change is clearly the proper pricing of carbon, and this is not something that a european central bank or any central bank in the world can actually decide. so as we go through our strategy review, we will determine where and how the issue of climate change and the fight against climate change can actually have an impact on our policies, whether it’s in relation to our price stability primary objective and how it impacts this primary objective, or whether it’s in relation to the management of risk that we are accountable to our european citizens and to you when we look at the composition of our portfolios and the one that we manage, and whether or not risks are actually properly priced and whether the climate change risks associated with some of the collateral that we have in our portfolios, for instance, are measured or not. so in that respect, climate change will be one of the items that we will take into account, together with the more traditional aspects that we will be measuring, and it’s in the context of that strategy review, mr vice-president, that we will continue this dialogue, not only with you, but also with the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ). the president of econ was here and many members of the committee are present in this room. we will continue to engage: we will have that dialogue, and we want that very much to be a two-way street. now, i offer our apologies to those who had very specific questions on particular countries, but i propose to take that up bilaterally with those who are interested in specific countries or banks going forward.
i can only wish you, personally and in the interests of the european union and the global interest, all the best in your work.
rapporteur. – mr president, i too will be brief. i’d like to note two points. madame lagarde, today you have seen that in the european parliament we can have different views. and a thing about the past, about mr draghi. mr draghi might not have been perfect, but his legacy was that he was determined to save the eurozone, and in fact i would say that maybe he has also saved the european project. some people cannot forgive him for that. as far as today is concerned, though, you rightly said in your initial statement that we basically share the same view about challenges, and i would add that even mr dombrovskis and to some extent the commission shares that same view. that’s why i would add to that, though, that certain elements, just like what you noted before, are missing. i think that the major challenge for all of us is to deliver – to deliver to the european citizens and to improve their lives in certain specific ways – completion of the banking union, completion of the capital markets union, and much more. therefore it is up to you, madame lagarde, and we are going to support you in striving towards a real convergence of the economies. thank you for being here today with us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 february 2020.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the council and the commission on the violation of council decision (cfsp) 2017/2074 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in venezuela illegal entry into the territory of an eu member state of a person included in the sanctions list (2020/2564 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the current subject of debate concerns an alleged breach of european union sanctions currently in force vis-à-vis venezuela. these were put in place in 2017 as part of the european union’s efforts to foster a credible and meaningful process that can lead to a peaceful, negotiated solution for the reinstatement of democracy and the rule of law in venezuela. these measures include a travel ban and asset freeze regarding 25 individuals, among them the vice-president of venezuela, delcy eloína rodríguez gómez, included on this list having been designated by the european union on 25 june 2018. a travel ban requires the european union member states to take the necessary measures to prevent the entry into, or transit through, their territories by the listed persons. as you know, there is a division of competences in the area of sanctions within the european union. first of all, member states are responsible in all cases for the implementation and verification of sanctions adopted by the european union in their own jurisdictions. member states, i repeat, are responsible in all cases for the implementation and verification of sanctions adopted by the european union. therefore, when the issue of a possible violation of sanctions arises, for example an assets freeze or, as here, a travel ban, it is for the member states concerned to investigate and determine whether this has in fact been the case. with regard to the wider oversight of the implementation of sanctions, the commission has an overall monitoring role concerning the uniform application of such measures in an area with these competences. for example, this is the case for asset freeze and sectoral measures, but it is not the case for travel bans or arms embargoes. we can discuss the political appropriateness for member states to give this competence to the european union, although this would require a treaty change. but the situation, for the time being, is clear. the commission cannot initiate any infringement procedure regarding a possible travel ban violation. travel bans are, in practice, only contained in council decisions and they do not therefore fall under union law. consequently, the commission does not play a role in monitoring the implementation and cannot initiate an infringement procedure. as high representative, talking here from the side of the council, i am also responsible for ensuring the consistent application of the common foreign and security policy, including sanctions adopted by member states in council. in this context, the european external action service, in consultation with the european union, where competent, would be directly in touch with the european union member states regarding alleged violations in order to ensure that these sanctions are being applied in a homogenous way in all member states.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, venezuela and venezuelan politics have come to spain at the hands of iglesias and monedero. these are not my words, but those of pedro sánchez, the current president of the government of spain. he said it in 2016, and now we know that for him it was not a criticism, but a compliment. today, iglesias is the vice president of his government and chavista politics tarnish the image of his government. the sanchez government is the one that has opened the doors of europe to chavismo, because a socialist minister, josé luis ábalos, met with the vice-president of the dictator maduro, delcy rodríguez, on spanish territory, on european soil, violating the sanctions regime that the european union imposes on a totalitarian regime, which tramples on human rights. the sanchez government has not only failed to comply. the sanchez government is lying. any new version of the encounter makes the previous one a lie. it has lost all credibility and it is the european institutions which must investigate the truth. venezuelans are a sister nation to the spanish. for the millions of venezuelans trampled underfoot by the despot maduro, for the millions of venezuelans who have fled their country, we need to know the truth and that the sanctions regime is fulfilled. we spaniards and the rest of europe, this parliament, have always raised our voices in defence of venezuela's freedom. we therefore call on the council of the european union to investigate what happened, to help clarify the truth and to ensure that a scandal that is a disgrace to europe is never repeated. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. mr president, i would like to ask mrs montserrat whether she thinks it is appropriate to use the european parliament as an instrument to attack the spanish government, even though this house has no competence in what you are saying. if the answer is yes, then perhaps some political groups will be tempted to take up other matters of national interest, which many citizens want to know about, such as the fact that for the first time two prime ministers, aznar and rajoy, have been called to speak.
the answer is 'blue card'. as usual, smoke and mirrors. the campaign against spain is what you are doing, opening the doors of europe to chavismo. you know, you've violated the sanctions regime. you lied, explain why. you have lost all credibility and you want all spaniards to lose all credibility behind you. we therefore ask you to be the ones to turn away from populism and chavism and to really defend europe, today, here.
the answer is 'blue card'. mr president, briefly - i think i have already said this - the spanish socialist government is consistent. what we want is to find a solution with all venezuelans. the difference is that we seek dialogue and not confrontation and division. solutions can only be found - because the people of venezuela are suffering - if we unite with the venezuelans and do not divide them, and that is why the government of spain is doing everything possible to seek a solution - as i have said - negotiated, agreed, democratic, and that allows ... (the president withdraws the word from the speaker).
i thank you very much, mr moreno sánchez. mr wallace: i call you to order on the use of the term 'dirty bastard'.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, it's going to be tricky to fly over the socialist mud, but i'm going to try. i, mr borrell, would have liked you to have intervened as a high representative and not as a former foreign minister in mr sánchez's government. and i'll tell you why. well, because this isn't a national debate. this is a debate about the legitimacy, the credibility of european foreign policy and respect for this house. i don't know how you respect this house by bringing this rag in here. i'm really sorry about that. i'm really sorry. because respect for this house means respect for what it stands for. and this house, for example, has asked to redouble efforts, to redouble sanctions against the regime of nicolás maduro - with your vote, i want to remind you. so when a member state decides to violate the resolutions of this house, it is failing to respect the legitimacy of this house and of all its institutions. how can others trust the european union when the member states themselves do not respect the decisions taken by this house and its institutions? we must remember that these resolutions bind us all, including the member states, the council and, excuse me, the commission. because the commission has a role to play in ensuring that infringements are punished. it is clear that the spanish government has failed to tell the truth, it is clear that it has failed to comply with the decision taken by this house. what is clear is that the commission has done nothing. and it is very simple. has the government notified the council of the exception to mr maduro's government? no, he didn't. is that document available to the public? no, he's not here. and you are not concerned about that.
thank you, colleague. you no longer have the floor, mr cañas. i would point out that it is my constant practice not to give a 'blue card' to colleagues whose speaking time i have withheld because they have spoken too long.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, there is no european case, because the application of sanctions and the council decision is a national competence. the fact is that a debate has been brought here which should be taking place in the congress of deputies. and i want to apologize to all the honourable members for having occupied part of the european parliament's debate with a debate which we are basically holding among nine spaniards, and i think that is quite unfortunate. i must also say, very honestly, that i think that by doing this kind of thing we are degrading the image of the spanish delegation in this house, and i think we should not be doing this kind of exercise - i really do and i say this with all sincerity. and then i would like to send a message to the renew and european people's party members who are not here today - the vast majority, some of them are - and i have great respect for those who are here - and who decided to vote on monday to hold this debate. what are we gonna do from now on? every time there is a national policy debate in a member state, are we going to bring it here? what are we going to make of this chamber? i ask for a little respect and responsibility for the very serious and important work we have to do here, in this house.
i thank you very much, mr urtasun. i want to explain this again because there were questions. it is my constant practice not to reward a speaker who has been deprived of the floor for exceeding his speaking time by giving him a question. and i will not allow you, mr cañas, to have your 'blue card' now.
on behalf of the ecr group. the fact is that we - parliament, the commission, the council - are constantly interfering everywhere, and it turns out that we are interfering in response to the violation of a decision by the european union to impose sanctions on a number of criminals who rule in that communist and drug trafficking mafia in venezuela. it is hardly possible that we can do anything about it, when we are interfering with the education of the hungarians, we are interfering with the justice of the poles, and so on and so forth. and on the other hand, for god's sake, let's not say this is a spanish debate. this is a debate on respect for the rules of the european union, which have been grossly violated by a socialist-communist government that we have had in spain for a month and which has already made a clandestine appointment with a criminal regime on spanish territory, who knows for what, who knows on what conditions and who knows for what obscure reasons.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, look, it is absolutely grotesque and irresponsible the use that is made, again and again, of the people of venezuela. it only leaves you with the evidence that you care very little about venezuelans and venezuelan women. venezuela is a divided country. what it needs is responsibility; it needs us to end the sanctions that the people are suffering, to support dialogue, negotiation and that elections can be held with guarantees. we saw mr tertsch send a message to the whole of the european parliament saying that in spain there was a great deal of anxiety about who the minister of our country was meeting. - you did? - you did? anxiety, you know? anxiety, mr tertsch, is generated by the power to give a future to our young people; anxiety is generated by farmers who are not receiving fair prices; anxiety is generated by the power cuts in grenada by multinationals such as endesa which ignore fundamental rights. but i don't see you defending the rights of spaniards against these elites. you criminalize dialogue, you encourage armed rebellion. and i'll tell you one thing. our country, spain, is much better than the black and white you want to paint it with. our country has a future and it's going to be carried forward by our people.
mr president, the truth is that this is not a debate on spain or venezuela. it is necessary to act on the value of our sanctions and our principles. there are intrinsic values in the formation of this union, such as the functioning of a country that respects its rule of law, transparency, legality. we have recently learned how the government of spain has flouted the implementation of the sanctions approved by the council in june 2018. these are measures that prohibit the entry of the vice-president of the maduro regime into european territory, sanctions that punish for violating democracy, for usurping the powers of the national assembly. we ask the council to investigate this matter thoroughly through the sanctions section of the foreign affairs advisers group el relex and to report to this house in due course. certainly, no one should be above the law. neither the states nor their rulers.
mr president, this is not a european debate, this is a debate that must be discerned in the spanish congress. you're making a fool of yourselves, and no matter how much you put it all together, you are who you are. they are a minority who cannot build a majority in the spanish parliament. i also apologise to the other members for having to endure a debate that should have taken place in the spanish congress. it is because its political force has only ten members; its political force is going to disappear, because all the statistics, all the polls, say precisely that it is insignificant. so, mr cañas, renew party members, citizens' groups, bring to this parliament constructive solutions to alleviate the pain of the venezuelan people. i invite you to come to the development committee and together we will seek solutions to alleviate the pain with humanitarian aid and development for the venezuelan people. ladies and gentlemen, there is no case here, because the vice-president of venezuela was not in schengen territory. so, he didn't cross any passport filters. do you think this contributes anything to alleviate the pain of the venezuelan people? the spanish government, led by pedro sánchez, will continue to seek a democratic solution.
the question of the 'blue card'. mrs charanzová, i wanted to ask the honourable member, who deeply regrets that this has become a spanish debate, what he was hoping for. if, in the end, of course, this is a matter of national policy, it will be dealt with, moreover, in the spanish congress, which has a debate scheduled for the next few days. in the end, this is simply the impossibility of a group which has not yet found its political space and which somehow wants to know what it has to do and what the responsibilities of each of the parliaments are.
mr president, i do not know about you, but i have the feeling that this debate is the tantrum of a child whose toy has broken. only in this way can it be understood that the parliamentary group which lost the most representation in the general elections in my country is determined to keep open a debate which even the european commission itself understands to be closed. the truth is that it is sad to see that, while our government is making an effort to make working families prosper - raising the interprofessional minimum wage, strengthening public services, fighting against gambling - you are engaged, here and elsewhere, in the same thing, in gossip, fanatical veto and making pineapple with your friends from the extreme right. i would ask you to do us a favor and spare us all this embarrassment, now and in the future, and i would suggest a little more responsibility and a little more work for the interests of our people.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr. president, the trump-netanyahu tandem, in an unprecedented display of cynicism, has presented what they have called the great deal of the century. but it is not legitimate to talk of agreement when one of the parties concerned, the palestinian people, has neither been consulted nor signed any kind of pact. this parody is not legal, because it violates international law and countless un resolutions. so if this is not a deal, it's not legal, it's not legitimate, it can't be called the "great deal of the century". we could call it the "great swindle of the century", which aims to wipe out the palestinian people and, moreover, cover up the shame of two criminals persecuted in their respective countries. we could talk about it and it would be more appropriate. mr borrell recently made a statement which i think is excellent, and i would like to congratulate him and thank him for it. but i think it's time, mr. borrell, to get down to business. it is necessary that he speaks, but it is necessary that at a time like this the european union should break the association agreement with israel and recognize the state of israel.
mr president, mr high representative, this is josep borrell. i support the statement you have issued. i think it is also important in procedural terms to overcome the blockages that often occur in the council by only one or two countries. and on the subject, which is president trump's peace proposal, i will not repeat what you have said and what most of the speakers have said about the problems it presents and that it is therefore impracticable. but some speakers have also referred to the need for a european alternative. if not a detailed proposal like the one mr trump has put forward, perhaps some sort of procedural initiative in the sense of a new middle east peace conference - like the one that once took place in madrid in 1991 - and, if it is not possible at this time, start working to create the conditions for it to take place.
madam president, thank you to the high representative for his approach to the syrian issue. i will not repeat: the attacks on civilians in northwestern syria, the deaths, the atrocities. many members have said that in this house. we condemn this, of course, and insist on the need to guarantee access for humanitarian aid, but it is true that we seem to be in a situation where we cannot intervene in a more practical and effective way. in the case of libya, the european union has been successful in declaring an arms embargo, and the high representative urged that we europeans should be the ones to monitor that embargo at sea. it is clear that the syrian regime has weapons and ammunition. the question we should perhaps try to answer is whether we can promote an arms embargo on the regime of bashar al-assad.
the question of the 'blue card'. mr puigdemont, with all due respect, how come you come to the house to lecture us on the rule of law and the rule of law. you were the first, as president of the government of catalonia, to disregard the rule of law when you unilaterally declared independence, overriding the statute of autonomy and the spanish constitution. he repeatedly ignored judgments of the constitutional court. does not all that you have done seem inconsistent with the statement you have just made in the house?
madam president, commissioner, minister, the european union's budget must be a solid one, reflecting our ability to support the necessary developments in each of the member states, but also to respond to new challenges. moreover, i think he should not just be doing a math exercise, but continue the projects that we need. cohesion policy the cohesion policy on which the european parliament has already expressed its views ‒ must not be reduced or relocated in any way as a result of the emergence of new initiatives, such as the just transition fund, which of course must have all the necessary resources so that this transition is just. and if we refer to the transport sector, the main financing instrument, the connecting europe facility, the european parliament has also expressed its position on this and it should not be reduced, because the budget is all about our credibility in the face of challenges, in the face of the european citizens.
madam president, europe is facing an existential crisis at the moment. we see populist parties growing in every election - we just saw it in ireland with sinn féin. we see that, in the case of economic growth, all the data we have had this week are bad: the european economies are coming to a standstill. we see that we do not have the banking union finished. we see that, indeed, with the uk's departure we are losing a key member for europe. and in the midst of this existential crisis, we find ourselves with a budget that we fear may be the lowest in history in relation to gdp. we have so many challenges and we're not going to have the resources to deal with them. part of the problem is this ongoing debate between net contributors and recipients, which ultimately doesn't allow us to move forward. we need a system of own resources. a system of own resources that helps us solve the problems we face: climate change and tax evasion. this parliament will not approve a mff agreement which fails to address these problems while solving for good the problem of financing europe, which cannot depend on these negotiations which always leave us short of our needs.
madam president, the european project will not be stronger with a weaker european union. the commission and the council have therefore not been happy with the proposals for the multiannual financial framework. to reduce the cap, to reduce the cohesion funds or the european social fund is to drive those who need it most away from the union. spanish farmers and livestock farmers are suffering from the growing demands - also of the european green pact - and on the one hand they are being asked to be more competitive, but on the other hand the aim is to reduce the funding they need, such as the cap. or, for example, young people, who are the most affected in spain, with an unemployment rate of 30%. on the one hand, they are told that they are the future of europe, but on the other hand they want to reduce the european social fund, which is devoted to the employment of these young people. and, given the digital challenge, depopulation, the need to promote industry, smes and the connectivity of our regions, it is inconsistent to pretend to leave our regions with less funds for their development and for their cohesion. the member states have a key role to play. we therefore call on the spanish delegation of the european people's party to urge the sanchez government not to stand idly by, to ensure that the battles that are not fought are lost, and we are all too used to the socialist governments returning to spain empty-handed. the cuts in the structural funds, the cohesion funds and the agricultural funds would hit spain particularly hard and therefore the ppe will be firm, as always, in defending the interests of spain's productive and economic sectors. let's have the battle.
president, if you read the papers, you'll soon forget, but once every seven years the eu has a huge opportunity. the tremendous opportunity to find answers to the challenges of our time. the opportunity to make agriculture greener, to build european rail links or to take our science to the forefront of the world. however, the newspapers do not report on this enormous opportunity, but on the size of the eu budget. mr. rutte, mark rutte, this call is for you. first of all: do not give companies free subscriptions in the internal market. let's not let the citizens pay, let's let the big corporations pay. a quarter of a million for the biggest companies is a quick five billion. secondly: don't focus on one decimal point, zero, zero percent. i'd rather have a little more than 1% of our income spent well. don't look at the percentages, but choose the odds.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to call for more sincerity and seriousness in the budget debate, because our future is at stake. that is why the european parliament is launching an information campaign, because the vast majority of citizens believe that the majority of the money goes primarily to administration, even though 94% of the total budget is spent in our regions, in the municipalities: on our universities, on the countryside, on our companies, on the development of the future. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of research and technology. they fail to mention that the added value of membership is many times greater than the membership fee. there are no net contributors because member states talk about percentages instead of tasks, projects, content and value. i think it is irresponsible that ursula von der leyen's programme is not getting the money it needs. i conclude: what are the main differences? in education, in research, in investing in the green deal, in rural development, in security, in own resources and social cohesion. untie the chains, commissioner and fellow council members! if we put a future bond on with the citizens and provide a european crowdfunding model and own funds, then we can close the gap.
madam president, our position here in parliament has been extremely clear, in fact, unequivocally clear. we cannot accept a reduced financial framework, where the cuts that are being made are in policies which are crucial to the economic and social development of our countries. i do not accept, we do not accept, cuts which are highly punitive for our country, for portugal. we are faced with a set of proposals which clearly affect both cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. these are crucial sectors for the development of our countries. and there are two things i would like to make clear here which are of great concern to members from three member states: portugal, spain and france, which have their own outermost regions and which may see the development of these regions cut off here. we are talking about fisheries, economic issues, issues linked to tourism and which we can call into question in the face of what is presented to us. we want a union which looks after the people, the regions and which does not allow these cuts.
madam president, almost two years ago we were discussing the european union budget for the first time in the council of the european union, when i was romania's minister for european affairs. today, almost two years after that, we have no solution, no clear solution, no appropriate proposal, although two years have passed, and perhaps it is time to think about the future of the european union, because if we want to build a future, we need an appropriate budget and a greater contribution from the member states to all that this european project entails. there are no old priorities or new priorities, as was wrongly said earlier. there are simply european citizens' priorities to which we must respond. we need a budget focused on the development of the european union and that means also money for cohesion and money for agriculture and money for research and money for the environment. all of these things can be done if we are willing to make decisions today. that is why european leaders at the european council must adopt a solution. there are solutions on the table, there are ideas on the table, they have to adopt them, take responsibility in supporting this european project further. i think that the european citizens expect us to come up with a proper budget for the years ahead.
madam president, this debate in plenary has brought out three major coincidences, apart from ideological differences. we are all aware of the added difficulty and complexity of budget negotiations in a post-brexit context, and that is why we are committed to a swift agreement, which provides legal certainty for the main sectors of our economy. and we demand, beyond figures and percentages, a budget which reflects the new priorities of the european union. the green deal is going to be the legislative protagonist for the next five years. but that pact and all the measures that will follow from it, such as the farm-to-table strategy, will only win the support of european citizens if, instead of cutting budgets and asking for more environmental contributions, we are able to offer farmers the support they need, not only to pursue more ambitious environmental objectives, but also to develop a profitable economic activity. we must address the neglect of our rural areas and the fatigue and frustration of our farmers through a budget that does not marginalise the challenges of the rural world and its remarkable contribution to sustainability.
madam president, 47% of today's jobs will probably disappear in the next 25 years, and 85% of the jobs of the year 2030 have not yet been invented. those are data may move by some percentage, but that's a reality. the digital economy offers opportunities, but it also presents serious risks that we're already experiencing, including the digital divide, a divide that is age-based, that is geographic, that is gender-based, that is social. and in the face of this growing inequality, what can we do? more social europe, that is to say more education, more training, more protection. that means we have to take a holistic approach to the problem. we have moved closer with the green deal to a willingness to transform our economic model. what if we were to bet on a social deal, on a new social contract that is able to link these changes and avoid collateral damage to people, to millions of european citizens who will not be able, without help and without concrete measures, to embrace this transition, this change, and may be left behind. that risk is a certain risk. we have to do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen.
madam president, europe must prepare for the digital revolution without leaving behind, as has been said, 'any person or any territory, rural or peripheral'. digitalisation must benefit all people, contribute to reducing inequalities, improve public services and create quality jobs. we know that many jobs will be destroyed, but also that many new ones will be created, especially those linked to artificial intelligence, for example, for which 58 million jobs are expected to be created. but it is precisely in these digital sectors that women are lacking. only 22% of those employed in these sectors - you said it, commissioner, there is a very large gender gap - only 22% are women. we need to invest in comprehensive training and a digital culture that supports the development of appropriate skills and competences, but we cannot do without any talent at all. talent is equally distributed but opportunities are not, and we have to work precisely to make those opportunities reach absolutely everyone, including women.
madam president, digitalisation and the implementation of artificial intelligence represent a huge, huge opportunity; we could almost say that this represents a huge evolutionary leap, unparalleled since the industrial revolution. but it's also clear that it brings risks, it brings change, and it's also clear that it brings a lot of fears that have to do with control, that have to do with job loss, and there's only one way to confront those fears and highlight the enormous opportunity, and so seize it, which is digital literacy. the literacy. which is much more than just giving digital capabilities, which is much more than just giving digital tools. it means a humanistic approach to the question to also democratize the implementation of things like artificial intelligence so that people, not just experts, are aware of what those risks are, those contradictions, those values that are opposed, and so make better decisions and somehow be more and more a society that goes hand in hand and in a more integrated way towards the future. so what i ask of the commission and the council is that they make an effort to do this, in a participatory, open process, in which they can highlight and unravel this mystery to transform it into something understandable and that can be shared by everyone.
madam president, commissioner, we are very pleased that there is a strategy, that a gender equality strategy is being put forward in this legislature, and that some concrete measures are being taken, such as pay transparency. but i am particularly pleased that you speak of gender mainstreaming in relation to the european green deal or artificial intelligence. because, until now, there has been no real incorporation of the gender perspective into european policies. there has been a policy of employability, even though women and men enter the labour market very unequally. so unless there is a genuine integration of the gender perspective into european policies, we will hardly make any progress, especially if we do not succeed in economic policy, where it shines and continues to shine because of its absence. sometimes it's just a cherry on top of the cake, but it doesn't really matter. chief dalli, let's make it really matter. here in the european parliament there is a gender mainstreaming network with representatives in all, absolutely all, committees, who will be very keen to work with you and make it possible for us to really move forward in a much more equal europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, the gue/ngl group will not be represented either. ladies and gentlemen of the council, we are presenting a motion for a resolution in which we make a number of recommendations which we consider to be of priority for women in the european union. but the truth is, until now, they haven't been seen as very excited about gender perspective and feminism. the council is the body in which the most important initiatives for women have been held up. for example, we have an anti-discrimination directive which has been blocked in the council for ten years. are you guys thinking of doing something? eige recently told us that we were moving towards equality in a tortoise-like and clearly uneven way. it also turns out that the european union has not ratified the istanbul convention thanks to the boycott of a number of states in the council - the visegrad axis and its circle of influence and collusion - and thanks to the same religious lobbies that have supported anti-election campaigns in all parts of the world. both sides are intent on treating women as incubators and reproductive machines, slaves to their partners or their governments. they have succeeded in ensuring that there is no legislation on sexual and reproductive rights in the union, although this parliament has recognised that the denial of sexual and reproductive health services and related rights is a form of violence against women, in line, by the way, with the european court of human rights. they are the ones who want to eliminate equality education in schools, and the ones who criminalize the lgbtq community. let us not forget that poland, bulgaria, hungary and slovakia are today leading a brutal resistance against the so-called gender ideology. the european union has also not adopted a directive on gender-based violence, because for some states and political groups in this house such violence does not even exist. only a few months ago this parliament recognised that we are witnessing a visible and organised attack on gender equality and women's rights at a global and european level. the council will have to choose. i hope you choose well.
mr president, commissioner, minister, we are living in a time when many rights that we took for granted are now being called into question again. a wave of reactionary movements, often tinged with xenophobic and misogynistic colors, is trying to stop any progress towards a more just and equal society, and this particularly affects us, the women. the 64th session of the united nations commission on the status of women is a great opportunity for europe to abandon the fight for women's rights at international level and demand a firm commitment to the beijing platform for action. today, many of the goals set by this platform remain just that. europe must be a useful tool for the world to help stop the global backsliding on women's rights and in this respect more and better can be done. the ratification of the istanbul convention or the adoption of the quota directive in the administrative councils are still stalled in the councils. we ask for courage, determination and speed, and let's make the goals finally achievable.
mr president, commissioner, the beijing declaration, 25 years later, is still the benchmark for measuring gender equality. but let's face it, in many un states it's not enforced. the union's priorities for this 64th session of the united nations commission on the status of women are a good opportunity to defend the sexual and reproductive rights of women, and in particular of women living in latin america, from the european union's foreign policy. inequality in latin america is driven by women. beyond inequality in economic conditions alone, in particular with basic rights such as life, physical integrity, sexual freedom and reproductive health. latin america and the caribbean support the highest rates of clandestine abortions and of deaths from clandestine abortions. six states do not allow it under any circumstances and 21 only do so if there is a risk to the life of the pregnant woman. the european union must continue to support organisations which advocate safe, free and free abortion. the green handkerchiefs of argentina is an international mobilization. the call for education to decide, contraception to not abort and abortion... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, every year thousands of false documents are detected at the external borders of the european union. in 2018, according to frontex, 7 000 foreigners were detected presenting false travel documents at the external border crossing points of the union. various methods of counterfeiting are used as a genuine multi-purpose tool in the commission of crimes money laundering, terrorism and as a key to illegal entry into the territory of the european union. this fact highlights the great importance that the protection of our borders and immigration control have for the security of our nationals. the regulation, the fado system, will, by drawing on the experience of frontex, promote a rapid and efficient exchange of information, without prejudice to the member states being able to develop better systems for the detection, prevention and prosecution of crime. in this case, our group, concerned about this investigation and prosecution of crimes and about the rigorous control of the legal or illegal entry of foreigners into our territory, will vote in favour, and we encourage the rest of the house to do so.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, it should be remembered that during the years of fascism in europe thousands of people were forced to use forged documents to escape the horror. it is worth remembering our history, even in technical - apparently technical - debates of this kind, to understand the scope of our measures. the proposal for a network of authentic and forged documents, in the context of fortress europe, condemns thousands of refugees to use these forged documents. it even contradicts the geneva convention in some respects, which recognizes that those forced to flee can use false documents. that is why, in the face of those who are determined to armor europe's fortress and turn it into an agency for mass deportation, we will continue to defend human rights, to defend legal and safe ways of access, to defend humanitarian visas at the point of origin and to defend the recognition of the figure of climate refugees.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i hear you are criticizing croatia. you have no reason to criticize croatia, greece or bulgaria, because we, our countries, protect you from terrorists, from islamists, from jihadists. because we stop those who come to blow up european cities, and every country has to protect its borders, and it is a sovereign country, and none of you can ask sovereign countries to let terrorists into their territory. but i'll tell you why what you're doing is hypocrisy, gross hypocrisy. because none of you -- those who claim to care so much -- have set a personal example. raise your hand if any of you have ever taken in an afghan terrorist or a jihadist, raise your hand. is there one? in your living room, in your bedroom, living with your children. wait, is there one? no, you won't! then please don't be hypocritical and double-faced.
madam president, a europe with open borders is an absolute nonsense which only the utopia of a very irresponsible left is defending in this parliament. there is not a single country in the world where the borders are open. where anyone can enter depending on their own will. the european union obviously does not have to be different. we must respect those who want to improve their living conditions and we have an obligation to welcome people with humanity, but for this to be possible with such scarce resources, there must be very strict controls on entry at the external borders of the european union. and we have to distinguish what has to be distinguished: one thing is refugees, another is migrants. refugees are subject to different treaties and laws than migrants are subject to different laws, different realities. anyone who is considered a refugee and who flees to save his life must be accepted in accordance with laws or treaties, but anyone who is merely seeking work, who is a migrant, must enter or not, depending on the laws and will of each country, with respect for the principle of subsidiarity. each country knows which migrants it needs. the uncontrolled entry of migrants into europe is unacceptable, it endangers the safety of people, our labour, social and democratic systems. and the acceptance of the real refugees, that yes, must, of course, happen. (the president agreed to answer a blue card question in accordance with rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that doesn't happen in any country in the world and they have human rights. countries have the right to regulate migration flows, they have human rights and, as human beings, they must also respect the laws of the countries. if you are a genuine refugee, someone who wants to escape death, who wants to protect his family, treaties apply, they must obviously be welcomed. but that's why hotspots are so important. that is why we have to check very carefully at the external borders who wants to enter, because the rest is utopia, beautiful words, but they do not solve any problem and they put the sustainability of this common project at risk. and i would like the european union to last for many, many years.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm concerned about the people who have already been admitted. we have a humanitarian emergency here, and i am referring in particular to the situation on the greek islands. we need to act decisively. the united nations is demanding this from the eu and from greece. and it is a shame for us all when the united nations has to ask us to act decisively. the situation has worsened dramatically in the last 12 months, and i am talking about the need to look at the situation of children in particular. one third of those admitted to greece are children under the age of 12. here is the hygiene situation, here is the disease situation in camps that are totally overcrowded, catastrophic. we urgently need a joint conference of the european commission, the governments of greece and croatia, as the council presidency, and the united nations to humanize the situation on the greek islands in particular.
madam president, please. this is a very important topic. there is, however, one aspect that has not been discussed before and that has been consistently avoided by the representatives of the left. and this is how the citizens of bosnia, serbia and the islands of greece have been dealing with the fact that for years, masses of migrants have been moving through their communities, overrunning public spaces, parks, occupying empty houses, that after dark, local residents barely dare to go out into the streets. i myself come from vojvodina, in northern serbia, so i know exactly how hopeless the situation is. in 2015, the pressure was so great that some communities were left unable to function. the pressure is now building again on the western balkans route, and public security is deteriorating in the border towns. the eu should provide increased assistance to the western balkan transit countries in addition to greece. these are not rich countries, their resources are limited, and the local population feels that everyone is only concerned with the rights of migrants and they are forgotten. let's represent the interests of the europeans in this debate. thank you, sir.
mr president, what the eu is facing at its borders is a truly extraordinary situation. the humanitarian situation of refugees in some hotspots is truly catastrophic. i've been to the hotspot of moria myself, and i know how those people live, and yet they don't want to go home. most of them have nowhere to go, especially syrian refugees. millions of people have moved, whether from syria, africa, pakistan, afghanistan, and this is not a normal situation that we were prepared for. we have to say that today, in 2020, the eu is better prepared, and that's why i agree with what my colleagues from croatia are saying here, that the croatian government and the croatian border forces are doing what they have to do. they simply have to protect the eu's external border. of course, let's be human about this. here, i think the main group most at risk are children. unaccompanied children, children with mothers, and they should be the first to be helped.
madam president, thank you very much for allowing us all to speak in this very important debate. i think it has become clear from this sitting that this is a matter of defending fundamental rights at the frontiers of europe. and we have raised it because they are being violated, not just on the border between croatia and bosnia-herzegovina, of course. we are clearly not living up to our values and our legal obligations as my colleague juan fernando lópez aguilar, kati piri, irena joveva and other group colleagues have said. so clearly, when the council of illegal crosses speaks... but, let's see: if a person shows up at the border and cannot file an asylum application at the border, how can you talk about illegal border crossing? or, when we are not allowing asylum applications to be lodged at consulates and embassies, how do we take notice of people showing up at europe's external borders? that is what you, madam president-in-office, have to answer.
madam president, as i have already said, this is very emotional for me because i come from bosnia and herzegovina and i went through the war. the question of asylum seekers and refugees is a very emotional one, and i will read my speech in order not to get into deeper emotions about the people who are abusing the situation of these poor people. ‘someone has been asleep in bosnia and herzegovina for the past three years’, said the minister of security of bosnia and herzegovina, fahrudin radončić. last week in zagreb he requested the assistance of the republic of croatia. he mentioned how the migration crisis in bosnia and herzegovina should no longer be treated as a humanitarian crisis but as a security one. the country urgently needs over 400 extra border guards. out of eur 40 million allocated from european aid, only 7% is earmarked for the support of local institutions in bosnia and herzegovina. local institutions have endured most of the pressure since the beginning of the migrant crisis. the only ones who profit from this crisis are human traffickers. the croatian police arrested 95 of them only this year. human traffickers are so present that the deputy director of the united states agency for international development (usaid), bonnie glick, stated that america will have to cut their assistance to bosnia and herzegovina if institutions don’t intensify their fight against it. it’s a fragile country. don’t play with bosnia and herzegovina here. shame on you.
madam president, we members of this parliament are aware of the fundamental rights violations occurring at the european union borders and particularly the systematic practice of violent push-backs by croatian law enforcement authorities. these places in bosnia and croatia are critical points as regards compliance with human rights, but highlights could also be made on another borders, like the french-italian one, or the southern border of spain, where push-backs also occur very often. one a month ago a spanish coastguard returned migrants to moroccan authorities hours after they landed on spanish soil. this is a violation of the protections granted by the european court of human rights. it’s time to say once again that border control cannot under any circumstance violate current laws on human rights. furthermore, european authorities and member states should facilitate the priceless work that ngos carry out rescuing people in the mediterranean sea, like the basque ship aita mari, which rescued 158 people earlier this week.
madam president, china itself acknowledges that there are difficulties and shortcomings in its response and, because of china's lack of transparency, there is still uncertainty about the extent of the outbreak. we don't have any information from africa either. so, it's a public health emergency that is testing nations the resilience of nations, public, private institutions, workplaces, schools, major economic events such as, for example, the mobile world congress in barcelona, which this afternoon has been canceled due to the coronavirus. the citizens of the union are asking us for concrete actions and european solutions. we therefore call for a single response line, coordinated and harmonized with the who and all the member states. we need a joint and immediate communication strategy that gives peace of mind and security to all europeans, because only then will we be able to combat disinformation, fake news, stigmas that only cause alarm. i myself, as a european citizen, miss public information on how to prevent the coronavirus. the people's party has therefore taken the initiative with concrete measures. the first is a clear communication strategy that inspires confidence; cooperation in vaccine research; access to big data, for which we have proposed a questionnaire for passengers entering european territory; and, above all, cooperation with the rest of the world. and so tomorrow we call on the health ministers and the commissioner to give a united and effective response to the... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
the honourable member's presidency, the common agricultural policy is the most expensive and least effective european policy. in its long history, several major reforms have been attempted, but without much success because, regardless of the specific model, the high level of state interventionism makes european agriculture expensive, inefficient and globally uncompetitive. we are entering a new era of reform with a focus on circular economy, climate change and green policies. we want to make european agriculture sustainable and climate neutral in the long term, but i fear we will resort to the same solutions that have proven bad in the past. new expensive public programs and subsidies are not a sustainable solution in the long run. we need to encourage innovation in agriculture and make educational programmes available to all european farmers. this is the only way to ensure sustainable growth of this industry, boost competitiveness and avoid overburdening the budget.
madam president, commissioner, we are starting from the premise that a large majority of this house wants agriculture to be more sustainable and to contribute to achieving the objectives of the 2030 agenda. i hope that the farm-to-table strategy will help to achieve this, but i am concerned that some people want to turn european agriculture into a big tailor's box. let me give you an example: some people want to see this happen to agriculture, like the iphone. what started as a phone has now become a gps, a camera, a recorder, an internet browser, a odometer, an alarm clock, etc. a device that serves almost everything and whether or not you make phone calls is of little interest. similarly, some people want european agriculture to serve the preservation of the environment, to combat climate change, to reduce pesticides, to reduce the use of antibiotics, to improve biodiversity, to give citizens better information, to protect forests, to improve animal welfare, and so on. but we must not forget that the main purpose of our agriculture and of the common agricultural policy is to obtain quality products at reasonable prices which encourage the great effort of our farmers. their future will undoubtedly depend on it. let this farm-to-table strategy help those farm workers, farmers and livestock farmers, to achieve the objectives at a fair price and commensurate with the effort they put in.
i'm not going to let you do that. the current system is indeed flawed and destroys some farms in one region and encourages production in another. the dairy sector is a prime example. moreover, the dominance of shopping centres in the marketplace poses a threat to a wide range of consumers. for example, lithuania's largest retail chain, maxim, sold substandard meat last week and covered it up. the new strategy must ensure that consumers have access to natural, safe food that is grown and produced in their own region. today, food often travels thousands of miles. but does anyone ask themselves, do we need this? is it good for the environment and the climate? direct support to farmers in different member states still varies, not by percentage, but sometimes. there are still primary and secondary farmers in europe. where else are barriers created under the guise of free movement of goods and services or trade agreements opening up the way for imports of gmo soybeans or products grown under questionable conditions? by creating favourable conditions for farmers to work in their own land, we will ensure the viability of regions and allow people to stay in the countryside.
madam president, the spanish agricultural and livestock sector has been mobilizing for a month in the face of the crisis affecting the sector: prices at source that do not cover production costs; abusive practices by large distributors; trade agreements with quality standards that are completely opposite to european standards. in short, a lack of profitability which has forced the closure of hundreds of farms. the european union is loudly proclaiming its 'farm to fork' strategy, yet little or nothing is said about the real concerns of farmers because we are only focusing on reducing plant protection products, increasing animal welfare rules, and incorporating new environmental obligations. i wonder how we are going to respond to the market crisis facing the sector in spain and other countries of the european union if we continue to fail to understand that an economic sector that is not profitable can never be sustainable. in this way we will remain alienated from the reality of our field and unable to offer solutions to a sector that needs more understanding and urgent support.
author. madam president, protest is not a crime, it is a human right; it is a political right; it is the legitimate response of the people to take charge of their destiny. something that shouldn't be necessary to remember. however, we are experiencing a widespread setback of civil and political rights in the world - the repression of protest, as i saw firsthand in chile. but it's also happening in europe, the middle east or asia. today we are talking about guinea which is experiencing massive demonstrations calling for it not to exceed the constitutional limit of two presidential terms. we join the solidarity of the people demonstrating in the streets, the demands of african human rights bodies and the united nations. we want the right to demonstrate to be respected, human rights violations to stop and protesters, journalists and human rights defenders to be released. but today we also want to denounce the double standards of the european union, which says it defends human rights but does not stop selling arms in cases like guinea; which does not act to ensure that european multinationals respect human rights; which uses development aid to control borders and which does not invoke human rights clauses in its own treaties, not even now in the cotonou agreement.
madam president, thank you, commissioner, for bringing to this house a debate which i consider to be fundamental. and it is true that we often talk about a lot of issues and we talk about issues, such as road safety, right now, which is a fundamental issue in the day-to-day life of the european union and in the day-to-day lives of our fellow citizens as well. as the commissioner rightly pointed out, more than 25 500 people die on european roads every year. in spain, for example, around 71 or 91% of accidents are due to human causes. and that is where i believe we must focus all our efforts as the european parliament, as the european commission and also as the european council. we must unite all our forces from the european institutions and also from the states. and i think that new technologies are going to play a fundamental role here, a key role, because we have to take into account that new models of autonomous cars are already being created. we are seeing how this human risk is the key factor in road accidents and therefore we have to try to reduce it as much as possible. and we have to be smart and use, from my point of view, new technologies, such as, for example, may be artificial intelligence, so that that human risk is as low as possible in traffic accidents. because, after all, we're talking about the lives of many people. and i think we have to use digitalization as well to be able to reduce that high mortality. it is also true that i believe that this is a real challenge for the internal market. i believe that we must be able, for example, to create and guarantee legal certainty, to encourage investment in the relevant technologies and also to protect citizens and consumers in the face of the new challenges we face in all matters relating to road safety. i therefore believe that digitalisation is a good opportunity for road safety to become a new challenge to be tackled by the european commission.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with all those affected and my appreciation for all those who are fighting this epidemic - above all the people of italy. what is happening in italy is dramatic. we have received reports of several hundred deaths over the weekend, and this shows that it is just as mrs de sutter and others say not a normal flu; it's very, very serious. we must do everything we can to avoid dramatic situations in all the member states. we need more europe, a stronger european response. the german minister for health said at the weekend that the ecdc, our european centre, should be greatly expanded and given more powers. we must support and implement this demand very quickly. legally , it takes a while . but i call on the commission and the member states to provide more staff on a voluntary basis and to draw up uniform recommendations with the help of the ecdc. most of the recommendations are known. but i would like to raise one point and ask the commission to include it in its communications: we know that people who smoke are much more likely to get the coronavirus and that there are also a lot more deaths in that group. if you haven't found a reason to quit smoking yet, you have one now, and we should support people in that. my final point: of course, vaccination is important, but it can take time. some patients are already being treated experimentally in hospitals. treating viruses with drugs is difficult, but there are approaches. researchers who do this across europe should have all the opportunities, financial and otherwise. we must do everything we can to support them so that the findings are rapidly disseminated throughout europe. so that patients who are at risk get the best possible treatment.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, today we are discussing a european problem in a crisis situation. do you not think that we should know specifically from the commission, apart from general information, how much money is being added to the budget for prevention, how much money is being allocated for prevention materials, how much money is being allocated for medicines, how we are ensuring border security in the european union? i think these are the measures we need to go to our country, to tell our governments to take responsibility, but also at the level of the european commission we need to know concretely how much we give to research, how much we give to prevention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would also like to express my solidarity with the medical staff, because they are really on the front line, and my sorrow for the many victims. with this coronavirus, i would say we should be alert without alarm. we need to be alert, because it's still an epidemic that's spreading in over 100 countries. we can see that even at european level there are many cases of contamination and a considerable number of deaths. this coronavirus is unknown and has no treatment or vaccine. a lot of people talk to me about a vaccine, but the vaccine, it's a year away from being used after clinical trials. the coronavirus affects at least 15% of people in a more or less severe way, 5% of whom require resuscitation and respiratory support, and when you look at the mortality rates, they range from 0.6% to 3.4%. but what they don't tell you is that over 80 percent of people develop a mild disease. that's important to say. so, are we ready? that is where we need the commission to call on the states. because when you look at the situation in italy and even in france, you see that our systems are quickly saturated. in milan, at the moment, the systems are saturated. the establishment of resuscitation systems is a matter of great importance in order to cope with these new waves of patients. at the same time, we need to call in all the medical staff. it's called the white plan in france, where we call in the reservists because there's a real emergency. and i think the states took a little bit of time to respond. the development of outpatient medicine for home confinement is also needed. so i have a question for the president of parliament: what are we doing for parliament? because we're a real cruise ship, with thousands of passengers. and we are still super-propagators. i would suggest that we close parliament for a while, monitor the situation and then come back. but i think we are in a situation which is not tenable... (the president withdraws the speaker)
first of all, madam president, it must be remembered that for many years in many member states there has been a policy of total irresponsibility and of eliminating cuts. there was underfunding of health care and overburdening of medical staff. so the fact that individual facilities are still managing the situation is more than a victory for governments, it is a victory for the strong will of the staff, to whom we should be grateful. with them and the ecdc and wto preparedness, there's no need to panic. prevention and objective information are crucial at this time. as regards the ecdc, i would like to point out that i have long called for the strengthening of the agency, both in terms of its powers and, above all, its funding. because if anything proves its importance, it's this epidemic, and i'm very grateful to hear from my colleagues at the epp today that they've finally understood that, too. but what's important to me is that when the dust settles and the epidemic is over, we take something from all of this. because it seems the system isn't set up the way it should be. first, the lack of vital health supplies for frontline workers, such as doctors, nurses, and social workers, is alarming. it's clear that we underestimated our stockpile and our ability to manufacture these things. and that has to change in the future, and there's a lot more that has to change, and i firmly believe that when we get through this crisis, as we get through it, there's a lot of work to be done to strengthen our system.
madam president, in the context of a responsible attitude towards the ongoing coronavirus epidemic, we must also reveal the tragic consequences of the european union's policy of all governments treating health as a cost and individual responsibility, as a field of profit for the groups through commercialisation. the government's concern in greece that the flu outbreak will not coincide with the novel coronavirus is a testament to the nakedness of medical nursing staff, intensive care units and infrastructure. these are not covered by the over-exertion of the sanitary services nor by the patches of recruitment with short-term contracts that have been announced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. also by a state decision binding on employers to have full wages, insurance and labor rights for those workers who are called to stay at home. early planning for prevention, investigation, diagnosis, epidemiological surveillance and protection of public health objectively conflicts with the laws of profit and the free market.
madam president, we need more leadership and more coordination and to continue to work with the scientific evidence to give an effective response to this emergency that is testing everything that europe stands for. our first objective is to contain the spread of the virus to protect the population, as asian countries are already doing. our second objective is to provide solutions to the health, social and economic impact. in the health sector, we must give priority to protecting the most vulnerable population: the elderly, the chronically ill and other sick people. we also need to protect all health and safety personnel, because they have more potential risk. we must strengthen health systems with financial resources to ensure their staff and emergency, urgent, primary and home care services, and also to continue to care for patients with other diseases. we must also set up centralised purchases of protective, diagnostic and treatment equipment. the coronavirus is not stopped by alarmism or fear, but by intelligence, unity and responsibility. to avoid an economic depression with devastating consequences for employment, the people's party has therefore put forward a contingency plan with economic and conciliatory measures to help families, workers and the economic sectors most affected, such as the services sector, tourism, hotels, industry, the self-employed and smes. we call on the spanish government, the council meeting this afternoon and the commission to make use of all the financial resources available to alleviate the negative effects on the economy and to help strengthen health and communication systems.
madam president, it's funny how sometimes the smallest enemies are the ones that reveal our greatest weaknesses. we have seen how, without a strong state, without a quality public system, without universal public health systems, control and prevention are much more complicated. yesterday we saw the stock markets plummet; we heard again about the risk premium; we heard again about the oil price war. in short, a market hysteria at anything that affects the richest. i remind you that some of the countries we have not yet recovered from the 2008 scam. we therefore believe that now is the time to be sensible, to put resources in the general interest, to avoid the prescriptions of those who are obscenely taking advantage of this crisis to propose more prescriptions based on cuts and, above all, to take advantage of the debate on the european budget to answer a big question: do we want more cuts or are we going to bet on public services to be stronger in the face of possible crises?
madam speaker, the spread of the coronavirus is a unique public health challenge. the epidemic has not been confined to one area but has spread rapidly worldwide, and the fact that scientists and doctors still have no answers to most of the questions that the public is asking has contributed to the spread of panic. the union should therefore be able to provide additional support to the competent national authorities in order to ensure that the measures taken to control the spread of the disease are effective and proportionate. some member states currently do not allow sanitary ware to be taken out of their borders, so companies with union-wide central warehouses in those member states cannot ensure the distribution of sanitary ware to the rest of europe. the european institutions must protect the rights and interests of all union citizens and put an end to such bad practices.
madam president, the european union must be much more than a political and economic union; it must protect its citizens and look after their welfare. so it has to be decided in the fight against covid-19. first, greater coordination of efforts to contain the spread of the virus is required, and second, much more investment in scientific research by encouraging cooperation between centres of excellence in the field. the imi public-private partnership must show more action and more results, only then will europe be able to contribute to the international effort to develop vaccines and therapeutics against the virus. the figures so far presented by the commission in this area are laughable. thirdly, an articulated response to support business and the economy. the side effects of this public health problem are already evident in many sectors. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to freedom of movement. the two main elements of this response must be speed and the least possible bureaucracy. we must prevent a temporary crisis from causing irreparable damage to people, the economy and society.
it is indeed necessary, madam president, to make a realistic assessment of the threat posed by the coronavirus to the european union and its possible consequences for human health, the quality of life of people and our economy, and therefore the european union must develop adequate measures in solidarity and coordination to control this epidemic. and you can't be in here. and now, i want to thank all of you from the bottom of my heart for your dedicated medical staff, because only by working together can we defeat this rogue virus. there is a need to coordinate information and prevention measures effectively, to allocate the necessary funds from the european union budget to help member states to support research in order to develop the necessary vaccine as quickly as possible. the uncontrolled spread of the coronavirus is a concern as it threatens to lead to shortages of medicines, as the production and supply chain of medicines is severely affected. here too, the european union must take coordinated action to ensure the uninterrupted supply of medicines to hospitals and patients. it also concerns the european parliament. the european parliament must certainly continue to put in place preventive measures to help protect the people who work here in parliament, including remote working, more flexible organisation of plenary sessions and committee meetings. and it's hard to expect that the threat of an epidemic is short-lived, so you should have an action plan for at least three months.
madam president, we are faced with a crisis which confronts us with a very grave responsibility. we have a health problem, but we also have an economic problem which could jeopardise the future of europe. we need to show that all the european institutions have learned from the mistakes of the past, from how we faced the great crisis of 2008, and that we are capable of giving agile, decisive, firm, coordinated, forceful, necessary responses, and of taking the necessary measures - temporary and structural - that allow our citizens to face the problem and the crisis with hope. we need to convey that we are able to coordinate health responses to the challenges we are going to face, that we are facing, but that we are also able to give responses to our small entrepreneurs, our self-employed, our companies, with one goal: to ensure that this temporary situation does not cause a structural recession. we must not be ashamed of europe, we must appreciate that more europe is needed now than ever before.
madam president, as the number of people affected and killed and the turmoil increase, we must call for responsibility and calm. to responsibility in the effort to not infect ourselves to not infect and to stop the spread of the virus and to calm because panic can cause more damage than the virus itself. we must learn from our vulnerability, which is abysmal in europe. governments are overwhelmed imagine this with a more lethal virus or with biological weapons: an attack. there is no coordination, no plans. a lot of improvisation and contradictions and breakdowns in solidarity. now we can see the difference between a real crisis and alarmist, climate or other fables, as false as they are self-interested. business cannot overshadow security and defense criteria. they cannot be far away and in the hands of third-party productions of eventual urgent need. we need secure borders and national cohesion for united and united reaction and, in addition, coordination. the coronavirus reminds us of basic survival lessons that long peace and well-being had made us forget.
madam president, in the face of the coronavirus: science, prudence and evidence. we cannot allow ourselves to be carried away by irrationality, or by false recipes, or by misinformation. it is essential to coordinate in europe and to share knowledge between member states, because no frontiers are immune. science, prudence, coordination and investment in public and universal health. it is unpleasant to see those who have done so much damage with abusive cuts now lamenting the effects of those same health cuts. it is the tragedy of having taken health as a commodity and not as a right. in addition, now, at this time, i would also like to remember the sanitarians, the ones who are fighting in the sanitary trenches every day against the virus and are putting the health of their fellow citizens before their own. that is an example we must take across europe. strengthening public health should be the lesson we draw from this crisis.
madam president, i agree with what many members have said, including the chairman of my group and the spokeswoman for my group on this subject, but i would like to begin by making an institutional reflection on the constitutional dimension of the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework and the functioning of the european council. we are in a situation where four governments have tried to impose their will on the rest of the european council and have done so, in part also, with a certain connivance on the part of the president of the european council and the president of the commission, who have accepted their blackmail. and what this shows is that the unanimity rule continues to paralyse europe and, in some cases, to impose or facilitate the imposition of the will of a minority of states on the union as a whole. this is unacceptable and we must therefore update the functioning of our institutions, take advantage of the gateways in the lisbon treaty and also propose the reform of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. we are at a key moment for the future of europe, when the next european budget will be decided, which will have to face the great challenges facing the eu: the digital transformation, the fight against climate change and migration. the uk's departure has left a hole in the budgets which cannot be reduced to cuts in key items, in order to achieve a strong europe that leaves no one behind. in spain, these cuts could have a major impact, especially in rural areas, as the common agricultural policy would suffer a 14% cut and regional development a 12.7% cut. in other words, they will directly affect our farmers and smes. to get the budget the right size, a reform of eu revenue is urgently needed. the new own resources are an opportunity to combat tax evasion by large companies and to make the big polluters pay for their environmental damage.
mr president, the situation that has developed this week on the greek-turkish border is a violation of the human rights of immigrants and a violation of the democratic values that are supposed to prevail in the european union. this is the result of years of inaction on the part of the european institutions and the member states. it is the result of shameful agreements with third countries, which are paid to take on in a cruel and inhuman way what europe should have taken on in a solidarity and human way. a crisis in the management of asylum in europe has been treated as a threat to the european way of life. this misconception gives rise to reactionary and neo-fascist movements. in lesbos, the violence and impunity with which the far right acts against refugees, journalists and ngos is alarming. if the commission and the council want to find a common response to the current migratory situation, i would ask them to put aside the hypocrisy.
mr president, i would also like to thank the workers of this parliament for allowing us to have this sitting. as we debate this today, thousands of europeans are struggling between life and death in collapsed hospitals, lacking basic supplies, with overcrowded professionals risking their lives to fight this terrible disease. as we debate this, millions of europeans are confined to their homes, fearing for their lives, for the lives of their loved ones, afraid of losing those they love most and of never being able to see them again or say goodbye to them. and as we debate here, hundreds and thousands of businesses, small and medium-sized businesses, self-employed businesses are debating whether they're going to survive or whether they're going to have to close and lay off their workers. it's a terrible situation. but even in these dark moments, we see how, as we debate here, our citizens demonstrate the great values that shape our societies: generosity, commitment and solidarity. and it is this context of commitment, generosity and solidarity that must guide our decisions as legislators. we are at that moment, at that grave moment, at that great moment of living up to where our societies have brought us. we have no vaccines for our citizens or to prevent or mitigate the disease, just as we have no vaccines to prevent infection in our economy. but there is still time to adopt measures to mitigate its effects and to prevent it from destroying the healthy fabric of our economy, destroying businesses and jobs. the measures taken by the commission are in the right direction. we are making decisions that will help our health systems, and we have enabled mechanisms that will enable our countries to cope financially with the crisis. but it's not enough, we have to go further. we have to be brave, because the challenge we face is whether the recession is going to turn into a depression, and this forces us to make the brave and firm decisions that our citizens need. i've been hearing a word these days, a concept that was coined in the 2008 recession: "moral hazard". the moral hazard we have and face is if we are to carry on our backs and on our conscience the death of our citizens. the moral hazard of letting thousands of businesses die, the moral hazard of letting millions of our fellow citizens lose their jobs. that is the real moral hazard we face and that we have to address. in conclusion, i think we must send a clear message: we will do everything possible and impossible to prevent this from happening. because if we don't, if we are not able to prove with facts that our citizens are not alone and that in this crisis no one is going to be left behind, this virus will not only threaten our lives, our jobs, our future and our hopes, but it will have lethally infected our democracy. and we can't afford that. that's not gonna happen. we have found that divided we are weaker, alone we are weaker and together we are stronger. we must do what is necessary. we must do it for our citizens. that will be our commitment.
in writing. the eu is taking decisive action to mitigate the socioeconomic impact on transport and mobility. the aviation sector is suffering hard from the covid-19 crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass of less than 100 tonnes. i would also like to acknowledge the good coordination between the commission and the member states in the establishment of the green corridors. these crossborder highways will ease traffic and ensure the transport of essential goods such as food, masks and medical supplies between eu countries. green corridors will also ensure that our carriers travel in complete safety. the commission has heard from governments, such as spain, that these corridors should have rest areas and basic food, welfare and hygiene facilities for the hauliers. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have been so generous in offering food and drink free of charge to our hauliers along the routes, as they have done in my region, aragon. solidarity is the key to overcoming this crisis.
in writing. the coronavirus is a global crisis. today, we are the continent with the most infected people and the highest number of deaths. the professionalism of healthcare personnel, the security forces and bodies, all the workers whose work allows us to cope with our day to day in the best possible way, as well as the exemplary behavior of all citizens, are, without a doubt, our best weapon to win against covid-19. however, the european citizens are asking for a coordinated, united and united response from the eu, and we cannot let them down. the 37 billion euros we have approved in parliament shows that we are moving in the right direction, but the countries most affected need more: it is urgent to mobilise the european stability mechanism (esm) to help state governments. the social democrats also call for a common european investment marshall plan, which would include the issuing of 'crown bonds', the introduction of european unemployment insurance or the creation of a temporary european minimum income for workers, the selfemployed and smes. no one can be left unprotected in the face of this crisis. we must act now and we must do so in unity, solidarity and coordination. only then will we be able to meet this challenge successfully.
in writing. the covid-19 crisis reveals the limits of our societies and socioeconomic systems, where excessive economic interests, concentration of wealth, unsustainable production systems and the shrinking role of the government to a minimum, have relegated many citizens and territories. this crisis is a wake-up call and an opportunity to build global resilience and a more cohesive society towards sustainable well-being where we all act together in the face of the challenge of citizen protection and social peace and essential social services. the socialists therefore call for an immediate coordinated european response, the concentration of all eu r & d investment to find a vaccine, the stockpiling of essential medical supplies and the provision of diagnostic tests for the most affected regions. we also call for the issuing of 'crown bonds' by the european central bank, the activation of the european stability mechanism, a temporary european minimum income scheme for low-income workers and families and the creation of a guarantee to deal with potential mass unemployment. we need a european strategy for social and economic recovery and reconstruction, a marshall plan to preserve the well-being achieved alongside a transition to a climate-neutral economy.
in writing. the world, europe and, in particular, some member states, are facing an exceptional global health emergency which we will only be able to overcome if we work together, in coordination and cooperation, with the greatest possible efficiency and solidarity. this crisis is having a high human cost for society as a whole, but the professionalism of health workers, security forces, transport workers, food distribution workers, essential services, rural workers and others is certainly to be appreciated. the eu is suffering from the spread of contagion and all governments are, to a greater or lesser extent, taking containment measures, but the success of which is subject to coordination at european level. more than ever, our future depends on our joint action. citizens expect a coordinated community response that strengthens our health systems and addresses urgent material needs; that ensures the distribution of essential goods; and, above all, that comes to the rescue to mitigate the negative effects of the extraordinary measures that are being taken by most governments to contain the virus and that already negatively affect our economies.
in writing. the world is facing an exceptional global health emergency that we can only overcome if we work together. the first steps have already been taken, but we still need more ambitious measures to support national efforts and ensure financial solidarity. that is why, in line with the initiative launched by the spanish prime minister, we european socialists have asked the european leaders to adopt a plan with 25 urgent measures to combat this social and economic crisis. among them, we call for a new marshall plan for common european investment, the activation of the european stability mechanism with a specific credit line, the launch of a european unemployment insurance combined with a minimum income, a temporary european employment guarantee to prevent mass unemployment and a loan for first homeowners, a specific scheme to protect tenants against evictions, measures to ensure the distribution of essential goods and medical equipment and better coordination and exchange of information between member states on border closures and restrictions. because only through unity, solidarity and defence of the welfare state will we successfully get out of this crisis.
in writing. citizens expect a response from the union to meet this challenge. we need more ambitious measures, particularly in the area of fiscal policy, to support national efforts and to ensure financial solidarity. the european socialists, in line with the initiative of president pedro sánchez, have asked the european leaders to approve a plan with 25 urgent measures to leave no one behind, including: a new marshall plan for common european investment which envisages the issuance of eurobonds and 'crown bonds'; the activation of the european stability mechanism without additional macroeconomic conditions; european unemployment insurance, combined with a minimum income; a temporary european employment guarantee to tackle mass unemployment; or a loan guarantee for first homeowners to prevent mortgage defaults and a specific scheme to protect tenants against evictions. we european socialists want to ensure that no worker, no sector is left alone and that we get out of this 'economic and productive hibernation' without losing businesses and human capital along the way. only from unity and from solidarity and from the defence of the welfare state will we successfully face this crisis.
in writing. in difficult times, it is important to keep our goals clear and to take important decisions that protect the interests of our people and help the european union emerge from this crisis more economically. i want to focus on three issues that are important to keep in mind in order to better cope with the covid-19 pandemic. first, we need to understand that in fighting a pandemic, we have to start at the root. this means that we must be specific in our approach to the people's republic of china and make clear that china, as the leading global economic power, must not allow practices and outdated understandings to prevail, resulting in the trade in open markets of animal species that spread viral diseases. this cannot be tolerated. secondly, the european union's fundamental values - the free movement of services, goods, labour and capital - must be safeguarded even in times of crisis. the most important thing is to ensure that green corridors are in place from the start of any crisis. it's very closely tied to our security. thirdly, we must do everything we can to ensure that the support packages aimed at helping businesses, and in particular smes, are adequate, as they are the ones most affected by the crisis. we also need to ensure that the availability of subsidies and resources for our farmers is not compromised. the european parliament must find ways of continuing to work in such a way that our decisions and actions are timely and that the interests of our people are protected.
in writing. three months after who began warning about covid-19, we gather in this special urgency plenary. spain is in mourning over the immense tragedy that covid-19 brings, whose dimensions are a consequence of the catastrophic management of the government. for ideological reasons, he hid the danger for weeks, making no preparations. he has been criminally negligent and will be held accountable. the government ignored who's january guidelines on the virus's 'international public emergency'. the socialist-communist government put the propaganda interests of the feminist demonstrations of 8 march ahead of the safety, health and life of its fellow citizens. this house too was dragged along by its ideological interests, with greta appearing amid cheers on 4 march, eclipsing all the prevention measures. while the consensus celebrated its ideological orgy here and in spain, donald trump, orbán, poland and my party, vox, were branded as xenophobes for wanting to close borders to the virus, a measure that was later imposed by all the governments of the world. vox will demand that lessons be learned from both the spanish and european governments in order to rebuild a realistic agenda in spain and the eu that meets the needs of our compatriots.
in writing. – i deem it important that we act against any attacks on lgbti rights or women’s rights, also when these attacks are covered by measures given to covid-19 pandemic. access to legal abortion and sexual education must be maintained, also during a sanitary crisis! we, socialists have a clear line on fighting for lgbti rights and women’s rights, which we will not drop just because we are currently undergoing an exceptional sanitary crisis. in this sense, i strongly condemn the attempts by the hungarian government to backtrack on trans- and intersex persons’ rights and the attempts of the polish government to further criminalise abortion care, stigmatise hiv positive people and undermine young people’s access to sexual education! i also underline that member states must always follow eu rules and therefore internal border controls must be based on the existing legal provisions and must remain exceptional, limited in time, justified, proportionate and transparent. as part of a crisis exit strategy, the restrictions must be lifted as soon as possible. however, at the meantime, cross border travel, in particular in healthcare and elderly care, as well as in the agri-food sector, must not be limited. these concerns must be mentioned in our resolution.
in writing. the coronavirus epidemic has hit all countries hard. the worst human suffering has been in belgium, spain, italy, and luxembourg. the extent of the economic damage is not known, but it is expected to be severe in all member states. in a context of crisis for all member states, solidarity between member states remains important. i consider it necessary to issue common eurobonds. these would strengthen the euro's position as a reserve currency. globally, 62% of all reserves are held in us dollars and only 21% in euros. the euro's position as a reserve currency would be significantly strengthened if we could agree on common euro bonds. this would benefit both countries with conservative fiscal policies and those with a high public sector debt burden in the form of lower interest rates. debates on the possibility of issuing common eurobonds began before the euro was born. unfortunately, no agreement was reached on the common eurobonds. as long as the moral hazard of countries with more conservative fiscal policies having to cope with higher interest rates on common bonds persists, there will be no common eurobonds. it is not useful to focus the debate on the question of whether to be for or against eurobonds. we should strive to create common bonds that benefit the whole euro area.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution on the coordinated action of the union to combat the covid-19 pandemic and its consequences is an initiative jointly tabled by six groups in the european parliament, including the epp group. it looks at the measures taken so far by the european commission and proposes new ones, including ways of reforming the way the union works. my group, the epp, has supported this joint motion for a resolution, because it is time to join forces. the european institutions must rise to the occasion and address the pandemic on the basis of the principles of solidarity and responsibility. with this joint motion for a resolution we are asking the commission to manage the health and social crisis, but also to remember that we must prepare for the recovery of our economy. we must do everything possible to keep our companies afloat, especially smes, to protect jobs and our consumers. the single market is a key tool; economic and social recovery will be accelerated if we keep internal borders open. we therefore call on the european commission to act in coordination with the member states so that the european union can emerge stronger from this crisis.
in writing. – unfortunately, facing the covid-19 pandemic showed that the european commission has not reacted in due time: the measures adopted were not sufficient and its coordination role was lacking. now more than ever we need strong, adequate and timely measures to protect our citizens, our economies including the most impacted sectors, and also the single common market. i welcome the emergency funds and the exceptional measures that allow more flexibility in the use of eu cohesion and structural funding to alleviate the effects of the coronavirus. nevertheless, i am also calling for a more coordinated european action to protect eu citizens and support the economy during and especially after this unprecedented crisis. as many of my colleagues, i call the commission for a common recovery plan within a new, ambitious and long-term budget to mitigate the socio-economic and financial effects of the lockdown. this would prove essential in order to maintain eu’s credibility, solidarity and unity among its member states. this crisis affects everyone and this is crucial that all necessary measures are timely debated and adopted.
in writing. while the health crisis should have been an opportunity to show concrete evidence of european solidarity in action, it is clear that generosity has been shown to the whole world, before our own. on 22 april, the commission unveiled a series of exceptional aid for the union's neighbourhood, which includes the balkan states as well as tunisia and jordan, amounting to eur 3 billion. worse, despite some commendable actions, such as germany's welcome of french patients, the crisis has highlighted the persistent tensions between member states, to the point that even the president of the european commission has had to explain herself. moreover, this tragedy reveals the flaws in the european model of economic development, which the political movement i represent has long denounced. the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. at a time when some voices are being raised in the united states to demand the repatriation of these vital products, how many human tragedies will it take for the union to make its aggiornamento?
in writing. the covid-19 virus, which has spread across the world and in europe, has already tragically killed many thousands of people in europe and around the world, caused irreparable damage and has left over a billion people confined to their homes. this crisis has shown that the european union and its member states are unfortunately not sufficiently solidarity-oriented to concentrate and coordinate their response to this pandemic. the ongoing pandemic and isolation have hit the most vulnerable groups in society, including the elderly, people with disabilities, people who already suffer from poor health, as well as people facing domestic violence, especially women and children. the crisis requires urgent and non-bureaucratic measures to mobilise the financial capacity to ensure the availability of the necessary medical equipment and protective equipment, the large research capacity and the funding for the development of medicines and vaccines. no one knows how long this crisis will last, but its economic and social consequences will be long-lasting and damaging. the commission must therefore present a new multiannual financial perspective, adapted to the current situation, aimed at strengthening social welfare and economic recovery. we need a european child guarantee, a european unemployment insurance scheme, a minimum wage to ensure the safety of the most vulnerable.
in writing. the original aim of the resolution was to express the european parliament's readiness to act as a united front in times of emergency to protect the lives of europeans and to help the european economy recover from the pandemic as soon as possible. unfortunately, the text was watered down by the left-liberal forces and made the subject of an ideological struggle, and only four groups finally gave their names; the plan was thus foiled, seriously weakening the legitimacy of the resolution. moreover, it has been forced to include subjects that have nothing to do with the original objective, such as the relocation of migrants, the european public prosecutor's office or the transition to majority decision-making. the text mentions hungary and poland in a negative context, which are doing particularly well in the management of the coronavirus pandemic. it is unacceptable that the measures taken by the hungarian government are presented as being subject to serious errors of fact. it's also undermining the credibility of the ep. the citizens of the european union expect from the european parliament not petty party politics but powerful, swift and tangible measures that can make a real contribution to overcoming the pandemic and the resulting economic crisis, and that alleviate the delay caused by the eu institutions' misperception of the situation. there is no need for the european union to hide its delayed response by criticising certain member states. it is not a matter of the institutions discrediting individual member states on the pretext of ideological battles.
in writing. – in the context of the current crisis, one of the priorities of the itre committee is to protect europe’s 25 million small and medium enterprises, as well as the sectors of industries most affected, including those sectors that are suffering from disruption of supply chains. accordingly, i reinforce the call for a european horizontal strategy for sme recovery to support them by providing continuous access to finance, reducing red tape and fostering investments in strategic value chains. i express support for the reintegration of supply chains inside the eu and for the proposal for a health autonomy action in strategic areas such as active pharmaceutical ingredients (api). in the same context, i highlight the importance of strengthening the competences, budget and staff of the ecdc and ema, to enable these agencies to efficiently coordinate medical responses during crisis. i am conviced that the eu recovery package will have at its core enough financial resources. finally, the covid-19 crisis proved one more time the necessity to further integrate eu space programs galileo and copernicus. the added value of these systems along with the use of artificial intelligence play a decisive role in combating pandemics and crisis.
in writing. in the last three months, the european parliament has been in the news for three things: for approving the climate emergency, for singing the hand when the uk left and for inviting greta to give a conference in the middle of a pandemic, with the building closed even to state visits. these were the priorities of this parliament until the wuhan coronavirus hit. now the consensus groups are asking us to join a joint motion for a resolution calling for even more powers and more bureaucratic bodies to be given to the european union at the expense of the nations. they haven't learned anything. if this emergency has taught us anything, it is that, in the hour of truth, the institutions that count are the family and the national community. they're the ones who'll get us out of this crisis. we cannot continue to sacrifice these institutions on the altar of political correctness, bureaucracy and green agreements. europe must help, not hinder. we will vote yes to economic aid to alleviate this emergency, or to investigate the role of the chinese dictatorship in the spread of this pandemic, but not to plans to advance the federalist agenda.
in writing. the crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic goes beyond a health crisis, presents challenges at all levels and the potential impact on all sectors of society is yet to be determined. this crisis affects all countries and knows no borders. it has claimed thousands of lives around the world and millions of households will suffer the long-term consequences. that is why we european socialists demand strong, coordinated action from the eu, with citizens and their fundamental rights at its centre. we call for the protection of the most vulnerable so that no one is left behind and for a recovery with the green deal and digital transformation at its core. we also call on the european commission and the council to provide a 'large-scale recovery and reconstruction package' to support the european economy after the crisis, as well as 'recovery bonds guaranteed by the eu budget'. the eu has to rise to the occasion.
mr president, as we fight to eradicate this pandemic, we are facing the largest economic crisis, probably, in 100 years. coming out of this crisis requires us to mobilise large amounts of public investment. sadly, our member states coming out of a large euro crisis are too burdened with debt to undertake this investment. that’s why the solution is that europe rises to the challenge and europe puts together this plan, this schuman plan, if you allow me to call it this way. this parliament proposes that the european commission raises a two trillion recovery package that is financed by recovery bonds, which allows us to invest in medical, in green deal, in digitalisation, in all the priorities of our european citizens. now, the big question is: how do we finance such a plan? five groups in this parliament are offering a grand bargain to our member states. we are offering them a deal. we are saying: ‘we understand you’re really constrained, we understand it’s hard for you to raise your contributions’. that’s why we think these interests and this principle from these long—term loans that we need to pay for the plan have to be paid with new own resources that make those who cheat on their taxes, the digital companies that are not contributing as much as they should, the big polluters, pay what they should be paying. this plan, madam president of the commission, is economically sound because we need this investment, is politically feasible, as you will see tomorrow when you count the votes. it’s feasible to be ambitious, it’s feasible to have an ambitious plan, and it’s financially possible because our citizens are looking for good investment vehicles into the future. there is demand for such an investment vehicle. seventy years ago, mr robert schuman said ‘we need to make europe in the concrete’. this is the moment to give the concrete steps, but ambitious steps, to build europe forward.
mr president, the crisis has blown up the debate on the multiannual financial perspective, just as we were doing just a few months ago. the budget of the european commission will no longer be just the budget of the european commission, it will also be the resources which will ultimately support the reconstruction fund and the european bonds which have to finance this fund. the budget must therefore make a giant leap of at least 2% of european gdp. the typical and exhausting debates about whether the commission's budget should be a little over or a little under 1% have been ridiculously pulverized by circumstances, and this brings us to an even bigger debate. how could the commission have a budget of this magnitude without new own resources other than the present ones? many members have repeated this in the house today. is it not time to raise taxes of our own? not just own taxes within the framework of own resources, beyond customs duties and the vat rate; taxes consistent with the new european green deal, taxes which will help us to reduce inequalities, indeed, or perhaps by raising at european level some taxes which already work today at state level in some countries. the coronavirus crisis has therefore opened the door wide to a debate that has been too silent until now: the need to build a true european tax system. this parliament must lead this debate. the european council will not do that. it's now or never.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the next mff is crucial for the post-crisis recovery of our economies and needs to be ambitious and of the right size. the commission's recovery fund is also necessary in view of the gravity of the crisis, but it cannot be at the expense of traditional union policies, which have repeatedly proven their usefulness. the cohesion policy and the agricultural policy must therefore be strengthened. cohesion policy is the eu's most important investment tool, from which all member states benefit. maintain the recently introduced flexibility in the use of cohesion support, at least for the first years of the new mff. as the hungarian representative, i will pay particular attention to the fair distribution of funds. hungary has achieved outstanding performance in economic recovery in recent years, with growth of around 5%. we're now also leading the way in managing the epidemic, mobilizing the third largest proportion of resources, creating new jobs for every job lost. i hope that this great work is not detrimental to the eu. please ensure that there is no moral hazard in the allocation of resources, and that neither the mff nor the recovery fund reward irresponsible management or the circumvention of the epidemic. the aim should be to provide assistance to each member state according to its needs and merits.
chairman, after the lockdown, back out. and what's the best way out? there are three choices. first, a recovery for all. the euro crisis teaches us that a problem for one country is a problem for all countries. so don't put off problems until later. it is time for joint loans and mutual aid so that every country can emerge from the crisis. that is why parliament's resolution is so good. secondly, a sustainable recovery that does not focus on profits but on people and the environment. so let's legislate that no investment from the recovery fund should harm people or the environment. and third, the strongest shoulders, the heaviest loads. this calls for an end to tax evasion, including within the european union. this also requires a contribution to the internal market from the largest companies, a contribution to the european union's own resources. that's three choices for the best way out.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to address four points in my speech. firstly, i would like to emphasise very strongly that cohesion policy must continue as it is, because this is the most effective way of balancing the level of development between the individual countries and regions. second, the cap and farmers have ensured food security for europeans during the pandemic. not only must this policy be continued, but it must also be strengthened, including in financial terms, especially as farmers are to be subject to additional obligations. thirdly, the eu's economic reconstruction fund must be a grant rather than a loan, because some countries, particularly in southern europe, are already unable to take on more debt. finally, fourthly, the commission is to be commended for its rapid decision-making on public aid in individual countries, but i would point out that this aid is so varied that it threatens the common market of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 70 years ago schuman set the union on its feet after a cruel war that divided us. today the enemy is a virus. at first we reacted late and individually, but today the important thing is that we have learned. we are all here together, breaking down physical and ideological boundaries, passing a resolution that meets what the citizens expect of us: unity and not division. that is the message we are sending to the commission and the council. the pandemic leaves us in mourning for the loss of thousands of loved ones. it leaves millions unemployed, destroying smes, all of which are key to europe's development. we must therefore bear in mind that our resolution benefits and is the responsibility of each and every european. this requires us to be responsible in the use of resources. your destiny is to lead europeans forward and leave no one behind. we must not allow particular political agendas to be implemented. the recovery plan must serve to lift europe up to the new reality, the union of the 21st century. covid-19 has become a transformation accelerator. let us face the reindustrialisation of europe. we will lead the digital transition. we stand for agriculture, tourism, the green economy and the strength of our health systems and our health workers, without ever giving up freedom, equality and solidarity. let us make sure that citizens regain their pride in belonging to a europe which protects them and guarantees their development. if 70 years ago schuman did it, today we must do it too.
in writing. government measures and their increased powers, in the time of the corona crisis, must not be abused by governments. and that's in no eu country, including hungary. it is essential that the eu monitors any attempt by a member state to restrict the freedom of citizens and their fundamental rights. especially in countries that have long sounded the warning signals of non-compliance with democratic rules. parliament must have the power to end the state of emergency. the international agreements remain in force. powers shall be clearly defined and not be deliberately defined to provide the widest possible room for manoeuvre in the exercise of power. i consider particularly dangerous the benevolent and arbitrary criminalization of citizens, or the journalistic community, without the possibility of adequately defending themselves at a specific time.
in writing. – while the parliament has still failed to restore its legitimate functioning, it is now arbitrarily extending the scope of the procedures for which it is supposed to have a mandate. the current functioning of the european parliament is based on a bureau decision with limited scope to urgency procedures. deviation from the order of ordinary plenary sessions is also only possible on the grounds of urgency, ensuring the possibility for the president to convene extraordinary sessions of the parliament. commission proposals on the pandemic, discharge and other decisions related to the budgetary power of the parliament do require an urgency procedure. it should be noted however that the extension of the scope of the urgency procedures beyond these is strictly unlawful and would be even if, provided, but not allowed, the bureau decision on the current functioning and the electronic voting system gave a legitimate mandate for the parliament to operate. fisheries partnership agreement, dactyloscopic data exchange in the united kingdom, just to name a few examples, do not meet the criteria of the urgency procedure hence does not fall within the scope of the operation allegedly provided for by the bureau decision allowing the electronic voting system.
in writing. it was regrettable to hear meps today hurling accusations and slander against hungary. viktor orbán has a parliamentary backing of more than two thirds 137 out of 190, which has granted him special powers for an effective fight against the pandemic, which is being a success. it is sarcastic to hear such accusations from the mouth of a spanish socialist. a member of pedro sánchez's psoe, allied with the communists of podemos, who trample on every democratic guarantee, watch, threaten and persecute critical opinions and use the police for political intimidation. with a fragile minority, he has to govern with separatists, coup plotters and philoterrorists. spain suffers the worst death rate per capita in the world, with 40,000 dead already, partly concealed by the government. and 50,000 infected sanitation workers, the result of failure and incompetence. the socialist-communist government, with links to dictatorships in venezuela and cuba and links to the colombian farc drug-trafficking terrorist organisation, is dismantling democracy in spain and building a cage. compare hungary and spain today, both in democratic freedoms and in the fight against the coronavirus, and you will see that where the commission has to be alarmed is not in budapest, it is in madrid.
mr president, on this 70th anniversary of the founding of the union - our project - europe is facing its most difficult situation since 1950. the coronavirus pandemic is just the latest in a long list of challenges we've faced over the past decade. from climate change to the new geopolitics, to digitization, to brexit, to the election of trump as president of the united states. it is true that schuman said in his declaration - and it has been widely recalled - that europe would not be made all at once, but through the creation of de facto solidarities. but he also said - and it must be said at the same time - that the ecsc was the first step towards a european federation. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has now taken the initiative to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment. so this is not a time for small steps, but for a big step forward. it is time to respond to the triple public health, economic and institutional crisis with three unions: health, financial and political.
in writing. on the 70th anniversary of the founding of the eu, we are facing the most difficult situation since 1950. the coronavirus pandemic leaves us with thousands of deaths and an economic depression unlike any since 1929, adding to the challenges we've faced in the last decade: climate change, aggressive geopolitics, migration crises, digital challenge, brexit and the election of trump in the us, among others. in these seven decades, europe has experienced the longest period of peace and prosperity, with the world's largest and most integrated internal market, the euro and a series of collective investment policies that have guaranteed political freedom, economic progress and social well-being. on 9 may 1950, robert schuman said that europe 'would not be made all at once, but by creating de facto solidarities' but he also said that the ecsc was the first stage 'for a european federation', a historic mission which we must complete. europe must therefore equip itself with new instruments to address the three crises we are experiencing at the moment: public health, economic and political crises that we can only address through a european health, financial and political union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is worth recalling that vaccines are a health solution which is needed for a prevention policy, they are medicines which are used for healthy people, not for the sick, and therefore for the majority of the population. so not only do they have to be effective, but they have to be absolutely safe, have no side effects, and be created and distributed in large quantities throughout the population. their development therefore requires very long periods of research, production and distribution and therefore they are not a solution to the immediate urgency we have at the moment. we are in the middle of a pandemic crisis right now and there are thousands of people dying in the european union. $7.4 billion raised? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, this is happening with the obstacle, with the resistance of the pharmaceutical industry, which is clearly not interested in this therapeutic solution. president, this is a scandal! we have the solution at our fingertips, we can treat people who are dying and we can save our economy with this solution, but we absolutely must stop the pharmaceutical companies from making their own private profit. we must instead safeguard the general interest.
madam president, colleagues, this may, 40 years ago, the world was freed from smallpox thanks to another global effort of ten years and more than 500 million vaccines. covid is the first crisis of globalization, it has gone around the world in just 115 days and this virus has shown us our fragility. so we need a vaccine and a treatment to give a definitive solution to this pandemic. i want to applaud the commission's leadership in securing over eur 7 billion to fund the development of the covid vaccine. it's the largest public-private, global healthcare collaboration project. it's time to be brave, but also generous. we cannot allow price wars, wars between countries, or wars between the public and the private. we have to do this together and we have to remove any barriers to access to vaccines, which should be available to everyone in every corner of the world. we have paid a heavy price for the relocation of production in a strategic sector such as health care, also in spain. we must focus on reindustrialising health and research in europe, and europe differs from the united states and china in having the best national public and universal health systems in the world. this is our great added value. this crisis therefore provides us with an opportunity to review and strengthen the european health system, to make it more resilient; and the european union must have more health competences to coordinate a single european health system quickly and efficiently. we must work for the european health union.
in writing. the development of new vaccines and therapies for covid-19 disease is critical for europe and also for its most vulnerable partners such as africa, as no country can overcome this pandemic on its own. international cooperation has added value and allows for the breaking down of bottlenecks and the anticipation of possible shortages of medicines and products. their development is being accelerated globally and research and innovation is being supported. we need global coordinated action to achieve innovative actions and to launch a message of unity and solidarity. there are currently eight vaccines in clinical trials in humans, three of which are receiving european funding through horizon 2020. the european medicines agency has also stepped up its response to this pandemic, coordinating a european clinical trial network, providing free scientific advice and pooling data on treatments that, while requiring more trials, have received much publicity such as hydroxychloroquine and remdesivir. moreover, once new treatments and vaccines are developed, we need fast, equitable, fairly priced access that is accessible worldwide, for which the joint procurement mechanism put in place by the eu will be of particular relevance and must be strengthened, involving all responsible parties.
in writing. since the onset of the health crisis, it has become clear that no country can fight the pandemic alone. containment measures have so far proved effective in slowing the spread of the virus, but they will not eradicate it. this requires further coordinated action in three areas: early diagnosis; targeted treatment for those who are sick; and a vaccine to ensure immunisation. the work of states and eu institutions needs to be coordinated to find an effective vaccine and treatment to tackle the coronavirus. we must also involve the private and public sectors. the international donors' conference organised by the commission was a good example, with over €7.4 billion raised. we need to send a strong message about the need for a future vaccine that is universal, free, fair, equitable and fast. at european level, the joint procurement mechanism is the tool to ensure this. finally, the eu must take the lead globally in ensuring universal and free access to the vaccine and future treatments. the vaccine cannot be a new source of inequality, nor should it be used as an instrument of geopolitical competition. we need to cooperate where some want to compete.
in writing. since the onset of the health crisis, it has become clear that no country can fight the pandemic alone. containment measures have so far proved effective in slowing the spread of the virus, but they will not eradicate it. this requires further coordinated action in three areas: early diagnosis; targeted treatment for the sick and a vaccine to ensure immunisation. the work of member states and eu institutions needs to be coordinated to find an effective vaccine and treatment to tackle the coronavirus. we must not only join forces between states and european institutions, but also between the private and public sectors. we need to send a strong message about the need for a future vaccine that is universal, free, fair, equitable and fast. at european level, the joint procurement mechanism is the tool to ensure that this is the case. finally, the eu must take the lead globally in ensuring universal and free access to the vaccine and future treatments. the vaccine cannot be a new source of inequality, nor should it be used as an instrument of geopolitical competition. we need to cooperate where some want to compete.
in writing. since the onset of the health crisis, it has become clear that no country can fight the pandemic alone. containment measures have proven effective in slowing the spread of the virus, but they will not eradicate it. this requires coordinated action by the union and the member states in three areas: early diagnosis; targeted treatments and a vaccine to ensure immunisation. in addition, we must not only join forces between states and european institutions, but also between the private and public sectors. the international donors' conference organised by the european commission was a good example and managed to raise over eur 7.4 billion in total. but we need to send a message about the need for a future vaccine that is universal, free, fair, equitable and fast. at european level, the joint procurement mechanism is the tool to ensure that this is the case. finally, the eu must take the lead globally in ensuring universal and free access to the future vaccine and to the treatments that are obtained. the vaccine cannot be a new source of inequality and it should not be used as an instrument of geopolitical competition. we need to cooperate where some want to compete.
in writing. since the onset of the health crisis, it has become clear that no country can fight the pandemic alone. containment measures have proven effective in slowing the spread of the virus, but they will not eradicate it. this requires further coordinated action in three areas: early diagnosis, targeted treatment for the sick and a vaccine to ensure immunisation. in this regard, the work of member states and eu institutions needs to be coordinated to find an effective vaccine and treatment to tackle the coronavirus. so are the private sector and the public sector. the international donors' conference organised by the european commission was a good example of the way forward, with over €7.4 billion collectively raised. but we need to send a strong message about the need for a future vaccine that is universal, free, fair, equitable and fast. finally, the eu must take the lead globally in ensuring universal and free access to the vaccine and future treatments. the vaccine cannot be a new source of inequality, nor should it be used as an instrument of geopolitical competition.
mr president, these days europeans are finally leaving our homes with caution. we've been responsible and the health situation is improving. but the economic situation is dire. those who live off a small shop, a small business or transportation do not know if they will have a job at the end of the month. time is of the essence. as we discuss the commission's proposal, millions of european citizens are fearing for their future. we welcome, commissioners, that the european commission has taken up what the european parliament asked of it a few weeks ago. the european union will issue debt jointly to finance an ambitious economic recovery plan. but, madam president, commissioners, i want to call for responsibility and also call for responsibility from the member states. this plan is urgent. every day that passes, more than two thousand businesses close their doors forever in my country. every day we waste in fruitless arguments will be measured in lost jobs and truncated lives. act now, let's all act now and make this plan a reality. the europeans are watching us and we cannot let them down. this is the moment of the union and the future of the union depends on us.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, what european arrogance is being heard here. how good we europeans are. how bad. what a great opportunity to do a great campaign, a great anti-american operation, which we love so much. i'm going to read you something written and spoken by a european. for a european today, a european who has allies in this house and who has a member of his party in this house. it is: "they are beasts, scavenger beasts, vipers, hyenas, beasts in human form that distill hatred, a disturbed, nauseating, like denture with green, against everything that represents the language, the catalan language". this is coming from torra. torra is the president of the general staff. mr torra is the chairman of mr puigdemont's party, which is here in this house. torra is an ally of president sánchez's government within what is the current legislature. allied with the communists, allied with the socialists. a racist who is ruling part of spain against the spanish. that's what happens in europe, you don't have to go to america. in america we have had a very tragic chapter. on may 25th, a black man died, a black man who had run away from the police, who had a lot of records, who had been in prison... that black man died, and all of a sudden it's unleashed a wave of racism, of racism against the american system. a wave of hatred towards what the american nation is, used politically against the united states and its president, against whom a terrifying fake news operation has been made. and now, another manipulation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recovery fund is a tool like no other. with over 750 billion euros, it is the very expression of a new era of solidarity in europe, and for this we have to thank the impulse of the italian government and the contribution of other states, such as spain, france and germany. the next european councils, if they have the courage to approve it, will make the history of the union. we know that some governments will oppose this, but any resistance or compromise to the downward trend is unacceptable, because it takes away valuable time. as our prime minister conte said in the chamber today, italy is ready, and we hope that europe is ready too and approves the "next generation eu" as soon as possible. european citizens and businesses deserve these resources to be available now, and we owe it to all those for whom every day can make a difference. solidarity has once again flowed through the veins of europe. now we just have to make sure it gets to his heart.
madam president, the european people's party has led and pushed forward in this parliament and in the commission the recovery plan with the largest european aid to combat covid-19, and we have done so with unity, solidarity and responsibility. now it's up to the council to live up to it. time is of the essence. at stake is the possibility that many who have closed their business will be able to reopen it. to this end, the governments of the member states must act swiftly and responsibly. european solidarity must be accompanied by ambitious national reforms, to make our economy more modern, competitive and sustainable; to make our national health systems more resilient; and to protect all families. defending the spanish people, being a patriot, means digitising and reindustrialising spain; it means knowing how to negotiate a cap that makes the countryside an opportunity; it means reviving the tourism sector. in short, creating jobs, which is the best social policy. this is the real europe, the one the pp defends, the spain we want.
madam president, the time is up. five months. the relationship between the united kingdom and the european union cannot be a mere free trade agreement. there are opportunities for a balance between rights and obligations in which we have to be clear that the priority is the protection of citizens and strategic activities. johnson is trying to undo commitments, and he's doing it by threatening no deal. it's important that there is. millions of people expect this: they live and work in the united kingdom, and their rights and activities will depend on these future relations. the learning from brexit and the reconstruction plan we make together must be a way of becoming a project that the citizens are willing to bet decisively on. there are positive aspects in the recommendations of this parliament: environmental standards, anti-dumping, protection of the primary sector or citizens' rights which we have managed to include explicitly; but we also see shortcomings. we cannot advance the european project unless we are an independent international actor. in these recommendations we risk ending up subordinate to johnson's international policy, that is to say, to trump's agenda. it's time to bet on a way of being and being in the world. then we'll have a future too.
madam president, we have the opportunity, we have the obligation, ladies and gentlemen, to make europe more democratic, more transparent, more efficient and closer to the citizens. twenty years ago - and mr verhofstadt will remember this very well - we began the last official debate on the future of europe with the laeken declaration. your honours have listed the various challenges we face; the pandemic is only the latest. madam president, you have seen the commission's position very clearly and parliament's position, supported by 80% of the house, including mr castaldo, who is not a member, supports us. what are you waiting for, ladies and gentlemen of the council? what are you waiting for? we have a position since january. it's been six months. we know that the council takes its time, that it is slower, but that seems excessive. i'm really asking you. we need the council to have a position and we need to be able to start this conference on the future of europe in september, and to do so - as mrs hübner has said - without excluding anyone, including, if necessary, the debate on the reform of the treaties.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, for months we have been hearing about data and abstract commitments: that tourism represents 10% of the european union's gdp, that it is a strategic sector for the union, that the commission is fully committed to the countries that depend on it most... but the european union cannot simply settle for that. we cannot simply receive recommendations knowing that they are not being followed by the rest of the member countries. why is the european commission calling on 13 may for an end to mandatory quarantines when other countries, such as spain, are imposing their own quarantines? why has the opening of borders occurred in an uncoordinated way, so that countries with similar epidemiological characteristics have differentiated and spaced the opening in the period of one month? why are some countries within the european union itself vetoing others? why does a sector which employs 22 million people and represents 12% of the total workforce in the union not receive a single euro cent as a budget line for tourism? that tourism is an absolutely secondary and relegated sector for the commission has been said in this house too many times, and unfortunately i fear we will continue to hear it. we have already said that with the crisis of the bankruptcy of thomas cook it was necessary, more than ever, to develop a common strategy which would allow us to anticipate misfortunes and not to improvise. and unfortunately, another disaster has come and improvised again. madam commissioner, as a spokesman for renew europe, as a citizens' mep and as a former president of the balearic islands government, a region absolutely linked to tourism, i have proposed our europe brand concept, based on three pillars: the opening of borders, common quality and safety standards and also the promotion of the european union as a tourist destination. commissioner, you have our full and absolute support in exercising the political leadership that the european union needs. we will always and at all times be at your side. for tourism and, above all, for europe and also for europeans.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the death of george floyd. we need to hear our green colleague speak about racist harassment. and today i want to remember the 20,000 deaths in the mediterranean since 2014, 53 deaths and disappearances just ten days ago. and that is that the european union needs to do its duty by respecting human rights on our territory and have the independence to demand accountability for all george floyds in the world. we need to strengthen governance structures so that we can have a foreign policy based on disarmament, based on mediation, the end of sanctions, multilateralism, the fight against climate change and gender equality. in hong kong this is done by defending the right to peaceful demonstration, as we have asked from chile to palestine, from ecuador to lebanon. to encourage dialogue, to respect the terms of the sino-british agreement, but also to denounce continued interference by trump or the british government. we must strive for a comprehensive relationship between the european union and china based on mutual cooperation, in which agreements but also differences can be discussed. as in all places in the world, we need more than a free trade agreement that leaves human rights on the sidelines.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr borrell, at the beginning of february you stated that the annexation of palestinian territories by israel could not happen without the opposition of the european union. as you know, before the pandemic was declared, i was in palestine as chairman of the delegation of this parliament and i have to tell you that, despite your clear opposition, that plan is being implemented step by step without any action being taken to hinder it. the latest decision announced by israel is the most serious yet. we are talking about the annexation of large parts of the west bank: one third of the west bank, including the jordan valley. an annexation that signifies the signing of the death certificate of a project that has been agonizing for decades: the two-state solution. of course, it is impossible not to wonder what the european union is doing. as we have said many times, his statements and declarations are impeccable, but time proves us right. your words are of little use if you don't get down to business. mr borrell, some questions i would like you to answer are: what is the european union waiting for in order to recognize the palestinian state? why is the association agreement not cancelled now, applying article 2? why is israel not prevented from participating in all programmes financed by the european union? why is there no arms embargo on the israeli regime? why is the trade in products from illegal settlements not prohibited? mr borrell, we must take steps to replace the law of the strongest with the law of protection of the weakest. the only empire that should exist is the empire of international law, peace with dignity and social justice.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is experiencing an unprecedented crisis of credibility. since the brexit victory in 2016, some member states and the union institutions have blamed their own lack of credibility on disinformation campaigns by external or internal actors, but they forget that disinformation does not only come from there and is not new. the lie has always existed and usually it has come from power. i want to remind you that in the first pages of the bible it is already told how the serpent deceived adam and eve to expel man from paradise, defying god. but are we talking about misinformation or are we talking about censorship and ending freedom of expression? i am very concerned that the commission is turning these data verification companies into the subjects of what is true and what is false. and i am concerned that they are also receiving public support, because they are nothing but private companies serving their own political or economic interests. the coronavirus crisis has taught us that no one is infallible. and here everybody has been misinformed, starting with china, the world health organization, the governments themselves and the media. to believe that the truth is going to be fabricated in this parliament is an unacceptable act of pride, like that of adam and eve.
madam president, one of the consequences of the digital revolution is that the mediating role of the media as independent filters of the quality of information has been dramatically reduced. disinformation appears in this vacuum and it is the vacuum that we have to fill, which raises the need to reconsider the responsibility of the platforms, the use of those technological tools that, with all the necessary caution, can help in the fight against fake news; and, of course, fact checking in terms of transparency and the role that all users must play. but it's also important that we look at home because we need a firm commitment from governments to truthful, transparent and credible information. the high representative has mentioned some outlandish and dangerous claims about bleach's disinfecting power. inventing reports from american universities and making up death figures, with contempt for reality, is also an exercise in disinformation.
mr president, the current pandemic has shown that the mobility of migrant workers in europe does not always respect equal treatment with nationals. i am referring to both intra-european workers and workers from third countries, such as temporary workers in the agricultural sector, who have contributed so much to the supply of basic products during this crisis. we have heard of cases of extreme, precarious working conditions and risks to their health and lives. it is therefore necessary to detect possible abuses and fraud, because, although they are minor, they are very bloody and damage the image of the sector and create unfair competition. it also occurs in other sectors where fraudulent labour brokers operate, who take workers in one country to take them to another in conditions of labour exploitation and unprotected, as was the case with spanish, romanian and bulgarian workers in the netherlands. europe cannot afford this. all workers without exception must enjoy equal treatment, social protection, decent working conditions and access to state aid, regardless of their country of origin or destination.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. hundreds of new cases of corona in a slaughterhouse in gütersloh. the first thing that comes to mind for the prime minister of north rhine-westphalia, armin laschet, is that the romanian and bulgarian workers themselves would have brought this about. i'm sorry, but that's not possible! first, because it serves an old xenophobic narrative, which is that foreigners bring diseases with them. secondly, because armin laschet is shielding himself from responsibility. in a united europe it is of course the responsibility of the prime minister of north rhine-westphalia to have an eye on the bulgarian and romanian workers as well. they often work in inhuman conditions for meager wages and are confined to mass housing. we need a european labour authority which can monitor and enforce the law. and if all that is not enough, we are not afraid to raise the standards here because we must put an end to this exploitation!
mr president, i would like to begin by acknowledging the great work of temporary workers in the field. this crisis has reminded us how fundamental they are. in spain, according to agricultural organizations, fruit harvests have not been able to be collected because of the coronavirus. 100 000 of these jobs have not been filled. jobs according to the law. that is why i am indignant that part of the socialist-communist government of my country, with absolute misinformation, accuses spanish farmers of slavery. this accusation only seeks to criminalize and damage the image of agriculture in spanish society, which considers it an example and a strategic sector, especially after seeing how it has avoided the shortage of our shops and supermarkets. and we cannot accept this accusation, especially coming from a government which, while 40,000 spaniards were dying - 20,000 of them elderly people in their homes without hospital support - and while 59,000 health workers and thousands of police and civil guards were infected, denied them the most basic security measures. instead of blaming our farmers, what the government should do is apologize. if anyone has the right to accuse, it is certainly the spanish people and their ineffable government.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, the amazon is under threat. land grabbing, logging and burning of forest to develop livestock or agricultural activities, illegal acquisition of property titles, along with mining, are responsible for its increasing deforestation and degradation. but what is the best strategy to reverse this situation that threatens the climate, biodiversity, but also the sustainable development of the amazonian countries and the right of their citizens to enjoy a dignified life? with constant reproaches and reprimands tinged with neo-colonial paternalism, or, on the contrary, by implementing a strategy thought out with respect, resources, commitment, cooperation and agreements? because, ladies and gentlemen, for our climate strategy to have a real global impact, we need partners to join it, and that can only be achieved on the basis of binding agreements. we must be vigilant in this parliament about the political actions of those governments in the region which are going in the wrong direction, but we must also acknowledge the efforts of the amazonian countries, which have signed the paris agreement, the leticia pact or the escazú agreement and which have developed national initiatives to combat this situation amid tremendous economic and social difficulties. we must also support civil society, indigenous peoples, environmentalists, that is, countries. because countries are not just their governments. they, like us, pass, but the problems persist, and only with instruments of real impact can we contribute to our shared goal. and the most powerful instrument we have is trade and association agreements. these are key to working with our partners on climate strategy, such as the eu-mercosur agreement, which includes a specific chapter on sustainable development and environmental protection, and which includes compliance with the paris agreement as a binding element. ladies and gentlemen, it will not be with ideological demagoguery that we will put out fires or curb illegal mining or deforestation or land grabbing, but with respect, resources, cooperation and agreements.
madam president, it is a well-established axiom that in these years of populist politics the lack of democratic quality is always accompanied by a clear disregard for environmental quality. we don't know populists who trash rights and yet are committed to the environment. always authoritarian tendencies present that facet of risk to natural resources. why would you do that? because what seems so new to us - the trumps, the bolsonaros, the orbans - is actually the latest disguise for ultra-liberal short-term economics. it is further proof of the dangerous assumption by conservatives of the far-right agenda and of that idea of an unlimited right to exploit natural resources, which every nationalist considers his own because they are within his borders, as if the environment and the consequences of environmental practices could be parcelled out like political maps. i have heard excellent examples of this kind of environmental nationalism here today. the amazon could be considered, surely without falling into a rhetorical abuse, as an environmental resource of all humanity surely like the arctic and like few spaces more of that scale, but it is also and above all a resource of its own current inhabitants, many of them indigenous and many of them also those who will have to live in brazil in the future, and both of them are being expropriated their rights through deforestation and land occupation by the bolsonaro government. the european union is therefore acting on environmental grounds and also to restore democratic quality and environmental quality to these citizens of the future of brazil. and i must tell my italian colleague that i shall be very happy to return to my constituency to say that, in speaking today about the amazon, i have spoken about the forest fires in extremadura.
in writing. the situation in brazil in relation to the management of the amazon rainforest and the covid-19 pandemic is very alarming. the coronavirus pandemic is endangering indigenous communities and is being used as a tool to distract the media and allow the adoption of legislation that dilutes the environmental protection of the jungle and environmental controls without any questioning. the eu must react strongly by legislating for deforestation-free chains. we need to fight for deforestation-free chains in the eu by implementing a system of 'deforestation-free import' certificates or efficient verification of 'deforestation-free export' certificates issued by exporting countries. the next mercosur agreement must also include a binding sustainable development chapter, which will enable the eu to act against brazil's breaches and abuses. proposals for legislation such as land grabbing must have a strong response from the international community.
mr president, chancellor, the eu’s problems are not only economic. certainly, you must face a crisis that will be hard. we need to prevent today’s inequalities and poverty, which are the sources of tomorrow’s conflicts. in a world where some blocs are ever readier to seek conflict, the eu must work to solve them. indeed, the eu’s problems are democratic as well. getting out of an economic crisis to enter into a crisis of civil rights and freedoms will not save europe. we need the economic recovery agenda to be linked to democratic consolidation. we must demand that countries where fundamental rights are questioned, as in the case of spain, respect the rule of law. ending the persecution of ideas, the arbitrary jailing of political dissidents, artists or journalists, is a moral and legal imperative that the eu can no longer avoid.
mr president, in spain, as we suffer the pain of the loss of thousands of citizens and face the worst economic and social crisis, the virus has made us aware of the urgent need to strengthen and modernise spain and europe. strong leadership is needed in europe now more than ever. the commission, the german presidency and chancellor merkel are a beacon of hope for millions of europeans because of their firm support for the recovery plan. the people's party applauds this presidency and we ask it to press ahead with the adoption of the plan in the council and the budget proposed by the commission, which will enable us to protect our health, to revive the economy in order to save the productive fabric and to create jobs, which is the best social policy. european solidarity must be accompanied by ambitious national reforms to make spain and europe more competitive and resilient, with an industrial, digital and sustainable economy, without ever giving up freedom and equality. the success of europe will be the failure of populism and nationalism. the next six months are crucial. the european people's party will be up to the task, as great democrats and europeans we are.
madam president, i would like to thank ms von der leyen and ms merkel for being here. ms merkel, i realise that securing an agreement on the massive recovery plan at your summit will feel like a huge achievement and a big relief. and it should be. you will have accomplished a level of fiscal integration that most of us hadn’t expected to see in our lifetimes. but i’m sorry to say that such an achievement will not be enough. as you have stated repeatedly, we need a repayment plan. without a plan to repay our debts, we will be postponing the problems we face now by seven years. 505 members of this parliament have proposed a solution, namely that the deal you reach now includes an own resource package that secures the financial future of europe, a system that is politically viable because it relies on big polluters and big tech contributing what they must. madam chancellor, please don’t kick this can down the road by seven years. please make it the objective of your presidency to leave europe with a system of own resources that makes its finances solid and its economy prosperous.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr vice-president, thank you for your good intentions. the criminals get 160 billion euros a year, 1% of the union's gross domestic product, and every year we taxpayers lose 825 billion in unpaid taxes and another 50 billion in vat fraud. this money laundering, unfortunately, goes largely unpunished. according to europol, 99% of the profits of criminals are not confiscated and remain at their disposal. we must remedy this problem if we are to build a more just society. recent scandals, such as the 'luanda leaks' or the murder of daphne caruana galizia, show that the member states are not doing enough and that europe is not leading in this field either. we therefore believe that the european commission must take a more ambitious approach and parliament approves this resolution by a large majority, with five demands that i would like to highlight. first, the creation of an anti-money laundering supervisor with sufficient resources. secondly, the creation of a european financial intelligence unit to eradicate the most sophisticated forms of evasion. thirdly, to use the european public prosecutor's office to fight against money laundering. to give the european central bank the power to withdraw banking licences in cases of money laundering. and fifth, to make the ownership records of the shadowy companies public and known to us. mr president, the commission must take the necessary steps along the path laid down by this parliament. criminals have profited from the lack of solutions for too long. mr. dombrovskis, it is time to act.
mr president, mr roth, minister of state, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu commission has put forward strong proposals, and the council of member states has also made considerable progress in the fight against money laundering. these proposals also have the support of parliament: common supervision, common stronger rules, but also an effective european financial police capable of cross-border investigations. but we should not turn a blind eye to the fact that the infringement procedures cannot hide the fact that, in the light of the implementation of the recent reforms of the money laundering directive, an old law dating back 13 years from the money laundering directive 3 is being broken in many member states including germany and that there are no infringement procedures against it. i therefore appeal to the european commission and the member states to finally implement the existing law, to initiate infringement proceedings not only when the letter of the law is not complied with, but when money laundering is actually taking place in the real world. the commission has not yet fully complied with its obligations in this respect. more speed, more pressure, commissioner!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism must become a strategic challenge for the european union and cannot be separated from the fight against other criminal activities such as corruption, trafficking in arms, drugs and human beings, and tax evasion and fraud. where rules and supervision are less stringent, individuals and criminal groups are allowed to pollute the economic and financial system, already strained by the effects of the pandemic, with illicit proceeds. we cannot allow divergent interpretations or inadequate and uneven application of european law in this area in certain member states. the existence of european tax havens attracting companies and capital, undermining the fairness of the internal market and distorting competition is intolerable. the implementation of a prevention policy must be comprehensive, identifying high-risk jurisdictions, harmonising different legal systems and strengthening tools for sharing information on beneficial ownership of companies and financial transactions, in order to target the proceeds of crime and the assets of organised crime.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the money laundering cases in the european financial system in recent years show that we still make it far too easy for money launderers. i would like to mention two very specific problems: firstly, the lack of implementation has already been mentioned. last week, commissioner, you opened infringement proceedings against three member states for the implementation of the fourth directive. i do not want to talk about the state of play with regard to the fifth. secondly, it is a directive. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the second problem, which i want to address here quite openly, is, of course, that communication between the authorities back and front is not working. we are also experiencing this in germany, where supervisory and investigating authorities have difficulties - i will say this very abstractly - in cooperating with each other in concrete terms. recent cases prove it. the things have been identified, we are now really waiting for proposals from the commission: a central authority with investigative powers and regulations instead of directives. otherwise we will have to have the same debate year after year.
mr president, this debate on combating money laundering is certainly very reminiscent of the debates on combating tax havens, tax evasion and tax avoidance, areas on which there is very broad agreement in parliament, in the commission and in the council. an agreement strongly supported by the citizens of the whole of europe who believe that it is not acceptable for us to continue with these legal loopholes in our tax systems. but while there is this broad consensus, we are not able to put forward new initiatives, to comply with the directives we have adopted or to have efficient coordination between the states, and we contribute to the frustration of european citizens. i therefore believe that it is time not only to look at how directives are transposed or not, but to use community legislation, regulations in this area, to avoid any kind of indiscretion, a regulation that has a common european supervisor that also imposes sanctions that are clearly disincentive to this kind of behaviour.
(start of the intervention off the record) ... most serious: 1% of the union's gross domestic product in financial activities suspected of money laundering stemming from corruption and organised crime, including terrorism. i therefore fully support the commission's action plan, the first objective of which is the implementation of the fifth directive, which is in force and needs to be not only implemented, transposed, but applied by the member states. the second objective is supervision, with a single supervisor who puts all the financial reporting units in touch. the third objective is harmonization, and thus the transition from a directive to a regulation, which ensures uniform compliance with european law by the member states. the fourth is international cooperation, which must be strengthened in a situation as serious as this. the fifth is training and, of course, ensuring that the beneficiaries of money laundered through corruption and organised crime are identified. only in this way will we really achieve the purpose of this resolution, which is to support the commission in demanding that the member states implement the fifth directive as soon as possible.
mr. president, i have to go. there is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that money laundering and the financing of terrorism must be tackled by all means possible. we cannot allow commercial, even cross-border, crime to run free. the question is, what is the most effective way to achieve this goal? over the past few years, we've been putting together a set of eu rules. some of them have just come into force, so we don't have any practical experience of how they work. serious financial scandals have happened before, not under the current legal framework. i also have doubts about the transfer of supervisory functions to new eu-level institutions. such a move would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, since it would reduce national competences in an area where strengthening national authorities and better cooperation between member states could provide an adequate response to the challenges. parliament likes to run ahead, although perhaps with a little thought we could achieve more in practice in this fight. despite my reservations, i believe that the further development of the system for combating money laundering and terrorist financing is an objective that should be supported. that's why i'm going to support it with my vote, with my fellow mps, with my fellow mps from the hungarian people's party.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of the european commission, i would like to thank the european parliament for taking time to debate this important matter and for your commitment to further strengthening our defensive tools against money laundering and terrorist financing. we need to act upon all findings and be ambitious in our efforts to make the european union more effective in preventing damage to the integrity and reputation of the union’s financial system. many points were raised in this debate on effective implementation of current rules. indeed, it’s one of the work directions, so more effective implementation, strengthening preventive capacity on transposition of anti—money laundering directives. the commission has made very clear, including to member states, that we are going to be very assertive about proper and timely transposition of these directives and also, on the way forward, that we need to move away from directives to regulations, at least in a substantial part of the legislation, which will allow for more effective direct enforcement at eu level, and we need eu—level supervisors. my thanks to all the colleagues who were supporting those points. there is the question which was raised by several colleagues on taxation and, indeed, the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance often goes hand in hand with the fight against money laundering. next week, the european commission will come with a new set of measures to strengthen our framework dealing with tax evasion and tax avoidance, so the tax package will be presented by the commission next week. we are also looking at the scope of operators subject to anti-money laundering rules and there, at the very minimum, we need to include virtual asset service providers, just to give you some examples. in any case, the european commission remains committed to the fight against money laundering. we see it as a priority and we thank the european parliament for the strong support you are providing.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am glad to take this from our debate: we must do more to combat money laundering and terrorism. we are all in agreement on this in principle, with a few exceptions, which i will come to shortly. we need more transparency, we need more regulation and we need more control. i think it's worthwhile that we really consider seriously every proposal that's on the table, to simply and poignantly improve. i am also very grateful to the members who have once again pointed out the financial dimensions of money laundering: 1% of gross domestic product, possible tax losses of 8%. let me be clear, this is not a case of chivalry. i'll give you one hint. i am here for the first time, i don't know if this is common, but i have to break a spear for a committed, critical civil society that is part of a living democracy. now, not all of us like what ngos say. but that too is a sign of a living democracy. i am afraid that the impression is being given that critical ngos, which some honourable members may not like, also have something to do with highly criminal schemes such as money laundering or the fight against terrorism. this is murder! this is a murder case! this is about drug offenses! they have nothing, if anything, to do with the critical engagement of ngos in the european union.
the debate is closed. in accordance with rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, two motions for resolutions have been tabled. the vote on the amendments will take place tomorrow, thursday 9 july 2020, and the final vote will take place on friday 10 july 2020. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. despite the adoption of the fourth and fifth anti-money laundering directives and the directive on combating money laundering through criminal law, the legislative, institutional and regulatory landscape in the eu on anti-money laundering and countering terrorist financing remains fragmented, thus providing an incentive for businesses to register where the rules are less stringent and generating disparities in interpretation and practice across member states. the commission's communication on an action plan for an integrated union policy in this area must therefore be welcomed and must be followed up urgently, also in view of the danger, as highlighted by europol, that organised criminal groups will exploit the current economic uncertainty to launder money through the on-shore financial system. a single body of rules should therefore be established, including the transposition of the provisions of the anti-money laundering directive into a regulation; to establish an eu-level aml/cft supervisory authority and a european support and coordination mechanism for fius; ensure effective cooperation and exchange of information between them and the law enforcement authorities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. i thank the european commission for its action plan on a comprehensive union policy to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. we need such a comprehensive policy a strengthened legislative framework on money laundering and terrorist financing to protect the financial system of the european union. it is essential that this framework is applied in the same way in all member states. this is why the control of the implementation of the money laundering directives must be strengthened. i hope that the european commission will soon translate some of them into a regulation, so that we can harmonise the rules for everyone and close the 'loopholes' in our legislation that criminals use to abuse our financial system. we are calling for a stronger role for our joint police force, europol, and its newly created european centre for financial and economic crime. at the same time, it is important that the newly created european public prosecutor's office starts working as soon as possible and we encourage all eu member states to join it. effective action against money laundering and terrorist financing will increase the security and confidence of our citizens in the financial system.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the eu public health strategy for the post-covid-19 pandemic (2020/2691 ((rsp)). i would like to point out once again that there are no blue cards or spontaneous statements in this debate.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are all dealing with a health emergency that is having a massive impact on our societies and our populations. we are also thinking of the more than 100 000 europeans who have died from covid-19. we are discussing very intensively in these weeks what we can learn from this serious crisis for our health system and for coordination within the european union in the context of an effective and, as far as possible, preventive response to the pandemic. we are also talking, of course, about the massive social and economic consequences. last but not least, the chancellor has made it clear once again that this is one of the major priorities of the german presidency of the council of the european union, and i am sure that we all, including here in the european parliament, share this commitment to do everything possible to ensure that we emerge from this serious crisis as quickly as possible, in the strongest possible solidarity and as united as possible. i would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to the nursing and health care workers who have done so much to protect lives and provide the best possible care for patients in these difficult and dramatic times. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. we must speak openly about what has been successful, but we must also speak openly about what has failed and what was our weakness, especially at the beginning of the fight against the pandemic. only then will we be able to respond better, faster and more comprehensively to another crisis in the future, and we all know that this crisis is far from over. we are still dealing with a very volatile situation. in some countries, the crisis, the pandemic, has been contained by a dedicated approach. but in europe, and in our immediate neighbourhood, we are also experiencing that nothing is safe. we must therefore be vigilant, and this is of course always accompanied by a reduction in the population in liberal democracies such as ours. this is another subject which has been the subject of intense debate here in the european parliament, but also in the member states: how can we protect the health of citizens without disproportionately restricting the freedoms and constitutional rights of citizens? the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take appropriate measures to prevent the spread of the disease. i would like to thank you once again for the great interest and commitment you all have shown in this matter. globally, and not just in europe, the pandemic continues to spread faster. we have about 200,000 new cases every day worldwide, and we all know -- this is obvious -- that a global crisis of this magnitude requires global responses. no country, no matter how good its health system, can fight this pandemic alone. it is also clear that a policy of national isolation, a policy of small states, a policy which weakens europe and the european union, always involves unacceptable risks to the health of our citizens. it is a very painful experience, ladies and gentlemen, but perhaps it also encourages us to work together even better than we have done so far in a spirit of solidarity and shared responsibility to overcome the pandemic. this means that we have a lot of work to do, because we cannot successfully tackle the economic crisis until we have also tackled the virus in the long term. a comprehensive and successful strategy to overcome the pandemic for europe and, of course, for the world requires the development of safe and effective vaccines and therapies, and equal access to them. the only way to defeat the pandemic once and for all is to eradicate it everywhere. the only lasting solution to this problem is science and solidarity. the european union is committed to ensuring that newly developed vaccines against covid-19 become a shared, public, global commodity available to all those who need them. what we need is a vaccine for europe as well as the rest of the world. there can be no cannibalism here, everyone against everyone, but we must all stand together. here again, we all have a duty to protect the health of people, wherever they live, in europe or elsewhere in the world. i am very pleased that the european union, together with its international partners, has joined forces in the global crisis response initiative. a record €16 billion - this is as of 30 june - has now been raised to accelerate the development, manufacture and delivery of covid-19 vaccines. because we have to act decisively so that we can take the next steps. so we need safe and effective vaccines, and we need to encourage mass production of vaccines so that we can really have equal access for all people. in this context, i would like to thank the european commission for its recent legislative proposal to allow rapid clinical trials of covid-19 vaccines and therapies, and i would also like to thank the european parliament for its decision to take a position on this dossier today. i am pleased to inform you that the council approved this dossier last friday. as regards the components of the future european union strategy on public health, the commission has recently proposed an ambitious eu for health programme as part of the multiannual financial framework and the building package. it reiterates the need to give health a higher priority in the european union and to be better prepared for health crises. one thing the crisis has shown us is that quality health care is still a great protection for our people against such a pandemic. that is why we give this dossier a very high priority in the council and we hope that with your support we can adopt this dossier at the end of the year. we look forward to working very closely and in confidence with you on this important proposal. it is also crucial that we improve the availability of medicines, medical devices and other crisis-related goods in the union. you know how that started at the beginning of the crisis. it was not ideal, but i think that we as the european union and the member states have drawn the right conclusions from it. the covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated the problems resulting from the european union's dependence on third countries for the manufacture of pharmaceutical active substances, raw materials, medicines and medical devices. we are not trying to unravel the mystery of globalisation. but we must ensure that we can, with our own european strength, ensure that the key goods that guarantee the protection of the citizens of the european union are also produced in the european union - that is european sovereignty. we must also be better able to deal with these crises, to gather information, to assess assessments and then to act quickly in the event of a crisis. close cooperation is essential between the member states and the institutions, bodies and agencies of the european union, such as the european centre for disease prevention and control or the european medicines agency, and with international organisations such as the world health organisation. one of our objectives is to strengthen and extend the way in which these european institutions and agencies operate. the eu for health programme should focus on the lessons learned from the pandemic, while supporting longer-term projects. it should focus on the availability of medicines, vaccines and medical devices, the reduction of antimicrobial resistant infections and the eu's role in global health policy. the programme will also help to implement the eu's medicines strategy and the european plan to combat cancer, which the commission intends to adopt by the end of the year. the coronavirus crisis has painfully reminded us once again that we need to expand our digital capabilities in healthcare. we need to overcome the fragmentation of health data and improve eu-wide implementation within the health system. in their recent conclusions on shaping europe's digital future, the members of the council called for the creation of a european health data space. i would also like to remind you of the controversial debate on an eu-wide app that can be used everywhere to protect people even better, and there is also room for improvement, as you all know as well as i do. equally important is the fact that investments in health are also made possible through other instruments of the multiannual financial framework. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. one thing is clear: health will be a key area of activity at the european union level in the future, and i do not think that this is at all painful for the member states, because the pandemic has shown that we need more europe here too, a europe that is more capable of acting, because this is in the interests of the citizens. and the covid-19 pandemic has also given us an opportunity to reflect on what actions we need to take to overcome the current pandemic and prevent future health risks. together we can make the european union and the world a healthier and safer place. many eyes are on us, and we should show that liberal, democratically constituted societies are capable of handling well such serious crises that lead to existential hardship for many people, and that our primary objective is to protect people in the european union, but also to provide solidarity on a global level.
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate comes at a key moment for our management of what is the most severe health crisis of modern times. today we meet as countries relax restrictions and open up for travel: a chance for people and our economies to breathe after months of lockdown. but this is an opening which comes, as we all know, with considerable risk. whilst no one knows with certainty how the coming weeks and months will develop and while it is still too early to speak about life ‘post-covid’ (i speak of the ‘new normal’), it is certainly the right time for us all to reflect. we need to reflect on the painful lessons we are learning. we need to reflect on the areas we need to improve and where our actions should be strengthened to protect the eu from future cross-border health threats. and we need to reflect on what the eu’s role in health policy should be more broadly, in respect of member states’ responsibility for their health policy enshrined in the treaty. next week, on 15 july, we will present an action plan setting out a number of immediate short-term actions to help eu member states prepare for and manage possible new outbreaks of covid-19. i want to be absolutely clear: a full-blown second wave is, unfortunately, not inevitable. it is, however, up to us to control it and prepare, if and when it comes. our actions should focus on reducing the burden on health systems, particularly if new outbreaks coincide with the influenza season in the autumn and winter. covid-19 has shown us very clearly that a united approach is critical, but that we must also strengthen the eu’s current preparedness and response mechanisms to better protect the health of our citizens. many, including members of this house, and our citizens, have called and are calling for a stronger role for the eu on health. i cannot but agree, and say that i stand ready to work on this together. as a first step, we should increase our capacity to support member states. this will require stronger and more operational eu agencies. in the coming months we will be proposing to strengthen the european centre for disease prevention and control, to improve its coordination capacities and its mandate to respond to health crises. we will also be proposing to strengthen the european medicines agency to ensure it can effectively coordinate our actions in preventing medicine shortages. we also want to look at how to strengthen our eu framework on cross border health threats. beyond the immediate priorities, now is also the right moment to reflect on the eu’s competences in the area of public health, and its limitations. i, for one, have, from the very beginning, said that we need more europe in the area of public health. the conference on the future of europe provides an excellent forum to really debate this, whether we need to look again at who does what between the national and the european level, and particularly so as regards threats that touch us all, regardless of borders. even within the deepest crisis, however, come opportunities – opportunities from what we have learned. strengthening the strategic autonomy of our health and pharmaceutical systems is a case in point from the current crisis. with our proposed eu4health programme and the unprecedented eur 9.4 billion envelope we proposed, we send a very clear message that public health is a priority area for our recovery, that we have been listening to citizens, that targeted investment in crisis preparedness and stronger health systems for the future is key. what is now required is very close cooperation and a swift agreement between parliament and the council in the coming weeks and months to ensure it can be delivered. i fully count on your support to take the ambition forward. in parallel, and i am very aware of the importance, our new pharmaceutical strategy will be coming later this year – an opportunity for us to ensure and reinforce the strategic autonomy of our pharmaceutical sector and ensure access and affordability of essential medicines for our citizens. i have been in contact with stakeholders for this strategy over the last few weeks. the next six months are critical. now is not the time to let our guard down. the situation remains very fragile, and we see this in a number of member states. stable numbers change very quickly. a safe and effective vaccine likely remains the only permanent solution to this pandemic, but this is still some time away. together with the member states, we are fully engaged in negotiations with vaccine manufacturers to ensure access to vaccines when they become available. we will ensure that the eu continues to play a leading role in international efforts to develop, manufacture and deploy a universally-accessible vaccine for all member states of the eu, leaving no one behind, and for the world. we are not going to say ‘us first’. we will continue to support countries inside and outside the eu to protect all people from new outbreaks, especially the most vulnerable. solidarity will remain key, because it saves lives. and here i just want add that from the beginning of this pandemic, i have held over 26-27 meetings with all the health ministers and i am in constant communication with them, because this is the only way that we can build up this level of coordination, consensus and working together so we can deal with what it means to move forward. we need to pool resources, we need to tackle jointly the issues that affect all of us. this is the first and possibly the most important lesson learned from this crisis: we need to respond to the expectations of our citizens, ensuring a stronger role for the eu when citizens’ health is at stake from threats – threats which do not stop at national borders. and we all have a collective duty to ensure that.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in march/april, at the beginning of the pandemic, i went back to practice, like many members of the medical profession. and the first thing i noticed when i asked my colleagues was that we didn't have masks. i had to look into the throats of patients with fever and cough, unable to protect myself. it was a mixed feeling for me. for many nurses and doctors in bergamo and madrid, this meant that they had been infected and that they were no longer alive today. this is one of many examples where we simply need to get better: we can't be so dependent on china and others when it comes to vital things for our health. i am therefore very pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss this resolution today. i would like to thank mr manfred weber for being here and for helping us to have this resolution, and i would also like to thank the members for their good cooperation. mr president-in-office, we support the priorities of the german presidency and the proposals of the european commission. we want to achieve a lot together in the coming months, but we also want to see more european involvement in health in the long term. the member states have often said in the past, in a way of reflection: health is national, europe should stay out of it. that was always wrong, and it's even more wrong now. a virus and other health threats don't stop at the border. that is why we need a european health union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a pharmacist i expected this resolution on public health to be a technical document, with details of how to deal with this pandemic. and no: it speaks to us of new bodies, new institutions... another attempt by parliament to increase the power of brussels and take more sovereignty away from our nations. they repeat words without substance: green pact, ecological transition, gender equality, resilience, etc. mantras that numb the conscience, in order to impose a new world order, which mrs merkel has just mentioned in her speech today. a new world order or a new normal (as they now call it), which only serves supranational interests. however, our needs are different. in this health crisis, we need clear, precise, immediate protocols of action that really protect us from future outbreaks, from potential new viruses. i would remind you that the union is not here to replace the member states, but to facilitate free, voluntary and, above all, sensible cooperation. only then will europe be stronger; only then will we emerge from this crisis.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank all the other co-authors in advance for their good cooperation. the text of the joint resolution presented this time really reflects broad agreement across the political spectrum. today we face an unprecedented situation and from this must also emerge new unprecedented solutions. the old guidelines and the tired business as usual are not going to help us now, we need a fundamental reform. healthcare on the premises of the european institutions has always been such an ashtray, as evidenced by the fact that it is carried out by about 10 people on the premises of the european parliament, all of whom know each other well. the covid-19 pandemic has exposed the fact that the eu currently lacks strong tools and competences to address emerging health challenges. the establishment of a health union along the lines of other deeper integration projects seems absolutely necessary in the light of today's events. however, i am afraid that we will be able to achieve something similar under the incoming german presidency, because it is the german government that has been blocking the completion of negotiations for years, for example on the hta regulation, which is, from today's point of view, a completely childish step in the field of enlargement cooperation. the question for me is where we need to go from here, in the joint procurement of medicines by member states, at least for rare diseases and vaccines. as regards vaccines, intellectual property rights such as patents should not restrict rapid access to vaccines and further treatment. scientists around the world developing these vaccines and treatments often use huge amounts of public money. big pharma shouldn't be profiting off this pandemic at the expense of people's health, and they shouldn't be paying for research that's already been paid for with public money. the gue/ngl wants to ensure guaranteed access to diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines related to the covid-19 virus for all. that's why my colleague botenga and i, and others, started the right2cure petition two weeks ago, and i'm inviting you to sign it. i won't drag this out, but i'm asking you to pass a joint resolution, which could be a good start for the future.
mr. president, we are experiencing the worst health emergency of our lifetimes in terms of health, economic and social consequences. but we have the opportunity and the obligation to achieve better coordination and strengthen our health systems against future threats. with the recovery plan, we renew our commitment to the well-being of europeans and all health professionals to ensure greater protection and response capacities, both in the face of health emergencies and in the fight against chronic diseases and, for example, cancer. we want a europe for health, with a health approach in all policies, with more funding from the european budget and with the ema and the ecdc with more powers and with decision-making and coordination capacities, for an effective response throughout europe. this strategy is the first step towards effective prevention, towards more and better research to have effective medicines and treatments, and also a vaccine accessible to all. we also need to support the healthcare production sector and its activities in europe, so that it can create new quality jobs and, above all, autonomy in production. europe has the best national health systems in the world. that is why we are the health reference in a global world, increasingly exposed to threats. this is the europe we are defending, the europe of health and the europe of people.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president mr. borrell, the european union says that in 2019 it was a leader in the promotion and protection of human rights. for me, it was the year that the mercosur agreement was closed, while bolsonaro was burning the amazon or promoting the lack of protection of indigenous peoples. 2019 was the year in which carola rackete and other ngos were criminalized and vilified for rescuing people from certain death in the mediterranean, while the western parliament rejected a resolution calling for the resumption of search and rescue operations in the mediterranean; the year in which international law was ignored and a trade agreement with morocco was ratified that includes the occupied territories of the sahara; the year in which human rights violations committed by crimes of governments such as erdogan or al-sisi continued to be whitewashed. judge for yourselves. i'm clear on that. i believe that we must stop lecturing and start setting an example, respecting human rights in our trade agreements, respecting human rights in the mediterranean, respecting human rights also on european territory.
madam president, mr high representative, the report we are debating today marks the end of the implementation of the action plan on human rights and democracy (2015-2019). one of the objectives of this plan, as set out in the report, is to combat torture. an important tool for this is the human rights dialogues with third countries, as was done with cuba in october 2019, where there are still, unfortunately, prisoners of conscience, arbitrary detentions and medical missions considered as modern slavery by the united nations. another priority of the union's external action is to promote democracy and the rule of law in the rest of the world. in 2019, eight observation missions and seven expert missions were carried out to support electoral processes. these resources could ensure a democratic and negotiated transition in venezuela, with free, fair, transparent elections, nullifying the regime's attempts to corrupt democratic institutions and illegitimately depose the leadership of political parties. mr high representative, use all the instruments at your disposal to ensure that democracy and human rights are restored in the countries suffering from their absence.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr high representative, mr borrell, the relationship with turkey is complex, but it is a relationship. why do i say this obviously? because there is a clear interest on the part of turkey to compartmentalize the relationship, creating a few disconnected and inarticulate pieces. we have offered turkey the maximum, which is to be a member of our club - even if it sometimes sounds like a punishment - and the framework of the relationship must therefore be that of a candidate country. that means a progressive alignment of turkey with all the standards of the european union. the relationship situation is bad - you acknowledged that on monday - because there is a lack of trust, a substrate of lack of trust that affects all areas of the relationship. the exemption is frozen, with a brutal deterioration of human rights, in the matter of visa liberalization. and it has to be said: turkey has not met the standards it has to meet to join; on the customs union, we are fighting at the world trade organization; on migration we are receiving an unfounded accusation of not meeting, when european public opinion thinks just the opposite; and in foreign policy, this idea of assertiveness is being - i think - misused. we cannot be in solidarity with greece and cyprus because we are greece and cyprus and therefore cannot act as a mere mediator.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the pandemic should have taught us that humanity needs to stick together, and the citizens of turkey are as much to be valued as all the people in this world. but the turkish leadership, which is rejected by many citizens, perhaps by the majority, is doing a lot of things wrong. from north africa to vienna's favourites, to the federal capital of my home country of austria, it's destabilising, it's needlepointing, it's escalating instead of de-escalating, as the pandemic phase should have taught us all at the latest. the arms embargo against libya is being circumvented, bad blood is being spilled on nato partners in the mediterranean, and riots are being carried into the streets in vienna's favourite cities, presumably with the support of the turkish leadership, in the middle of europe. the eu must therefore put an end to the status of candidate countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, it is important that we are discussing today turkey's wrongdoing in the european union and in the eastern mediterranean more generally, but that is not enough. the major mistakes of history, my dear mr borrell, are repeated because those in power do not learn from the mistakes of the past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the end, humanity paid for this supreme mistake with rivers of blood, because we did not learn from history and the supporters of that policy were condemned by history. the credibility of the european union is therefore being judged in the eastern mediterranean. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. as we speak, germany is selling state-of-the-art weaponry to turkey, which turkey will use against the interests of the european union. that is not credibility or values, my dear mr. borrell.
mr president, mr borrell, to the crisis of last march, when the erdogan government threw thousands of immigrants at the gates of the union, we must add the military incidents with france, greece and cyprus, as well as the new threats made during your own visit to ankara. and that is because, as you are hearing here in this european parliament, the union lacks political determination and does not defend the strong, christian values that make up europe. however, in reply to a letter from all the vox members to you requesting that the multi-million dollar payments to turkey be suspended, you replied that not all the money goes to the government and that you are very much in favour of maintaining these payments. let us continue to pay a bill of 1.7 billion euros to a country which we cannot consider a partner. a similar situation is experienced in the maghreb, where we also have several countries that are showing little collaboration and defiance in controlling illegal immigration. we therefore call on turkey to immediately suspend all payments to third countries which do not clearly cooperate with immigration policies and to put an end to the process of turkey's accession to the european union.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, let us be clear: you are bringing this debate on belarus here today because elections are coming up in a country that is an ally of russia and you want to influence the results. they are openly practicing the constant interference they denounce in other countries. and let me remind you that these moves have been dangerous in the past. when government changes are promoted at any cost, we can end up supporting governments with nazi ministers, as we have already done in ukraine. the eastern border of the european union is now heavily militarized territory and this year there have been nato exercises on the border with belarus involving more than 36 000 troops, most of them american. is this escalation of interest to the peoples of europe? obviously not. it only serves to fuel mr. trump's new cold war. they must put aside this old-fashioned view of international relations. we need an independent and sovereign foreign policy that is committed to multilateralism and stability on our continent, not to sanctions and constant confrontation with our neighbours.
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
in writing. the roma, with some six million inhabitants in the eu, are one of the largest ethnic minorities in europe. unfortunately, a significant part of its population still lives in very poor socioeconomic conditions. the creation of the current european framework of national roma integration strategies until 2020 was considered a milestone and represented a turning point for roma communities in europe. however, as a non-binding policy tool, it provides a framework for policy coordination, consultation and monitoring and specific policy recommendations for national roma integration strategies, but its translation into administrative capacities and concrete policy actions is left to the discretion of national, regional and local governments. in order to correct this problem, a directive on the equality and inclusion of people of roma origin needs to be adopted for the new decade. a legislative act binding on the member states, with clear objectives, adapted to the needs of each particular context, with specific indicators, more efficient and robust monitoring and surveillance mechanisms and adequate funding.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, this is an important debate and an important subject, because culture is the foundation of self-awareness, of self-determination. that is why i would like to see at a time like this, a serious discussion about what the european commission should be promoting. should it continue on this dangerous and slippery path of promoting transnational cultural projects that go left, go towards cultural marxism? cultural projects that try to present the european man as a man without roots, without a clear national self-definition, without a clear national self-consciousness, without a clear gender identity and without any cultural support. because, madam president and commissioner, i firmly believe that we europeans owe what we are to our european origins; to our religion; to the fact that most of us are christians, whether orthodox, catholics or protestants, but most of us are christians; and to our sense of self and our self-definition. and when we talk about our roots, what makes us who we are, we can't avoid, commissioner, i'm talking about hagia sophia. hagia sophia is not called the mother of all churches for nothing. it's the foundation of christianity, of eastern orthodoxy. what is happening in turkey at the moment cannot be an internal turkish matter, it is a pan-european issue, a cultural issue, our issue, and i ask you to put it, with all its severity and all its sharpness. president erdogan can no longer provoke the feelings, the feelings, the beliefs, the religion of the christian european peoples.
madam president, the recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework must bear in mind the cultural dimension of the european union. the erasmus+ and creative europe programmes must get that increase in funding that we all want. we must also support europe's cultural heritage, which also plays a very important role - as you have said, mr vice-president - in attracting tourism, a sector which is now suffering so much. the council of europe's european cultural routes programme is an excellent showcase of the richness of our cultural heritage. we must contribute to its financing. i would particularly like to stress that next year the first of these routes, the camino de santiago, will be celebrating its holy year or jubilee year. throughout 2021 xacobeo will probably be the most important cultural event in europe. the european union must help. the roads to santiago are roads to europe. they cross all the countries of the continent and for centuries many european citizens have made pilgrimages to compostela through them, thus contributing to the creation and expansion of a common european culture and also a european identity. and since i am speaking of historical heritage, i would like to join my colleague, mrs šojdrová, in her question on the plan to declare hagia sophia a mosque.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is very important for the future of the european cultural and creative sector, which is being severely affected by the covid-19 crisis. thousands of people working in the field have not had the opportunity or the means to adapt to the changes brought about by this crisis, and the solutions implemented by governments leave much to be desired. despite the many appeals from the european parliament, despite the calls from each of us to the national authorities, this sector of which we are proud and which is one of the strengths of the european economy seems to have been forgotten. this was unfortunately also the case in romania, where the authorities did nothing for the three hundred thousand people who work in this field and represent around 10% of the gross domestic product. that is why we are today calling for a european response and clear measures to support this sector. we need to allocate 2% of the european recovery plan to rescuing europe's cultural and creative sector, but the same needs to be done at member state level. our resolution will be a last call to save the sector. i hope that the european executive and the council will listen to the voices of the thousands of people working in this field.
madam president, mr vice president, this is the first time i have spoken in the house since february and i would like to begin by sending my deepest condolences to the families of those who have died from covid-19 and also to express my gratitude to all the people who are working, putting their health at risk, to combat this pandemic. we are here today to talk about culture and the importance of this strategic sector in europe, the figures and importance of which have been mentioned in this house. but i would like to focus on the importance of defending this culture as a european cultural identity, as judeo-christian values, and on the importance of the european commission defending this european identity, defending western values. and we are seeing this with what is happening with hagia sophia, which they want to declare a mosque, or we have seen it with the attacks that have been on monuments in europe, promoted by totalitarian movements and promoted by those who want to attack our identity, our culture and our values. we must therefore reclaim european culture, not only for its economic value, but for the importance it has in defending liberal democracies in europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the message is very clear: cohesion policy is not a matter of generosity, but of justice. we must harness the full potential of our regions, of our municipalities, to rebuild ourselves after this terrible pandemic, because it is the most important investment for our future. during the pandemic -- you said it -- we've mobilized over 37 billion euros that have kept jobs and that have helped people who have had the hardest time: groups of people with disabilities, groups of older people, people who are homeless, in metropolitan areas, in rural areas. it is the real europe, the near europe we want, not the europe that defends tax havens. we have many projects pending to relaunch europe, and to do this we must ensure that the allocations for cohesion in the period 2021-2027 are used for direct investments and not for direct investments linked to covid. we want a cohesion policy that focuses on reducing inequalities and that gives priority to territories, that gives priority to municipalities so that no one is left behind and that does not make conditionality. we are therefore very hopeful that the council will reach a good agreement and, with its encouragement, that this will be possible so as not to leave anyone behind.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, this pandemic has presented an unprecedented challenge to the institutions. it has left us exposed for the many shortcomings, but if there is anything to be proud of it is that europe has been able to react. the biggest recovery plan ever put forward in europe has been launched, with solidarity and cohesion at the heart of this plan. and if cohesion policy played an important role in the emergency, the new funds will be essential to overcome it. our concern is that they should reach the citizens as soon as possible, that they should be simplified, that they should have the flexibility they have never had and that bureaucracy should be eliminated. but this crisis should also make us think about the destination and use of these funds. because these funds are the opportunity that our autonomous communities, our municipalities, our towns have to carry out reforms that will lead us to a more digital, greener and more sustainable model; that will make our smes, our trade, our companies, our tourism much stronger and more competitive, and having a clear idea of what our priorities are and what europe we want. i want a europe that is much closer to the citizens, that invests in education for young people, but also for those who work and have to recycle; a europe where rural areas are not emptied but are attractive to young people and families; a europe where the digital divide does not exist; a europe with a digital and agile administration, with livable cities; a europe without inequalities and which leaves no one behind. that europe is possible if we all work for a much stronger, much more ambitious and much more modern cohesion policy.
mr president, the economic and social consequences of the coronavirus are dramatic, and especially in countries like my own, spain, where mismanagement has multiplied its devastating effect. in the european response to the crisis, the cohesion funds are of vital importance in order to eliminate inequalities and support an economic recovery which will undoubtedly be very long and very complex. we are glad that the commission has adopted our idea that member states should be able to transfer funds between programmes. however, two tasks remain. in terms of coherence and simplification of the different existing mechanisms, the transition fund cannot replace the cohesion funds, but rather complements them in very specific respects. and secondly, on the budget. many colleagues have said this earlier this morning: an ambitious cohesion policy, more important than ever at the moment, does not need cuts, but a budget that meets the needs.
mr president, commissioner, a few months ago, when we did not even know about the existence of covid, we were here debating the possibility of achieving a more ambitious financial framework. we were alert to the threat of cuts in cohesion funds and we called for less rigidity and more flexibility. sometimes it seemed like we were even asking for a chimera. today, however, we have shown that it can be done if we want to and that we have been able to react with diligence and speed to the most urgent questions. but what now? because unfortunately, this is just the beginning. there may still be a long way to go, and the european union cannot remain in first aid. the message is clear: we need sufficient and fair resources to ensure that no one is left behind and that no conditionality of any kind is imposed to reproduce the mistakes of the past. how can we guarantee both? and, no less important, what comes next? cohesion policies are the keystone of the european project and the principles that inspire it. this vault cannot be damaged or affected by the impact of this crisis; on the contrary, it must be strengthened, and we will only achieve this if we are able to give it the role it deserves, in the quality and quantity it deserves. you can count on our support to do so.
mr president, madam commissioner, first of all, i would like to thank president omarjee for having driven this debate and for having put this question so that we can be debating something as important as the role of the cohesion funds in this post-covid recovery process. first of all, i would like to stress that this parliament and the commission have been able to react in good time. we have reacted in time and it is important to tell the citizens about this. secondly, i wanted to applaud the ambitious plan that the commission has put forward, the next generation eu, where we are talking about 750 billion, coming from the tax dollars of european citizens, that are going to go to cohesion policy in this post-covid era. also, thirdly, i wanted to put the focus on the importance of this money being spent and used in those regions that have been most affected by the covid crisis. and that must be important: it must go to those regions that are most affected. and secondly, we need to re-frame priorities so that they are directed towards the most important objective, which must be job creation, wealth creation. it is small and mediumsized enterprises that will be able to create jobs. we must not lose sight of the fact that it is small and mediumsized enterprises which should be able to benefit most from the funds that are to be approved in the next generation eu.
mr. president, we have made it. many in this house and many in the commission, mrs von der leyen, and in the council, mr michel, have worked tirelessly to achieve an ambitious recovery fund which would enable europe to face the way out of this crisis in a united way. the european parliament showed the way with two resolutions in april and may, which showed that a pact was possible if we all thought like europeans. europe has done its job, and now the countries, all the countries, must do theirs. some are already celebrating as if they won the world cup, but the reality is that all the work is still to be done. the governments that are going to receive these funds have not yet done anything to solve the problems that these funds are going to be able to solve. we are only at the beginning of a long journey that we must take to create the changes and transformations that our countries need. nothing is free, not even the 750 billion euros financed by debt that will fall on the shoulders of future generations. our responsibility to those future generations is to use this money to build a better society. that is why, and only for that, we must use these resources. we must repeat this message in every corner: every corner of europe, every corner of our countries. we must explain that the reforms that have been so long delayed and the investments that are needed must be made now. we must use this opportunity to move towards a more humane europe, where all citizens have the capacity to enjoy true freedom, respect the environment, embrace knowledge technology and put technology at the service of people. how we invest this money will determine whether europe emerges from the crisis stronger or weaker. it is a time of rigour, commitment and responsibility. we in the european parliament must do everything we can to ensure that this important investment that europe is making is well spent.
mr president, the polish government does not seem to be concerned that the european union has for the first time ever activated its so-called 'nuclear option' under article 7. and this is because, in our opinion, it has been raised in a complex way in this case, while other flagrant situations are also avoided, such as the violence in france against the yellow vests or, in spain, the police repression in catalonia and the basque country. we believe that the council and the commission are still not up to the task of protecting the polish people from the continuing violations of their fundamental rights. we want them to stop reinterpreting the rule of law in a restrictive way and to be just as severe when attacks on women's rights or lgbtqi people happen, for example. the latter are being subjected to increasing harassment and we find it unacceptable that the polish president himself should speak out publicly against them. something must be done and it must be done now, and that is why we are asking the council to declare the existence of a serious and persistent violation of article 2 and to issue recommendations, and the commission to use all the instruments at its disposal to address the situation in the country.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in recent years, it has become a common practice for the eu institutions to use the rule of law as a political weapon, as a cudgel, against certain member states, without any objectivity. poland and hungary have been subject to a process for years, which has been based on ideological issues, serves exclusively political purposes and thus does not meet the requirements of the rule of law, thus trampling on the principles of due process and attachment to the prosecution. the rule of law cannot be taken into account by applying different standards to member states, by accepting reports of accusations instead of dialogue, by subjecting them to a land-locked procedure that lasts for years. the reality is that wherever a government is formed that has a characteristic right-wing politics, sooner or later, the allegations of the rule of law will come up. this is the case with hungary and poland, but we have also seen this recently with slovenia and bulgaria. your comrades, the socialists and liberals, are silent in cases of violation of the rule of law, such as the death of the slovak jozef chovanec here in belgium, following an uninvestigated police operation. or when the hungarian left is launching an openly anti-semitic politician in the midterm parliamentary elections in hungary this early october. when we ask you this, there is no rule of law problem, and there are no answers. what is this, ladies and gentlemen, if not double standards? thank you very much.
mr president, in december 2019, i spoke proudly about my same-sex marriage, full of hope for an inclusive europe, despite the unacceptable blockage of the equal treatment directive since 2008. shame on the council. today, i don't know if i can still set foot in poland, with an almost public spread of intolerance and violence against the lgbti community. stop the hatred, stop the discrimination on the pretext of religion or freedom of expression! the court of justice of the european union recently reaffirmed this in april: freedom of expression is not absolute and can be limited to protect the rights of others. the union is not a police force for thought or speech, but a guardian of fundamental rights and the rule of law. we therefore call on the council and the commission to intervene to defend the values on which our community is founded.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, enough of this persecution of poland. it is enough to persecute hungary and every free european nation that dares to challenge all the ideological mantras of this progressive consensus. this is not a debate about the rule of law. this is what it is, the usual thing: a lynching and an attempt to publicly humiliate a parliament, a sovereign country which refuses to be pushed into that social democratic consensus which is being imposed from here. that's what it's all about. and you all know it. i am very concerned that this house is not aware that this report is an insult to the sovereign polish nation and an exercise in infinite hypocrisy, since your rapporteur is a member of a party which today obscenely tramples on and has totally destroyed the division of powers in spain, in alliance with the communists. with a government that has a prosecutor general appointed by them to destroy that division, and who was formerly a socialist minister of justice. where we have this socialist prosecutor who destroys the separation and we have judges threatened by vice president pablo iglesias. that is what we have in spain, in the country where the party of this gentleman who is now trying to threaten poland is in power.
on behalf of the renew group. mr vice-president, commissioner, minister, on behalf of my renew europe group, i would like to express my enthusiastic and unconditional support for this resolution and the work of our group's rapporteur, valérie hayer, and the rapporteur, mr fernandes, of the people's group. the satisfaction is that, thanks to this decision, we are going to allow the european union to borrow 750 billion euros to finance the joint fight against the economic consequences of the pandemic. but this satisfaction is coupled with a deep concern, which i share with the colleagues who have just spoken, and that is that we do not have the resources to pay back the debt we are issuing. the european union does not have the european resources to pay this european debt at the moment. as in the united states after the war of independence, every seven years, here, the member states have to contribute unanimously and voluntarily to the request we make of them for money to continue to exist. that is not acceptable. this form of financing creates unacceptable tensions between member states and it is time to change it. it is time for the european debt to be paid with taxes, not with contributions from european citizens - dutch, french, etc. - but with taxes on those who pollute and do not pay and those who do not face the taxes they should face. these are the remedies we are proposing in this parliament. the council has committed itself to putting these resources into action. we hope that during the first half of 2021 we will be able to work with the commission and the council to get them up and running as soon as possible.
madam president, i would like to thank, like the other honourable members, sven mikser for his excellent work. we welcome the fact that georgia is returning to the path of reform which has made it, as some of the honourable members have said, one of the countries in the region which is closest to european standards, after overcoming a double crisis, which has been overcome through dialogue and negotiation, and on this point i also acknowledge the work of the european external action service and ambassador hartzell in managing this agreement with the opposition. we regret that the opposition has not supported constitutional reform and electoral reform in parliament, despite its commitments and despite the pardons that were granted, which were one of its demands. we were very demanding of the government and very demanding of the majority party and we believe that the opposition should have supported these reforms, which were the continuation of the political agreement to which the european union contributed and which, moreover, benefit, by losing the majority bias, those minor parties in the system. in any case, with this new framework the elections go ahead. and the concern now, mr borrell, is how we are going to observe an election in a situation of pandemic, with difficulties on the part of parliament and with difficulty in articulating a mission of the usual kind. i just heard that the osce is going to send a normal election mission. i think that the european union, the european external action service and parliament should do the same and we should support, in any case, domestic observation, because there are large ngos working very professionally in that country. because it is necessary to calm the period immediately after the elections, in a climate as polarized as it is traditional in georgia, and for that, international observation has always been essential. so that georgia can continue on the path we have all praised, in the direction of european values.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, in the meeting to which mr mcallister referred, i ended by asking the turkish minister to re-examine the sincerity of turkey's european commitment. because we have offered turkey the best we have: membership of the european union. and being a candidate means converging on everything: on values, on analysis, on interests - including strategic ones. and yet turkey diverges from the european union in everything. in all analyses, in all values, in all policies. i wonder even if the divergence of the european union is not becoming a state policy in turkey and that is why the relationship is completely affected by a lack of trust that leads nowhere. we differ, of course, on the rule of law, we differ on foreign policy - it's obvious - and we differ on how we approach matters on an international scale. turkey is defending its theoretical rights with an official discourse that is aggressive, insolent, insulting and contemptuous of the european union, which it claims to be seeking to join, and now with an irresponsible display of military force in the mediterranean. is it necessary to consider greece a colony of europe in order to defend the rights that turkey believes it has? is it necessary to fly over turkish soil - i mean the ground and not the sea - to defend these ideas? the diplomatic defence of turkey's views is buried by this ultra-nationalist rhetoric for domestic consumption and deepens the gap with the european union. we must thank mr borrell for his efforts, the efforts of germany, the efforts of spain too, to de-escalate. but turkey must withdraw its ships from the disputed waters and sit down at the table, changing the way it addresses the european union, because the only way to do that is with a diplomatic language appropriate to relations with a country with which, in one form or another, we must continue to share interests in the future.
mr president, mr president of the council, high representative, mr weber, colleagues, the escalation of tensions in the mediterranean is a direct consequence of the behaviour and provocations of turkish president erdogan. this is a direct consequence of his neo-ottoman policy which is a provocation to the european union and to our values and to our way of life. let me remind you that the change, the attempt to turn the sanctuaries of orthodox christianity into mosques, such as "hagia sophia", as "christ the saviour", are actually part of these heavy provocations against us. and, ladies and gentlemen, it's high time you opened your eyes and looked. i'm speaking to the left-wingers in this room, who are a little bit ambivalent about the behavior of the dictator erdogan. ladies and gentlemen, turkey at the moment, erdogan's, neo-ottoman turkey, is not a european country, and we have to stop pretending that we don't see that. we must stop pouring european funds there, we must make it clear that at the moment neo-ottoman, erdogan turkey is not a european country and cannot be part of the european union. we have to stop this hypocrisy and tell it like it is. otherwise, we're looking at a continuing provocation.
mr president, mr borrell, for a long time, turkish authoritarian leadership has become more and more outspoken. however, the eu has never really dared to criticise its actions. today, to confront erdoğan’s escalation in the eastern mediterranean, the eu has the responsibility to stay united in front of turkey’s expansionist actions. all member states must support both greece and cyprus and need to immediately limit their military ties with ankara and no one should export more arms to them or organise joint naval manoeuvres. it is time for the eu to raise its voice and concerns on the constant harassment of the kurdish people by erdoğan’s regime, the constant persecution of independent journalists and the constant jailing of dissidents.
mr president, international law, and only international law, is the solution to the problem of turkey. the united nations convention on the law of the sea was signed in the early 1980s and has been ratified by 167 states. it's a matter of customary law. the european union is not only a member of the un but also a member of the un, and the un is not only a member of the un but also a member of the un. international law and the law of the sea are not fair to a la carte, they are not fair to turkey, they are not fair to an oriental bargain. the convention on the law of the sea, in article 121, refers to islands with economic activity. these islands have their own shelf, their own exclusive economic zone, and territorial waters within twelve miles. under article 3 of the convention, greece has the inalienable right to extend its territorial waters to 12 miles. but turkey, since 1995, when greece ratified the convention on the law of the sea, has threatened "casus belli", that is, cause of war, if greece extends its territorial waters to twelve miles. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept this amendment. but turkey wants dialogue with a gun to the head of greece and cyprus. this is not dialogue; it is blackmailing its neighbours in the eastern mediterranean. the european parliament and the european union cannot accept this.
mr president, turkey has gone from being a partner to a troublemaker. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the turkish minister for defence, mr akar, yesterday called for the demilitarisation of the greek islands, that is, for us to facilitate it. let's be realistic about this. there is no european perspective for turkey. it needs a new special relationship that will include both the carrot of upgrading our economic relations and cooperation and the whip of automatic sanctions when it violates human rights within it or the sovereign rights of neighbouring countries. the agreement should also include provision for the joint demarcation of maritime zones under international law with greece and cyprus within a limited timeframe. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. we need a single european strategy, ladies and gentlemen. any crack in our policy only strengthens the arrogance of turkey and mr erdoğan.
mr president, i want to thank mr borrell especially for his great effort in bridging the tension on both sides and, as already said by my colleague sergey lagodinsky, blaming and shaming will not help in resolving this european problem, i would say. europe is worried. we all have to be worried about the eastern mediterranean. the deepening confrontation in the aegean, in the waters of cyprus and libya, is a very serious sign which would have profound implications for regional stability and nato. we all have much to lose from an actual conflict. this is a no-win situation. we need a de-escalation immediately. it’s not enough to know that a dialogue based on compromise is the only working solution. i urge both sides to sit at the negotiation table without allowing third countries to take actions that encourage either party. the first positive sign was made, and i am very much looking forward to more comprehensive engagement from the european union as well.
mr president, mr erdoğan's turkey is a combination of human rights abuses and violations of international law. on turkish territory, a very large number of elected officials have been deprived of their mandate and replaced in an authoritarian manner by governors imposed by the state. for years, congressmen and mayors have been imprisoned on trumped-up terrorism charges. many are kurdish and their terrorism is really about demanding the rights of the kurdish people. but it is the entire opposition that recep tayyip erdoğan is attacking: it has also been affected by this repression. outside its borders, turkey has invaded parts of syria in areas with kurdish populations. it is carrying out military operations in iraq without any mandate to justify it and, of course, this was widely discussed at the med7 summit, which brings together the seven mediterranean countries of the european union, held in corsica a week ago. there was the violation of the territorial waters of greece and cyprus to seize their gas resources. this aggression was strongly condemned and this summit allowed it to happen. the fact is that the turkish research vessel and the military fleet that was escorting it returned to their port in turkey, without the need to engage in a dangerous escalation for peace. however, all the problems i have mentioned remain as threats to peace and democracy.
mr president, i think we have a rare situation in this parliament today, and that is that there is a very broad consensus, which is very good news for high representative borrell, but also for the european council, which has a parliament with an almost unanimous opinion that measures must be taken against the alarming drift of the erdogan regime, against what is happening in all areas: in the involution of human rights, in the continuing challenge to the borders of cyprus and to the borders of greece, in the harassment, the manipulation, the use of refugees, and in the military provocations that are already taking place with the question of drilling as well. in this sense, the time has come for erdogan to face up to the situation, to be told that this drift is impossible, not to continue it and to see that turkey cannot behave like another enemy and be treated as a subsidized friend. we must tell erdogan that we want cooperation, but that one excludes the other, and we must tell him that in a very forceful way, with sanctions.
the european union is failing in its neighbourhood policy towards the eastern countries. we have seen it in ukraine, we have seen it in georgia and now we are seeing it in belarus. this failure is the result of the fact that, instead of having our own foreign policy, we do everything possible to satisfy the united states in its confrontation with russia. that is why we have allowed some 20 000 american troops to move into european territory at the border of a country neighbouring the european union in the last year. instead of acting as an actor promoting dialogue, peace, negotiation and the political path, the european union is contributing to a conflict that is a problem for europe. the united states is again using europe as a playing field to wage another war. mr borrell, the european union must not take measures that would encourage a war on european soil, but must create the conditions necessary to avoid it.
mr president, mr high representative, if europe has made any contribution to the development of mankind in improving the welfare of its citizens, it is the idea and the improvement of democracy as a form of government. by their fundamental principle "the vote", belarusians have been peacefully demonstrating for five consecutive weeks against the fraud committed by the dictator lukashenko. last sunday 250 arrests were reported, with much violence against the participants of these marches. today, surely, with the reports we have, there will also be tortured. the european union cannot fall into the trap of legitimising electoral fraud. it must impose tough sanctions to force dialogue with the legitimate representatives of the opposition in order to hold verifiable elections and respect the sovereign will. as the father of a disqualified leader, imprisoned, persecuted by satraps for using torture and abuse against his opponents, i want to extol the importance of sanctions against human rights violators and usurpers of legitimate power. i call for a strong, unequivocal resolution condemning the lukashenko regime.
mr president, first of all i would like to express our sympathy and solidarity with the lebanese people following the devastation caused by the explosion in the port of beirut on 4 august with the consequences we all know, particularly in view of the fact that lebanon - in addition to many other dimensions mentioned - is currently hosting the largest number of refugees per capita in the world, with about one million syrian citizens. i of course support the words of the high representative and the actions of the commission and the european union as a whole to help in the reconstruction. but, as other honourable members have said, i think we must pay close attention to the reform of the political system, with a force like hezbollah, which works in the service of iran and syria and, in general, a system of confessional parties which are not acceptable in a democracy. i think that's the real challenge of the lebanese political system: political parties that don't respond to confessional keys.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i just saw the first tweet from alexei nawalny with a photo from the hospital. he's now breathed through the first night of his life without assistance and on his own. i think we all wish him a good recovery. he was poisoned with novichok. this has been confirmed by a german laboratory and by laboratories in france and sweden, through the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons. in the long series of political murders at home and abroad, this is only the latest case. there is little doubt who is responsible for this - if not criminally, then at least politically: the gentleman in the kremlin. i think we can't look at this attack in isolation if we're going to think together about how we respond. there is only one russian government that is not, in many ways, at home and abroad, for freedom, democracy, cooperation and transparency. the european union must take a holistic approach to this act, including the effective sanctioning of behaviour in belarus, the donbass, crimea, georgia, moldova and syria. to all concerned, i call on you: stop looking and talking nice to this putinist russia! unfortunately, this is a systemic adversary that is doing everything it can to weaken the eu, to destabilize democratic states as a whole, because our way of organizing society is more attractive and fascinating in its sphere of influence than what its structures behind the facade of the state have to offer. so let us agree on the approach to this country and take the necessary steps ( the president shall remove the speaker from office.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, ‘alexei navalny’ is a name president putin refuses to say out loud, hoping this will make him irrelevant. but navalny’s popular support, his intimidation and arrest by the authorities, and now his poisoning actually show the opposite. this is a man with impact, exposing the massive corruption by the kremlin and its allies. following this assassination attempt, navalny is now added to a long list of russian citizens who have been a thorn in the side of the authorities. navalny was poisoned with a chemical nerve agent to which only the russian military and intelligence agencies have access, so there is no need for a guessing game as to who bears responsibility. to demand a real investigation by the kremlin would – we can say from experience – be wishful thinking. it won’t happen, just as it never happened with the other poisonings or the shooting down of malaysia airlines flight 17 (mh17). the kremlin’s denial, however, is not a reason to fail to hold moscow accountable for a very serious violation of international law. if ever we were serious about the eu’s strategic autonomy, this is the moment to put that theoretical academic concept into practice, and to do so by cancelling nord stream 2. i wish mr navalny a speedy recovery. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, politkovskaya, magnitsky, litvinenko, nemtsov, skripal, opponents of the kremlin, victims of kremlin and now alexei navalny poisoned with the military-grade nerve agent novichok. it is time to stop putin’s impunity. it is time to impose broader sectoral sanctions. let us start with stopping nord stream 2. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we condemn what happened and convey our best wishes for recovery and our solidarity to mr navalny. any use of chemical substances or weapons is inhuman, illegal and intolerable; a complicated and worrying issue that requires an independent position. but we must ask ourselves what we want to achieve with this parliament's resolution. every time we talk about russia or the countries of the east, we are only straining relations with the european union, in a somewhat hypocritical way because all parties know that we have close trade and energy relations; the nord stream project is an example of this. and i ask: what benefits can the possible use of sanctions bring to the peoples of the european union and to the russian people? we're still tied to alliances from the last century. ukraine is an example of this. we have given up on building an independent neighbourhood and foreign policy and we have contributed to an escalation of tensions which, by the way, does not make the european union a safer place. we must build fair trade relations, denounce human rights violations and not allow their constant exploitation. promoting peace and human rights begins with changing these neighbourhood policies, and today i cannot fail to mention in this parliament that we must also respect human rights within the territory and that what we are... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, we deeply regret the assassination attempt against alexei navalny and express our utmost concern about this repeated use of chemical and nerve agents against russian citizens. russian authorities should finally put an end to the harassment, intimidation, violence and repression against their political opponents by ending the prevailing impunity. journalists, human rights defenders and opposition politicians have to be able to conduct their legitimate activities without fear for their lives. our relations with russia are at a low point; characterised by mistrust caused by russia’s actions in violation of international law in ukraine, intervention in syria, the spread of disinformation and fake news. of particular concern is the high-level support by russia to extreme anti-european forces in the european union. nevertheless, some pragmatic engagement with russia should continue in areas where it is still possible and necessary for the interest of global governance. this is why the five guiding principles for the eu policy towards russia should serve as a base for a much-needed new comprehensive strategy towards russia. a strategy that should primarily be based on the need for respect for international law and human rights standards, while strengthening peace and security.
mr president, i say to the high representative and the house: it’s incredible i think that in 2020 people are poisoned to silence them for their political ideas, and it’s not the first time this has happened. i would like to wish mr navalny a quick recovery. our group condemns firmly the poisoning of mr navalny. we ask russia to investigate in a transparent and impartial manner the assassination attempt on alexei navalny, and we ask russia to bring to justice those responsible for it on whatever level they might be. for me, it’s very clear with everything that happens with russia, and colleagues have said it already: we need, mr borrell, a new eu-russia strategy, one of sticks and carrots and we need to adopt an ambitious eu human rights sanctions regime. let’s make work of it. (applause)
mr. chairman, please! first, my condolences to mr. navalny and his family, and best wishes for his recovery. second, the need for a swift and credible investigation. third, russia is weakening economically and, contrary to appearances, is losing influence in its traditional regions of influence, such as central asia, the south caucasus and central and eastern europe. this is a signal to moscow that it should seek dialogue with the european union, dialogue with the west. situations like mr navalny, the attempted assassination, the previous cases of litvinenko, nemtsov, skripal... it spoils russia's image, it encourages the imposition of sanctions on russia and it is the worst way for russia to be a partner of europe.
the president, sergei yushchenko, anna politkovskaya, boris nemtsov and now alexei navalny, has been appointed by the president of the russian federation. some of the names on the long list of russians who have been murdered or poisoned by the dictator in moscow. and as a dutchman, i am thinking of another crime of the russians: a buk missile that brought down flight mh17. we must now take a strong stand against russia and this regime. and you can. let us now correct the greatest western european geostrategic blunder of all time! stop the nord stream 2. what moron ever thought we should become more dependent on putin's gas supply? in short, we must now isolate this regime completely.
mr president, the names of many of the victims of these poisonings have been mentioned here; some of them were traitors who had fled - deserters, as they would be called in the kremlin - and are now opponents. russia is going into a very, very difficult economic situation: putin is twenty years old and putin has done very little other than consolidate himself in power. now he's in a much more unstable situation for him and it's clear that what he wants is to spread terror and create fear with this case. that is why i believe that the signals to prevent this list from growing and expanding indefinitely must be very, very clear, and the signals can no longer be just any sanctions, such as those that are being imposed - which are partly ignored and camouflaged - they must be clear signals, such as, for example, the immediate suspension of nord stream 2, which would be a very clear signal that the european union and, above all, germany, will not tolerate these things happening and that business as usual is being done with these crimes.
madam president, i think it is very easy to know what we have to do at this point. when we were caught off guard by the pandemic, it was difficult and chaos ensued. nevertheless, the commission at the time wanted to coordinate the closure of borders and restrictions. it was the member states and their governments that did not want to. it is now simple: to harmonize criteria throughout the union, to define restrictions by region and not by member state, and to have exactly the same conditions in the green zones, the yellow zones, the orange zones, the red zones. this is not difficult to do and is the way to save schengen and to save schengen in three aspects: the health aspect, the internal market aspect and the citizens' rights aspect. this time they're not in conflict. they will converge if we are able to have a coordinated response from the council. the answer lies with the governments of the 27 member states.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already we have already discussed the importance of coordinating travel restrictions at european level and preserving the schengen area. but the patchwork of border closures has now become a maze of impenetrable barriers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore urge the council to harmonize these criteria and measures. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i expect joint solutions to common challenges and certainly not the next wave of national unilateralism which will end up hurting everyone.
madam president, even before covid’s start protectionism was on the rise, globally and in europe. covid has clearly intensified the protectionist mind-set in europe and has forced eu citizens to think once again in terms of national borders. is france a red zone or orange zone? will i be allowed to go to denmark from belgium without having quarantine? we must fight these base nationalist tendencies that would be fundamentally negative to all of us. while protecting health must be our first priority, this crisis must not be used as an excuse for actions against the single market. the single market has been fundamental in improving the competitiveness of our economies and prosperity for our citizens. the four freedoms are what make the european union real. the pandemic has made it necessary to rethink many of our policies, but it doesn’t mean rethinking our values. the eu has grown and prospered thanks to its values of openness and free trade, and we must make sure that our actions are not undermined.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have all heard many fairy tales about the schengen borders. in 2015, for example, it was said that, for god's sake, you cannot introduce internal border controls within the schengen area. this is against eu law. what are we seeing now? we are now experiencing the exact opposite of the chaos that was then being described. and what is the next step, ladies and gentlemen? we are witnessing the deliberate restriction of freedom of movement in europe. and what else is there to see, colleagues? we are seeing political fear-mongering by a large number of european governments. the austrian federal government is particularly conspicuous in this, which is unlawfully violating the austrian constitution internally and unlawfully violating eu law externally when it comes to freedom of movement. i think that article 7 of the treaty on european union could be used to this end. the covid pandemic has once again demonstrated the lack of coordination and the weaknesses of this schengen area. it is urgent that we remove this patchwork of problems which citizens unfortunately experience every day and that we bring about a sensible coordination.
madam president, the virus is one and it attacks us all indiscriminately. and far from uniting to defeat it, we have suffered as each member state adopts restrictions on the free movement of people and goods without coordination between all the countries, or with the european union. this lack of harmonisation causes chaos, uncertainty and misinformation among european citizens; it fragmentates the internal market and also blocks the schengen area. we therefore need the commission and the council to establish urgently and effectively harmonised measures to rebuild trust between all member states and european citizens; that the european centre for disease prevention and control be the one to provide the official data on cases, deaths and mapping, and that it also establish the same health criteria for all member states, particularly on the basis of zones or regions and not on the basis of whole countries. we need tests at all airports and access points to restore the free movement of people, without additional barriers and always protecting the health of all. it is essential for everyone, citizens and businesses, that people and goods can move freely and safely throughout the european union.
mr president, resilience, sustainability, gender equality, digital europe, the green deal, agenda 2030, more powers for the union, more european laws, more european taxes, and now even a coordinator against racism: blah, blah, blah. with all due respect, mrs von der leyen, ladies and gentlemen of the popular, liberal and socialist groups, what kind of world are you living in? have you guys been out there? have you seen the 'closed' signs in businesses, even here next to the european parliament? if you want, i'll take you to spain to see the lines for food and clothes in the parishes. and this is gonna get worse. and it's going to get worse if you don't touch reality and forget about your global agendas, full of "climateism", "immigrationism", progressivism and socialism. brussels, if it does not touch reality, will sink the whole of europe. it is time to bring back our industry; it is time to defend our families and our workers; it is time to bet on law and order, to guarantee security at our borders; in short, for that europe of the homelands and voluntary collaboration. mrs von der leyen, you ended your speech with 'long live europe!' if i may, i shall end mine with a 'long live the european nations, long live the europeans and long live europe!'
madam president, the coronavirus has put the european union in front of the greatest challenge of our lives. the pandemic has caused unimaginable damage. thousands of families have lost loved ones. millions of people have lost their jobs. in these difficult times, the european union must, more than ever, stand by those who need it most. no covid patient can be left unattended. the economy and employment must recover. europe cannot afford a lost generation. we need the vaccine. it is essential and must be accessible to all. but we cannot rely exclusively on vaccines to get us out of the health, economic and social crisis, because everything that has been lost and destroyed so far can only be recovered if we take urgent action now. the recovery plan is indispensable. for it to be effective and transformative, we need national governments to do their homework. with a push for ambitious national reforms, fostering a modern, resilient, competitive economy, in the face of climate change and the digital age, giving priority to the creation of quality jobs, because it is the best social policy, strengthening national systems and ensuring, above all, the best education for all our young people. we must make europe a beacon of freedom again, shining a light on a world that is once again going dark. because the coronavirus has also accelerated phenomena that were already happening and undermining the strength of the union and the future of europeans. we cannot take a step back in defending rights and freedoms. not one step back in the defense of democracy in the face of the authoritarian threat, whether it comes from belarus, venezuela or even from within our own societies. we must not take a step back in defending the rule of law against these backward nationalisms and populisms. let us achieve an orderly brexit and restore the spirit of schengen amongst us. the new reality must not mean that we have to give up our european values.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, it has been a very, very difficult few months. many citizens have lost loved ones, lost their jobs or had to close their businesses. but i think we should be proud of the european union's response to this crisis. when we adopted the eu recovery plan, we sent a very important message to our fellow citizens: europe is with you, europe will not leave you alone, we will get out of this together. but not everything is solved. money must be spent well; some governments want to spend it foolishly. the spanish vice-president of the government, for example, this week in an interview, suggested that the recovery plan funds should be used to create new business elites. and i want to make this absolutely clear: from this european parliament, we will do what is necessary to ensure that money is spent well, not spent on helping friends and girlfriends; that it is used to support families in education, health; to fight climate change and protect our planet. because europe is not an atm machine, but an opportunity to fight for the well-being of our families.
in writing. the pandemic, and the european union's response to its economic consequences, represents a historic opportunity to restore hope and enthusiasm to our citizens. that is why we need a courageous response based on adequate budgetary means and through new resources. the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. as socialists, we stress the need for a european strategy against poverty, including the child guarantee, a framework directive on the minimum wage and a decision on own resources and european taxation, to prevent the burden of tax revenue from falling on the income of workers. we are alarmed by the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states, where judicial independence and the protection of human rights are in danger. that is why we have asked the council to adopt a formal decision immediately to negotiate a european rule of law mechanism.
in writing. the pandemic, and the european union's response to its economic consequences, represents a historic opportunity to restore hope and enthusiasm to our citizens. that is why we need a courageous response based on adequate budgetary means and through new resources. the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. as socialists, we stress the need for a european strategy against poverty, including the child guarantee, a framework directive on the minimum wage and a decision on own resources and european taxation, to prevent the burden of tax revenue from falling on the income of workers. we are alarmed by the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states, where judicial independence and the protection of human rights are in danger. that is why we have asked the council to adopt a formal decision immediately to negotiate a european rule of law mechanism.
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has taken, and continues to take, a heavy toll on europe. the most dramatic, of the thousands of citizens who died from the virus. despite a hesitant initial response, the eu has been taking bold decisions to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, which has also caused an unprecedented economic blow. europe must be up to the task. the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms that should aim to strengthen public health, tackle the just digital and ecological transition, strengthen social and territorial cohesion and promote and ensure gender equality. as socialists, we stress the need for a european strategy against poverty, including the child guarantee, a framework directive on the minimum wage and a decision on own resources and european taxation, to prevent the burden of tax revenue from falling on the income of workers. we are alarmed by the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states. that is why we have asked the council to take an immediate decision to negotiate a european rule of law mechanism.
in writing. the pandemic, and the european union's response to its economic consequences, represents a historic opportunity to restore hope and enthusiasm to our citizens. that is why we need a courageous response based on adequate budgetary means and through new resources. the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. as socialists, we stress the need for a european strategy against poverty, including the child guarantee, a framework directive on the minimum wage and a decision on own resources and european taxation, to prevent the burden of tax revenue from falling on the income of workers. we are alarmed by the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states, where judicial independence and the protection of human rights are in danger. that is why we have asked the council to adopt a formal decision immediately to negotiate a european rule of law mechanism.
in writing. the pandemic, and the european union's response to its economic consequences, represents a historic opportunity to restore hope and enthusiasm to our citizens. that is why we need a courageous response based on adequate budgetary means and through new resources. the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. as socialists, we stress the need for a european strategy against poverty, including the child guarantee, a framework directive on the minimum wage and a decision on own resources and european taxation, to prevent the burden of tax revenue from falling on the income of workers. we are alarmed by the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states, where judicial independence and the protection of human rights are in danger. that is why we have asked the council to adopt a formal decision immediately to negotiate a european rule of law mechanism.
in writing. the pandemic, and the european union's response to its economic consequences, represents a historic opportunity to restore hope and enthusiasm to our citizens. that is why we need a courageous response based on adequate budgetary means and through new resources. the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. as socialists, we stress the need for a european strategy against poverty, including the child guarantee, a framework directive on the minimum wage and a decision on own resources and european taxation, to prevent the burden of tax revenue from falling on the income of workers. we are alarmed by the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states, where judicial independence and the protection of human rights are in danger. that is why we have asked the council to adopt a formal decision immediately to negotiate a european rule of law mechanism.
in writing. the pandemic, and the european union's response to its humanitarian, social and economic consequences, is at the same time a historic opportunity to restore hope to our citizens. we therefore need a courageous response based on adequate budgetary means and through new resources. the basis for recovery was laid on 21 july following the agreement reached at the european council, and it is now up to the member states to implement the reforms that must be aimed at strengthening public health, the ecological and digital transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. all this with the aim of guaranteeing equal opportunities for all citizens after the covid-19 pandemic. as socialists we stress the need for a european strategy against poverty, including the child guarantee, a framework directive on the minimum wage and a decision on own resources and european taxation, to prevent the burden of tax revenue from falling on the income of workers. we agree with the commission that the recovery plan is the opportunity to transform europe. it is also a political issue, with full federalisation.
in writing. the pandemic, and the european union's response to its economic consequences, represents a historic opportunity to restore hope and enthusiasm to our citizens. that is why we need a courageous response based on adequate budgetary means and through new resources. the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality. as socialists, we stress the need for a european strategy against poverty, including the child guarantee, a framework directive on the minimum wage and a decision on own resources and european taxation, to prevent the burden of tax revenue from falling on the income of workers. we are alarmed by the deterioration of the rule of law in some member states, where judicial independence and the protection of human rights are in danger. that is why we have asked the council to adopt a formal decision immediately to negotiate a european rule of law mechanism.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i remember when i was six years old and i started school. i was called "dirty gypsy" by the children and i was beaten. my friend was not allowed to give me a seat on the school bus because the other children called him a "gypsy friend". i can't tell you how much those words and the way they treated me hurt. 47 years later, so many children from roma backgrounds must feel the same pain that i did. today i am here, and it is a great honor for me to speak in this house on this special day for my people. at the heart of european democracy, there is a strong call for equality, justice and inclusion. this house and its honourable members, you, ladies and gentlemen, are doing justice to the largest and most oppressed minority in our european history. we will fight together against inequalities and injustices and insist that equality must be for all people, regardless of ethnicity. ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of you has the opportunity to take an important step towards ending centuries-old injustice and bringing justice to nearly 80% of people of roma background living in precarious living conditions in the eu. with this historic resolution, we are beginning a process of giving these people a perspective for improvement and a chance for real equal participation. the shadow reporters and i have been working with the people of romani background to finally make their voices heard, and it is the voice of the people of romani background that you hear in this report. we have managed together - thanks to the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation - to table a crucial report in which we demand nothing more and nothing less than equal rights for people with a roma background. ladies and gentlemen, you can make a positive difference in the lives of many people today, you can be part of this historic process today. yes, you can do it, do it! you have the power to bring about justice. (the speaker ends his remarks in a language which is not an official language.)
before i begin, i would like to give the floor to mr de lange, who has asked to speak under rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, on the referral to the committee on interinstitutional negotiations of his report on the typeapproval of motor vehicles. i shall also give the floor to mr kefalogiannis, pursuant to rule 59 (4), on the referral to the committee on interinstitutional negotiations of his report on the establishment of the just transition fund. these requests will then be put to the vote following the vote on the commission proposal.
rapporteur. – mr president, my italian is good enough to know that you’ve basically said it all. so i’m here in this full house as the rapporteur on the real driving emissions type approval report, and i would like to move a request for referral back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations based on rule 59(4) of the rules of procedure. you said it all, but then in italian!
the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr president, i ask for a referral to the regi committee for interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rules 59, 60 and 74.
i call the second round of voting open. you have until 6:45 to complete your voting.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children (2020/2702 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words at any of the debates of this sitting and that no blue cards will be accepted.
member of the commission. – mr president, we as adults are responsible for the safety of children. we as politicians are responsible for legislation to protect children, and, to be honest, i don’t think we are doing enough. there are people out there who use and abuse children, and we have the obligation to protect our children from these predators. in june, i spoke at the webinar jointly hosted with the european parliament intergroup on children’s rights. many experts and decision makers and our allies in the struggle spoke there – the dutch government, europol, the united states national center for missing & exploited children (ncmec) – but most impressive was the testimony of sarah. sarah is a survivor. she was groomed online as a teenager and forced into sex slavery. she said to us, ‘let my story not become a story we would hear from a friend, sister or mother’. so let’s do her justice. i know that you all feel as strongly as i do about this, but just let me repeat some of the terrible statistics. in the last 10 years, reports by internet companies of child sexual abuse increased exponentially. from 1 million to 17 million worldwide in 10 years, and from 23 000 to 725 000 in europe. european servers host the majority of this content. reports of abuse increased during covid. in the country i know best, a perpetrator posted, ‘thank you, corona. now it’s so easy to find the children.’ behind the statistics, there are real children, sometimes very small children. from the country i know best, we are seeing that, during corona, small children around the age of seven were groomed and by march the grooming of children at that age had been growing; children of that age forced to film themselves. and they were told, ‘if you tell anybody, i will kill your dog or your hamster’. you can imagine how that is for a small child. these predators have a business model that fuels this increase. closed and secret groups on the internet have an entrance fee of new and unseen material. to see videos of raped children, paedophiles must rape children. that’s how the business model works. most of the perpetrators are men, but not only men; 10% to 20% of offences are committed by women, or with the aid of women. most of the victims are girls, but not only girls. around 15% to 20% are boys. supported by europol, police forces in our member states are cracking down on abuse. the darkscandals website was taken down with more than 2 000 videos and images. this website used the slogan ‘real blackmail, rape and forced videos of girls all around the world’. police have taken down this site. the owner is now behind bars. but we need to do much more to support the police. in your resolution, this house asked us to work with industry and the big ict companies, because detection and reporting by internet companies is necessary to save children. last week, i presented a regulation, an interim solution, to make sure internet companies can continue to detect, report and remove child sexual abuse material. why am i proposing interim legislation? because of an unintended effect of the electronic communications code, and this comes into force in december this year. that would have an unintended effect: companies will no longer be allowed to pursue their voluntary efforts to detect and report child abuse online. that would pull the rug out from under our entire law enforcement effort against predators. last year, law enforcement in europe received 40 000 newly produced images and 100 000 newly produced videos, images that made it possible for authorities to find children and prosecute perpetrators. if we do not adopt that interim legislation, this will no longer be possible. i call on you to support this important regulation, which is a temporary solution until our long-term sector-specific legislation is in place. we are now working on this permanent legislation and will present it by next june, proposals that would make it mandatory for companies to detect and report known child sexual abuse materials to public authorities. current eu legislation puts strong obligations on internet companies to protect copyright – but not children who are being raped. and of course we must protect children more than we protect copyright. we also want to set up a european centre to prevent and counter child sexual abuse. in ireland, police get 80% of their tip-offs from the us-based national center for missing & exploited children, and only 20% from parents and guardians. just last friday, two men were sentenced to 13 years in prison in germany. they had had abused two girls for five years and that was thanks to a ncmec report that saved them. it’s time for europe to have its own centre, to build on europol’s work, to work with companies and law-enforcement bodies, to identify victims and bring offenders to justice. i will soon launch a study as a first step in setting up our own european centre against child sexual abuse. the eu directive on child sexual abuse dates from 2011. i will launch a study to assist its implementation and to see how and where we need to upgrade and update our legislation. we cannot allow paedophiles or perpetrators to win an online high-tech arms race. to keep one step ahead, europol will set up an innovation hub and lab. we will support member states with funding. the commission is also working with experts and industry to find technical solutions to detect and report encrypted online child sexual abuse. i must underline that this is, of course, important to do without prohibiting or weakening encryption, and in full respect of privacy. i must say, i do not accept that we have to choose between protecting children or privacy. it’s absolutely possible to combine the two. but we must also work on prevention. very often children are abused by someone they know and trust. we will create a prevention network of practitioners and researchers to share expertise to stop perpetrators from acting. we also need to encourage children, to tell them, ‘it’s not your fault’. it’s not okay what these adults are doing. we need to empower children to speak out. and i want europe to take global leadership, because abuse doesn’t stop at national or european borders. we will work together with governments, tech companies and civil society organisations worldwide. i need your help to pass this legislation. i need your help to protect children. a child has no power, and children that are abused least of all. but we do have power, so let’s use that power to protect children. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group thank you, mr president. and thank you to the commissioner for her introduction. it's to keep you quiet. i became a father for the first time this year myself, and there's nothing like that feeling. the love, the responsibility, the need to protect that you feel for your child is very special. it makes me sick to think that there are people in this world who make fun of or make money off of abusing children. and yet we see that abuse is increasing, and increasingly so, as you said. i am also glad that the commission is showing that urgency here today. i miss that urgency in the member states. it is scandalous that 23 of the 27 member states are under infringement procedures for failure to implement the 2011 child abuse directive. what's the point of making deals with everyone here if no one's gonna follow through? child pornography must be discovered, reported and removed as soon as possible. hosting companies have a critical role to play in this, and they have to take that responsibility, whether they want to or not. we have to force them to do it. and that has to be with rules and with "naming and shaming". in the netherlands, a blacklist of non-cooperative hosting companies will soon be published, and i would also like to propose to support such an initiative in europe. in conclusion: encryption. you've already said, encryption is extremely important to protecting our privacy. but at the moment it is also a shield behind which child molesters can hide. we'll have to figure that out. a child who is abused is marked for life and as the commissioner rightly said, we are not doing enough at the moment to prevent that. please let today be the last day we have to say this.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not sexual offences against children are heinous crimes with serious consequences for the victims. and we need to fight the sharing of images online, without forgetting that child abuse happens in our neighborhood - by parents, neighbors, caregivers, priests. looking the other way and not saying anything is not an option here or there. in 2011, we already adopted a directive on the protection of children against sexual abuse. but the vast majority of member states have not managed to implement it in nine years. there is also a massive need to catch up in the areas of prevention, support and protection of children, and the harmonisation of offences and penalties. the commission has therefore had to initiate infringement proceedings against 23 member states last year after nine years. child protection is an important issue. and we need to do more online. but at the same time, we must not give rise to false expectations, for there is no magic bullet that will make the images disappear. confidentiality of communications, privacy is important for our children, too, online. for example, encryption can prevent images that young people exchange with each other from being intercepted by perpetrators and shared with third parties. so it's very clear: we need to do a better job of protecting our children online as well as offline. laws need to be implemented, prevention agencies need to be funded, law enforcement agencies need to be adequately staffed, funded and equipped to better protect our children and their playgrounds offline and online.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, what’s in a number, dear colleagues? if i told you that the number of reports of child sexual abuse has increased to nearly 70 million in 2019, would you believe it? or if i told you that, according to the council of europe, one out of five children falls victim to sexual violence. would you believe it? what if i told you that europe is the biggest hub for child pornography, that can’t be true, right? the list of these numbers goes on and on. sixty per cent of worldwide child sexual abuse content is circulating in europe. isn’t that staggering? let it be clear. sexual abuse of children is not just one of the 99 problems. it is ‘the’ problem that all european decision makers have to face, and the fight against it must be our priority. therefore, i would like to thank you, commissioner johansson, for the bold and concrete steps forward in the fight against child sexual abuse. this is a strong, balanced and comprehensive strategy. but this alone is not enough. we all know that, we all have to play a role in this fight. i am fully convinced that a dedicated eu centre will be a major added value in the fight against these terrible crimes. commissioner johansson, i fully support your strategy. you can count on me, on us, on renew europe and on the intergroup on children’s rights to implement it. if we don’t do it, who will do it? so european leadership please, you can count on us.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, it is painful to be involved in a debate on paedophilia and the sexual abuse of minors the day after this european parliament condemned poland for trying to pass a law against paedophilia. you've spent years and years exposing sex as something banal, hypersexualizing society, considering sex not part of that inviolable dignity of the human being. look, stop talking, this is a serious problem affecting hundreds of thousands of children in europe and it has developed with the complicit silence of authorities and the media. there are the cases of telford and rotherham, which were shamefully silenced by the media because the pimps and abusers were of pakistani origin; or in my country, spain, in the balearic islands, where we have a case of dozens of girls prostituted in social care centres which the leftwing governments are rejecting and in which they are paralysing judicial and administrative investigation. the european commission also said nothing about this case of child prostitutes in the balearic islands when i asked it, on behalf of vox, in january. less talk, more law and order, harsher penalties, full compliance. we are lagging behind european civilization.
mr. chairman ! millions of children are sexually abused each year. millions of children are exploited online every year. every year, we hear of cases of child abuse in the place where children should feel most secure - the family. every year, we hear of thousands of pedophiles who evade prosecution. and ladies and gentlemen, nobody here has said that the experience of violence in childhood leaves a permanent mark on a child's psyche, causes a spiral, or leads to a spiral of violence, and also to numerous suicides. so i support all those who say that the data of a pedophile should absolutely not be kept secret, it should be made public. no pedophile, no matter what his background, profession, or where he lives, can use violence. ladies and gentlemen, the best law - and i say this to my polish friends - will not protect our children if it is not applied equally to all pedophiles, is it... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, after reading and listening to the commission's communication, we should not only be horrified, we should be ashamed of our inability to assume the responsibilities that fall to us in this matter. europe has become the world centre for the distribution of child pornography. this is the case when 23 of the 27 member states - as has been pointed out - have not transposed the directive on combating sexual abuse. we need to increase the penalties for such behaviour and harmonise the types of penalties. we need to establish a legal framework quickly so that internet service providers can act more effectively in this area. it is essential that we support more and work closely with civil society organisations who are also in this fight. we need new instruments for crossborder judicial cooperation and we need to strengthen the competence of europol, which has proved to be a privileged instrument for its effectiveness in police cooperation. we must declare war on all those who every year destroy the lives of thousands of children.
madam president, i would like to thank you. moria is not an unfortunate development. moria is a political choice made by the commission, together with the member states. it's supposed to discourage, dehumanize and treat people as if they're not human at all. i would like to say here in the european parliament that it is a shame that my country, sweden, has not offered to take in a single person affected by moria. but it is also shameful that the commission is now saying that we are going to build a new camp on lesbos. we're not having any camps. we're closing the camps. we are evacuating moria. we are going to agree on a policy, a model to be presented next week, based on sharing the responsibility for the reception - a dignified reception - where we treat people who come to europe the way we ourselves would like to be treated. it's no more difficult than that, and there can be no camps in it. as a former colleague said: it's the year 2020. this is europe. this continent should have no camps.
madam president, the moria camp was designed to hold 2,800 people. when it burned, 13,000 refugees were living in this camp, the largest in europe, in inhumane conditions, with no drinking water, with rationed food, with a toilet for 150 people and a shower for 500. when the camp was closed because of covid, violence increased and mental health issues exploded. who is responsible for this humanitarian catastrophe? the european union can no longer hide its responsibility, our asylum policy is directly responsible for this shame. what was burned in the camp of moria was our collective dignity. we urgently need a common reception programme, a much more solidary asylum policy which obliges all the member states of the european union to assume their share of responsibility and which takes into account the capacities of regional and local governments. spain wouldn't take one of moria's refugees? without effective defence of human rights, the european union is useless, let us not forget.
madam president, commissioner johansson, the tragedy in moria was perfectly predictable and was announced: 12 000 people without a roof, without medicine... there have been 25 000 women locked up in a camp of misery, and that is completely incompatible with europe, whether in lesbos, lampedusa, argu­gu­ine, the canary islands. shame, shame, schande, shame, shame is the cry of the european citizenry who thinks that if we are not able to close all the 'morias', what should be closed is this european parliament, the european commission, the whole of the european union. but the answer can only be to change the way we look at it, which means changing the policy: from a policy of rejection to a policy of humanity and humanitarianism. in the long term, that requires addressing the root causes, in the middle east, in africa, in the mediterranean, including turkey. in the medium term, the new european pact on immigration and asylum calls for a european rescue and salvage mechanism at sea that does not criminalize saving lives, with binding solidarity and shared responsibility. and legal channels and humanitarian visas. but in the short term, we must demand that the greek authorities respect human rights and we must certainly say no to unwarranted returns. but there is also an urgent need for rehousing, not piecemeal or stale: 400 unaccompanied minors, 1600 before the end of the year. the 12 000 people who are being housed there are in need of mandatory and permanent relocation in all the member states of the european union. only then will it be possible to no more moria, never again.
madam president, the moria camp is a tragedy, but it is a tragedy that it existed. it was burned by those inside, because they wanted to speed up their illegal entry into a continent that cannot accommodate all the other continents, although we have here a number of people representing, with that moral superiority, apparently, those who want to welcome everyone who wants to come. because they don't fit. and see if we have a little respect for the europeans. let us see if we respect the greeks, who are suffering, because their habitat has been destroyed on lesbos and on so many other islands. why don't we go back to the roots? why don't we look at turkey, which has been manipulating these refugees, these illegal immigrants who are piling up there, who have no right to asylum, none of them, who should have been deported and taken to their countries of origin a long time ago, but who are used by turkey? why did you all condemn turkey yesterday and now you are passing a resolution where there is not a single sanction against turkey? why is there not even a sanction against turkey? why don't we go to the source and weep and try to bring all the continents here to europe to destroy europe?
madam president, madam commissioner, if the previous situation was already catastrophic, the burning and destruction of the moria refugee camp makes it necessary to urgently re-examine the situation of the refugees trapped on lesbos. our group has no qualms about saying that we do not want another camp like moria. moriah was not a reception camp. it was a concentration camp, with the suspension of basic human rights, overcrowding and unsanitary conditions, and that is why it is necessary to consider the emergency evacuation of all refugees in moria. in this sense, the relocation of all asylum seekers to safe conditions in other member states of the union is necessary, because it is a responsibility of the union. and these actions must be taken as soon as possible, without waiting for another state of emergency, as was about to happen last tuesday. hundreds of municipalities and regions in the union have expressed their interest in receiving asylum seekers and this requires the activation of a relocation plan, including the creation of the necessary infrastructure. and it is the member states that must show the will, but it is the commission that has to exert positive political pressure to make this possible. it is urgent, it must be done now, and let us hope that action in this direction will open the door to a new european migration policy which regards the right to migrate as a basic human right.
madam president, commissioner johansson, what has happened in moria and what is happening daily on the southern border of europe is well known. and it is a consequence of the ineffectiveness and the shameful role of the european union, which for years has tolerated the confinement of migrants in inhuman conditions. what is the european union waiting for to act? what's the point? what we're crying about here today could have been solved yesterday. that is why the european union and the states should ensure the resettlement of all moria refugees today, introduce permanent and binding resettlement mechanisms without further delay and end the violations of the rights of migrants and asylum seekers. we cannot fall into the cynical attitude of lecturing third countries on justice and human rights when it is obvious that we do not respect them either at our own borders or in several of our member states.
madam president, moria was already hell before it burned. the moria fire is not news, its very existence is: over 13,000 people in a camp with a capacity of 4,000. it's not an accident. it is the direct consequence of the european union's harmful, hostile policies on migration and borders. we continue to export weapons to countries in conflict, we continue to plunder resources and fuel wars from which millions of people are fleeing, and when they arrive - those who arrive - we put them in tents in inhuman conditions and deny them the right to seek asylum. we must immediately relocate each and every one of these people, not just boys and girls, and not just from moria, but also from samos, from chios, from calais and from all the camps that stretch across our territory. we must end the militarization of the borders. we must fight effectively against the mafia, offer legal and safe routes and guarantee a pact on migration and asylum. the president of the commission said yesterday in this house that the european union had challenges ahead. the european union has challenges and obligations today, here, in the present: to respect and to comply with international law. we can't look to the future by watching death pass by. we are accomplices, and today that complicity kills.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, cyclones, plural; cholera, malaria, covid-19, plural; violence, plural: terrorist violence, in the north, political violence, in the center, institutional violence, in the elections and i regret that there is no greater reference to this issue; lack of food distribution; accusations of torture to the security forces; political corruption in all areas; journalists attacked and media set on fire; western companies plundering natural resources and uncontrollable drug trafficking. it's like an epitome, like a summary of all the ills of africa, but concentrated in time and space. mozambique was once a great hope for the european union, and the european union made a great financial and political investment in mozambique, and we are where we are. that means we have to change our perspective completely. what has been done so far is not enough. we must demand change, and the existence of violence cannot be an excuse to stop demanding the reforms that this country needs. because if we do not reform at the institutional level, the situation of violence, hunger and lack of respect for human rights will not be manageable. the european union must therefore change its approach to mozambique. not just aid: demand for reforms
replacing the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. madam president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr włodzimierz cimoszewicz, who is unable to be here today and i am therefore speaking in his place. indeed, ladies and gentlemen, nothing characterizes our union more than its values. and so, with this first report from the european commission on the rule of law, we can say that we have entered a new phase - 'slightly, everything can be improved' - a phase that is no longer just the stability and growth pact, the fiscal and budgetary rules and the european semester, but the 'let's wait' phase of the six-monthly or annual cycle of rights. i also welcome the legislative own-initiative report drawn up by parliament, which proposes precisely what the commissioner referred to in his final part of the speech: that interinstitutional agreement which is essential to be able to defend effectively the rights and values of the union. a final point: it is very important that when this rule of law mechanism identifies serious breaches of article 2, infringement proceedings before the court of justice are initiated by the commission and, where appropriate, also budgetary conditionality and the activation of article 7 of the treaty.
madam president, the truth is that in a debate like this one cannot help but ask when it became normal for us to discuss the need for the rule of law in europe. at what point did we accept that two far-right governments impose their agenda and normalize the breach of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union? the fact is that i feel that, at bottom, what we are doing here is agreeing how indifferent we are going to be to the violation of rights in certain states. for example, how indifferent we are going to be to hungary gassing migrants at its border, or how indifferent we are to poland declaring areas free of lgbt people. moreover, how indifferent we are to those who hate us, to women. in short, what is being discussed here is a false choice to access public money. but there's no room for middle positions. human rights are either fulfilled or not fulfilled. and it is our duty to enforce them. the vague formula they put forward in the council makes them, in effect, accomplices.
in writing. article 2 of the treaty sets out the eu's core values and the role of the european commission, which is to ensure that the treaties are complied with. a strong commission is essential for the proper functioning of the union, which cannot be constrained by council blocks. the debate on the rule of law is perhaps of greater importance at the moment because it relates to the issues that will certainly be the most important in the years ahead: the financial framework, own resources and the recovery plan. we do not have to choose between democratic quality and economic recovery, both are possible and that is why we ask for responsibility, against feeding divisions and not taking democracy for granted in the face of the rise of populisms. we consider it important that this message reaches the citizens and that is why we insist that the final recipients of the funds are not harmed. the s&d group has been calling for a rule of law mechanism linked to the budget for a long time and we finally have a proposal to start negotiating with. it is important to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that the programmes can start without delay.
in writing. article 2 of the treaty sets out the eu's core values and the role of the european commission, which is to ensure that the treaties are complied with. a strong commission is essential for the proper functioning of the union, which cannot be constrained by council blocks. the debate on the rule of law is perhaps of greater importance at the moment because it relates to the issues that will surely be the most important for the coming years: the financial framework, own resources and the recovery plan. we do not have to choose between democratic quality and economic recovery, but both are possible and that is why we ask for responsibility, not to fuel divisions and not to take democracy for granted in the face of the rise of populisms. we consider it important that this message reaches the citizens and that is why we insist that the final recipients of the funds are not harmed. our group has been calling for a rule of law mechanism linked to the budget for a long time and we finally have a proposal to start negotiating with. it is now important to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that the programmes can start without delay.
in writing. article 2 of the treaty sets out the eu's core values and the role of the european commission, which is to ensure that the treaties are complied with. a strong commission is essential for the proper functioning of the union, which cannot be constrained by council blocks. the debate on the rule of law is perhaps of greater importance at the moment because it relates to the issues that will surely be the most important for the coming years: the financial framework, own resources and the recovery plan. we do not have to choose between democratic quality and economic recovery, but both are possible and that is why we ask for responsibility, not to fuel divisions and not to take democracy for granted in the face of the rise of populisms. we consider it important that this message reaches the citizens and that is why we insist that the final recipients of the funds are not harmed. our group has been calling for a rule of law mechanism linked to the budget for a long time and we finally have a proposal to start negotiating with. it is now important to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that the programmes can start without delay.
in writing. article 2 of the treaty sets out the eu's core values and the role of the european commission, which is to ensure that the treaties are complied with. a strong commission is essential for the proper functioning of the union, which cannot be constrained by council blocks. the debate on the rule of law is perhaps of greater importance at the moment because it relates to the issues that will surely be the most important for the coming years: the financial framework, own resources and the recovery plan. we do not have to choose between democratic quality and economic recovery, but both are possible and that is why we ask for responsibility, not to fuel divisions and not to take democracy for granted in the face of the rise of populisms. we consider it important that this message reaches the citizens and that is why we insist that the final recipients of the funds are not harmed. our group has been calling for a rule of law mechanism linked to the budget for a long time and we finally have a proposal to start negotiating with. it is now important to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that the programmes can start without delay.
in writing. the presence of women on boards is an initiative of the commission from 2012, which the european parliament supported in 2013. the proposal for a directive has since been blocked in the council, as some countries do not agree with the 40% quota for both genders in management posts. the president of the commission announced, on taking office, the priority of this issue, which, when the directive is adopted, would oblige the presence of that 40% in 2020. almost all european countries are far from this objective (iceland and france are ahead, the european average is 28.7% and spain is 27.4%) and experience shows that self-regulation has not resulted in substantial progress, while legislative developments in some countries have brought about notable changes. the spanish socialist delegation supports this initiative on the grounds of social and economic justice, as it is estimated that the inclusion of women on boards would increase the eu's gdp per capita by between 6.1 and 9.6% by 2050.
madam president, at the european summit president sánchez asked this parliament to work quickly to ensure that the money for the european plans is available from 1 january, and mr michel also told us that today. we share, i think, the urgency of this situation and we assure the council that we will do our part; the negotiating teams are working tirelessly to achieve this. but the council and the member states must also do their part. the council must stop blocking the rule of law mechanism, which is so important in preventing money from being used to infringe citizens' rights. and the council must also work with us to develop transparent and demanding rules, which ensure that european money is spent to transform our economies, for the benefit of all. each country must also play its part. we have nine days left until the deadline to deliver the recovery plans, and they must be coherent, transformative, ambitious plans to rebuild our economies for the benefit of all. mr michel is right when he says that the citizens expect us to act, but they also expect us to invest their money well, and we must work together to do that.
madam president, beyond the economic volume or the percentages of financial allocation to sectoral policies, i would like to stress the importance of the participation of the european regions in the management of the future recovery and resilience mechanism. since the beginning of the covid crisis, most regions and local authorities have been at the forefront of the needs of the population, some of them even managing key competences such as health, education or the social sphere. regional administrations therefore know their communities best and have experience in managing european funds. the inclusion of the regions in the management of the funds would allow us to speed up and carry out more projects, thus giving the european union more credibility. ladies and gentlemen, the management of the crisis has made clear the need for greater coordination, but at the same time for greater multi-level governance. only then will we be able to tackle the multiple consequences of the crisis, which has impacted our regions in different ways. some of the amendments to the commission's text, now under negotiation in the european parliament, already contain this proposal. we hope that they will be adopted and that the council will also take them into consideration. thinking globally to act locally is more necessary than ever.
madam president, europe has the opportunity and the responsibility today to decide who it is and how it contributes to the world; it is making a living at it. reconstruction plans: from the determination to face the pandemic in a united way, we must move to the facts, and for that it is necessary to immediately carry out the reconstruction plans. we cannot afford to emerge from this new crisis with a new gap in inequality, and for that we need to guarantee public services, to reactivate the care economy; that the energy transition and digitisation do not become the business of a few and that they serve to strengthen industry, that they also look at the primary sector, to fix the population on the territory, to youth employment and to achieve the objectives against climate change. we need a clear-eyed, autonomous foreign policy. but first of all we must put an end to the shame of this europe: respect for human rights in our own country, so that we can call ourselves human; immediate relocation of all refugee camps; legal and safe ways. no more morias, no more deaths, no more shame.
madam president, we in this parliament are tired of seeing the progressive consensus treat the european union's full partners worse than openly hostile nations such as turkey or china. here the worst accusations are being levelled against our polish, hungarian, greek or bulgarian friends, while the chinese communist regime is being applauded or, on the contrary, peace is being sought with turkey, surrendering every day. turkey's attacks on our sovereignty, our borders and our culture are not just provocations, as has been said this weekend, they are genuine hostile acts by a regime which despises us, while we are still negotiating its accession to the european union and while sacks of money are still being sent from brussels - money which our employers and workers need at this very moment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and council, enough of the threats to those who do not submit to your ideological agenda, to the point of saying that some countries will be excluded from the recovery fund because they do not meet your demands, while billions are being thrown into third countries where human rights are systematically violated. i think the time has come: the europeans are demanding that we put our feet on the ground and that you get off your secular paradise.
madam president, have you ever had that dream where you have to run, but something stops you and you can't go on? i think that is the feeling i have about certain debates in the european parliament, for example the climate objectives which will be discussed in the council next week. on the one hand, we are pushing for a reasonable climate law, but on the other hand, we are in favour of a just transition fund, which is unfair and has little transition to a low-emission energy model, because it continues to dop gas. or we continue to sign free trade agreements that make the oranges we eat, which are from south africa, have a carbon footprint that far exceeds the total production of my home country, valencia. that's not to mention the destruction of farmers' rights or the abuse of arbitration tribunals. i have a very specific doubt which i would have liked to put to the council directly, but as my colleague has said, they are not here. but, well, i'm still going to formulate it. it's simple: what glue are you going to use to make climate targets compatible with the unjust transition fund or the escalation of free trade agreements? and, above all, how will you make sure that what you tell us does not look like a flyer?
in writing. the european council of 1 and 2 october focused on a number of themes. the foreign policy debate covered the struggle for democracy in belarus, relations with turkey, the poisoning of alexei navalny and eu-china relations. on the internal policy front, the formulas for strengthening the single market and how to develop a more ambitious industrial policy by making eu industries more competitive on a global scale and boosting digital transformation were discussed. the spanish socialist delegation asks the council to intervene to ensure fair and free elections in belarus. in the case of turkey, it must respect international law by returning to dialogue and cooperation. we stand for strategic autonomy that will enable us to rebuild our industrial and digital independence in the face of future crises, guaranteeing social cohesion, building a single market that meets the objectives of the european green deal and ensuring a just digital transition that leaves no one behind. that is why we need a strengthened budget of the european union for the next seven years and the recovery plan to be available as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president. forests occupy about 45% of the european union’s territory. forestry is a place of work: the wood-based industry employs 2.5 million people; about 500 000 european foresters work directly in the forest. the forest is a place for rest, recreation and contact with nature for almost 500 million european citizens, because everybody has some contact with forests. the gross value added from forestry directly is eur 26.5 billion, and about eur 142 billion from the wood-based sector. this is a very important sector. of course, the forest plays a very important role in the protection of biodiversity, climate protection, water management, air protection, etc. i hope this own initiative report will be adopted by the european parliament, because it will be very helpful and inspiring for the forest strategy being prepared by the commission. this strategy will be published in the first quarter of 2021. the main direction of this strategy is defined in the green deal communication, which mentioned that, building on the 23rd biodiversity strategy, the commission would prepare a new forest strategy covering the whole forest cycle and promoting the many services that forests provide. the biodiversity strategy also mentioned that the eu must increase the quantity, quality and resilience of its forest, notably against fires, droughts, pests and diseases, and other threats likely to increase with climate change. there is a strong link between forestry and agriculture and the farm to fork strategy. agroforestry was listed as a potential eco-scheme – a very important part of the first pillar of the common agricultural policy – and the commission will propose agroforestry as a potential eco-scheme in the recommendation to the member states for their national strategic plans. as president von der leyen stated in her recent state of the union speech, our current levels of consumption of raw materials, energy, water, food and land use are not sustainable. we need to change how we treat nature, how we produce and consume. securing the health and resilience of existing and new forests, including under novel climatic conditions in the future, is crucial for their effective support to all the environmental, social and economic functions and services that forests provide to our society. this is why forests are an integral part of the european green deal and its eu biodiversity strategy 2030, which reiterates that forests are hugely important for biodiversity, climate and water regulation, the provision of food, medicines and materials, carbon sequestration and storage, soil stabilisation and the purification of air and water. they are also a natural home for recreation and learning about nature, while culture and heritage are preserved. with lively rural areas and wealthy rural populations, they offer opportunities for people and the planet. against the wider context that i outlined above, the eu forest strategy will reflect the importance of forests for achieving the different objectives and priorities of the european green deal. it will require a holistic approach carried out for, on the one hand, sustainable forest management that improves both their quantity and quality and, on the other hand, the multifunctional role of forests for the economic sector and communities that depend on them. key objectives of the new eu forest strategy will be effective re- and afforestation, as well as forest preservation and restoration in europe. furthermore, the aim is to help increase absorption of co2, reduce the incidence and extent of forest fires and other climate-related pressures, and promote the circular bioeconomy in full respect of ecological principles favourable to biodiversity. the strategy will need the right balance and synergies between the different socioeconomic interests related to forests and the need to increase our forest protection and restoration efforts to achieve our climate and biodiversity goals. the forest strategy will need to have a strong protection and restoration dimension in strong cooperation with foresters and local communities. in line with the biodiversity strategy, the last remaining primary and old growth forests in the eu need to be protected. an inclusive process has already started, involving member states and all stakeholders, to achieve that. in addition, some parts of the new protected areas under the regular protection regime will probably also need to include forests. the upcoming forest strategy will also include a roadmap for planting at least three billion additional trees – maybe more – in the eu by 2030, in full respect of ecological principles. this was a key commitment in the biodiversity strategy to deliver on green deal objectives and thus contribute to both climate mitigation and adaptation and revert biodiversity loss. in parallel, the eu forest strategy will have to have a strong economic dimension. it has to lay the foundations for innovation and the promotion of new products, and to replace the intensive fossil-based materials and effectively contribute to a new low carbon society. as an example, president von der leyen referred in her state of the union speech to turning the construction sector from a carbon source to a carbon sink by applying organic building materials like wood. moreover, under the cap, the eu will also increasingly have to help to ensure that forestry in the eu, together with agriculture, is socially, economically and environmentally sustainable, supporting and strengthening the benefits that forestry brings to european society and providing sustainable economic rewards for farmers, forest managers and the eu as a whole. overall, let me conclude, the new eu forest strategy will aim to build sustainable forest management and, aligned with relevant eu international commitments, the strategy’s principles and objectives should also help inform eu policy relevant to forests and the forest sector. it is essential to ensure consistency on eu forest-related policies and the action on internal forests. we will take the european parliament’s resolution fully into account when developing the upcoming forest strategy, as well as the recently adopted resolution on the commission’s communication on stepping up action to protect the world’s forests, which we welcome. the commission looks forward to working closely together with the european parliament on the future strategy.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the forest is amazing, and it's good that the forest is hot on the political agenda. it's clear that because it offers us recreation, it gives us hunting opportunities, and it's a great opportunity to conserve biodiversity, to build more climate-smart, and to have reasonable carbon sinks that help us with the big climate challenges. in this case, we have to strike a balance in the future so that none of these factors dominates the others. it's also about continuing to show responsibility and seeing that the forest looks very, very different. parts of europe have been deforesting themselves for centuries or millennia, while in sweden we now plant two new trees for every one cut down. this means that in the last 100 years we have more than doubled our forest mass in sweden, while preserving more of the forest for biodiversity values and also getting more out of the forest materials, which allows us to replace fossil-based materials in both construction and the chemical industry. here we have an opportunity for the future, and we must make sure that we do not put ourselves in the way.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. forests in europe have many functions: they produce wood, they absorb co2, they emit oxygen, they are recreational areas, they are places of experience, and they protect people from natural forces and from avalanches. the latter is particularly true of mountain and alpine forests and the european union's forestry strategy should also have a special focus on these forests. the already difficult economic situation of the forest and the wood is even more complicated there: the harvest is expensive and the transport routes are often long. nevertheless, these forests should and must be managed. only by regularly rejuvenating themselves can they fulfill this protective function. in addition, these forests are often used to produce high-quality wood and are also important sources of energy. and often, innovative cycles have also emerged, local cycles that help to replace imported oil, gas, concrete, plastic or steel with indigenous wood. in these alpine regions we also have functioning forestry services that already ensure sustainability. we do not need to play the role of great teachers here in brussels and create new rules. instead, we should use our opportunities - the cap, the structural funds, horizon - to promote innovative ideas and projects locally and thus also make local wood use interesting.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already done so. the concept of sustainability has its roots in forestry as early as 1713. of course, our understanding of this is not the same as it was 300 years ago. we need to adapt management to the changing challenges. climate and nature conservation rightly deserve more attention today. the effects of climate change are making forests more vulnerable to pests and forest fires, for example. through research and practice, we now also know more about the specific factors and ecosystem services of the forest: recreation for people, the importance of healthy soils, humus formation, water reserves available to plants, site-adapted tree species. a one-sided focus on a carbon sink is far too short. i am opposed to making the forests strictly protected areas. forests are not static natural history museums. the cultural landscape is constantly changing. only by active management can we meet the challenges. our forests provide raw materials, they complete the resource cycle, they provide an economic location for rural areas. forestry strategy must respond to these developments and bring the different functions of forests to their full potential. our report has shown balance and is pointing in the right direction.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i fully support mr sarvamaa's report on the forestry strategy, and i do so for two main reasons. firstly, although there are aspects of it which i do not share, i believe that it is a very balanced and constructive text which must form the basis of the future european forestry strategy. and secondly, i support this report because, as rapporteur for the ecr group, i have been able to see firsthand the flexibility of the rapporteur in trying to integrate the main demands of all the groups into the final text. however, despite the rapporteur's concessions to the greens - which i consider excessive and unjustified - they have not been enough to satisfy the insatiable appetite to which the greens and others are accustomed. they want it all or nothing. i am surprised that the groups which talk most about dialogue, consensus and understanding in this house are then the first to boycott all those reports where they do not get 100% of their demands.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, this act is a historic milestone. we are looking at the legal basis that will guide us to climate neutrality in 2050, the cornerstone of the european green deal and our fight against climate change. the climate act will force us to review other regulations, to increase our renewables, energy efficiency and grid connection targets - we will do this in the itre commission, which is also progressive - and to improve policies that preserve our biodiversity. it is an opportunity for a committed europe, state by state, with a new clean economy. i would like to thank vice-president timmermans and certainly my socialist group and the rapporteur, mrs jytte guteland, and all the groups who believe that the time has come to act. we're going to set the pace for our planet to slow its warming and meet the paris agreement. this act will demonstrate europe's leadership in the face of the forthcoming international climate summits; others are already beginning to follow our path. the current crisis must not be a brake on ambition. we must demonstrate this with this law, and show thousands and thousands of young europeans who have made their voices heard in the streets that we are with them. their future is europe. one last thought. there is no plausible climate ambition without social justice. we will vote for ambition and realism. we've already shown that the economy can improve as we reduce emissions. let's do it together by supporting whoever it costs the most. there is no green pact without a red heart. we must recover by driving a new clean and innovative economy, which is also fair and supportive. i ask the council, the commission and this parliament not to delay this date any further, not to keep the earth waiting any longer.
i have to say, madam president, yes, if we're going to make a climate bill, we have to make it right. that means that we don't allow gas to get into this bill at any point, that we're going to go with gas. what we have to focus on is renewable energy, and we have to do it consistently. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. and let's be honest, gas is about as climate friendly as, say, cola light is healthy. methane emissions, co2 emissions -- that's gas, and coke is a risk factor for diabetes. i therefore urge you to vote against every single amendment which relies on gas and tries to let it in through the back door. let's be clear: we need to take bold, decisive action to protect the climate. we need real energy efficiency practices in our homes, in all our buildings. we need strong infrastructure for renewables, and above all we need to fight energy poverty. what we also need to do is to stop talking about technology neutrality so that fossil fuels are not favored any more. one thing is certain, and we can see this in this law: the market does not decide everything on its own, and certainly not when it comes to climate neutrality.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are disappointed by a european union which, when it comes to assessing the rule of law, is silent about the political prisoners of the spanish state. but there is also the union which gives us hope, and the european law on climate change is the best example of this. it is perhaps the most important piece of legislation of the entire term of office, one of the most far-reaching that this parliament has ever voted on. we welcome the fact that it incorporates some of our amendments. the climate neutral union by 2050 and we want to achieve this without jeopardising the competitiveness of our companies or the cohesion of our societies. on the contrary, this historic transition must help us to build an economy that is not only greener but also more equal and more efficient. let us make the new green deal an opportunity to transform european society so that it becomes a more just society. and we 're running out of time . the paris agreement may seem very ambitious if we think about the work that lies ahead. but it's a de minimis goal when you think about it from a scientific point of view. we're late and we have to act immediately!
madam president, the fight against climate change is a task for all of us. we support the efforts and leadership of the european union to undertake a transformation towards a more circular, cleaner, responsible economy that takes care of our health and takes care of our planet. the european union must take the lead in the fight against climate change, but without losing sight of the competitiveness of businesses and job creation. many people are involved in this transition: workers, entrepreneurs, selfemployed, farmers, fishermen, transport operators, young people, all families. all the measures we take must be taken with all the actors, through dialogue, seeking social acceptance and support. we have been talking for a long time about strengthening industrial policy. today there are two thousand workers on strike in spain for the closure of the intensive aluminum production plant in galicia. one of the reasons for the closure has to do with energy costs. the european industry cannot continue to bleed, especially when it is exposed to unfair competition from third countries. we therefore need to accelerate the clean economy, digitalisation, but we also need to strengthen our industrial base and our strategic autonomy, so that the weight of industry reaches 20% of the total national wealth of the member states: this is compatible. we must take concrete action now, be consistent in setting new climate targets, and we cannot pretend that the covid-19 pandemic and brexit don't exist. in these times, especially difficult, let us leave no one behind.
madam president, when we hear about science, we always think, coming from the left, that it is ideology, and that is what happens - we are seeing it in spain continuously - how they protect themselves behind the so-called science, to do barbarities, all the possible arbitrariness with ideology. the debate on the european climate law is already showing clearly the weaknesses of a european union that is subject to the dictates of a new and reinforced green ideology or religion. this climate submission in the european union, in the midst of a pandemic, with immense problems, is not going to bring stability or legal certainty or a long-term vision based on that scientific evidence. of course, sovereignty is not respected, subsidiarity is not respected, common sense is not respected, and, in the end, above all, the interests of europeans are not respected, which are not taken into account when playing with the emission ceilings; we are talking about a reduction of 55, then 60, then, who knows, maybe 70. that is a lack of respect for the interests of the european peoples. all that is not science, it's pure ideology.
in writing. one of the eu's priority objectives is to combat climate change. the european climate law is therefore of fundamental importance for our future. this law is the cornerstone of the european green deal and will enshrine in european legislation the objective of achieving climate neutrality in the eu by 2050 at the latest. we must support this landmark proposal which will make europe a world leader and a benchmark in achieving climate neutrality. this should also serve to strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and to achieve an economic and digital transition. this act should provide a framework to boost new opportunities and put the eu at the forefront of innovation and clean technologies. to do this, we need to create the right economic incentives and promote investment in innovation. it is our obligation to ensure a just transition with the appropriate support for the regions, sectors and citizens most affected. we must all work together to make this law a reality and make it a european success story for our citizens.
the conflict in the south caucasus has been unresolved for more than three decades, mr president, another conflict in the european union's neighbourhood: armenia and azerbaijan, two of the most militarized countries in the world; nagorno-karabakh, a political disputed enclave, a corridor for gas pipelines from the caspian sea to world markets; russia, the region's largest arms exporter; turkey, which is trying to reposition itself as a key player in the caucasus by destabilizing the region, and this must end. this escalation of conflict and aggression has the potential to create thousands of refugees and internally displaced persons. we are clearly supporting the request of the un and the high representative and are calling for an immediate ceasefire, an end to hostilities, and a return to the negotiating table within the framework of the minsk group without preconditions, as armenia has already declared that it is prepared to do. the european union must be involved, in a coordinated way, in collaboration with regional bodies, civil society and neighbouring countries. after 17 years of neighbourhood policy we have more conflict on our borders. european countries are divided on their foreign policy. the european union, on the outside, is increasingly irrelevant. we need a new neighbourhood policy, cooperative and not competitive, based on the principles of human security, of the populations, a culture of peace and disarmament, with economic development always to the mutual benefit. if not, we will continue to suffer the consequences.
mr president, mr borrell was referring to the enormous amount of propaganda surrounding the conflict and the difficulty in establishing the facts. so a good analysis is surely appropriate. this is certainly not a religious war, as has sometimes been suggested, creating a crusade, nor do i think it is particularly useful to talk about the mass ethnic killings of a century ago. it's a conflict that grew out of the soviet union and its dissolution, and it's a demonstration that what we call frozen conflicts, in this climate of global geopolitical warming, can thaw and create conflict immediately. the participation of turkey. a first effect of this debate is that almost no one talks about azerbaijan, baku or aliyev; it seems to be a conflict between turkey and armenia and we leave out one of the main actors. the main issue of turkey's participation, even if participation could not be confirmed with the military deployment, is the bellicose rhetoric. turkey is the only country in the world that has joined the war rhetoric and not the universal chorus of voices that is calling for a ceasefire, de-escalation and the resumption of negotiations. that is our role, mr borrell: in this new climate with turkey, to demand that turkey join the international community in this position.
in writing. the azerbaijani invasion of nagorno-karabakh has already claimed several hundred lives, including civilians. churches and cultural monuments have been destroyed. the international community, including the european union, should not stand by but must actively engage to end the fighting and investigate possible crimes. violence is never the answer, it can only be found at the negotiating table.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the eu's diplomatic mission to venezuela in view of the possible elections (2020/2810 ((rsp)). the procedure for blue cards and spontaneous speeches is the same as in the other debates.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i think i can speak in spanish because i believe that the majority of members who are going to follow this debate speak spanish very well. so, if you don’t mind, i will use the spanish language, which, after all, is the second most spoken language in the world. señor presidente, señoras y señores diputados, este pleno ha abordado ya muchas veces las diversas crisis que golpean a venezuela. y el paulatino colapso de lo que una vez fue uno de los países más ricos del mundo occidental, del hemisferio occidental, es hoy una de las grandes tragedias de nuestra época, por lo que no puedo sino compartir su interés y su preocupación por la situación en la que se encuentra el pueblo de venezuela. y no solo venezuela, sino toda la región, que se ve afectada por el número extraordinario de personas que han dejado ese país. conocemos de sobra la situación en venezuela: cómo la sociedad venezolana se encuentra profundamente fracturada, también políticamente. ni siquiera la propia oposición tiene la unidad necesaria para hacer frente a esta dramática situación; una situación que nos han descrito bien los recientes informes de la misión de investigación y, sobre todo, de la oficina del alto comisionado de las naciones unidas para los derechos humanos. y es obvio decir ⸺lo hemos dicho muchas veces⸺ que condenamos la violación de los derechos humanos en venezuela y por esta razón es por la que hemos estado trabajando con la sociedad civil de ese país desde hace mucho tiempo y en particular durante este verano. no voy a detenerme en explicar cuál es la situación política en venezuela —la conocen ustedes de sobra—, pero quiero centrar mi intervención en el título de la interpelación y explicarles el desarrollo de los acontecimientos desde el pasado mes de julio, cuando empezamos una tarea, en coordinación con los estados miembros de la unión europea y con el apoyo de los socios latinoamericanos del grupo internacional de contacto, para tratar de ayudar a encontrar una solución democrática y pacífica a la situación por la que pasa venezuela. y el primer paso para intentar ⸺intentar, digo bien, intentar⸺ salir del punto muerto político en el que se encuentra venezuela era promover el marco para unas elecciones legislativas creíbles, en el caso de que tal cosa fuera posible. pero créanme, no me he lanzado al ruedo como un espontáneo, armado con mi simple muletilla. empecé a hacerlo porque así me lo pidió el g4, dirigido por el presidente guaidó, para que trasladase al régimen las condiciones mínimas que la oposición consideraba necesarias para poder participar en un proceso electoral creíble. así lo hice y, durante todo el mes de agosto, durante todo el verano, he mantenido contactos por videoconferencia, telefónicos, tanto con el g4 como con otros líderes de la oposición, como, por supuesto, con el gobierno del señor maduro, y de todo ello he hecho declaraciones públicas, tanto en foros formales como en la reunión ministerial del grupo internacional de contacto, que tuvo lugar a la vuelta del verano el 17 de septiembre, y en el consejo de asuntos exteriores del 21 de septiembre. durante el mes de agosto emití comunicados explicando que no se daban las condiciones para que se pudieran considerar como libres y participativas las elecciones convocadas para el 6 de diciembre, pero, al mismo tiempo, insistí tanto al gobierno como a la oposición en que debían intentar encontrar una aproximación de sus posiciones para hacer posibles unas elecciones en las que la unión europea pudiese participar como observador. toda esta información es pública y lo ha sido siempre. a la vuelta del verano, uno de los líderes de la oposición, el señor capriles, manifestó su intención de participar en las elecciones si se daban las condiciones para ello, al mismo tiempo que otros, empezando por el propio presidente guaidó, ya consideraban imposible que eso pudiera ocurrir, pero no estaban en contra de que se intentase prolongar el plazo electoral para poder seguir negociando y para poder seguir considerando la posibilidad de una observación electoral por nuestra parte, cosa que solamente podía ocurrir, como ustedes saben muy bien, si previamente se daban las condiciones necesarias para ello. en la reunión del grupo de contacto y en el consejo de asuntos exteriores tuve el mayor apoyo para continuar los contactos con el gobierno para ver si era posible acordar una prolongación del plazo electoral, como condición imprescindible para cualquier otra cosa, porque, como ustedes saben, una misión de observación electoral pasa primero por enviar una misión de exploración electoral, que vuelve con un informe sobre si se dan o no las condiciones necesarias para poder enviar una misión de observación. la decisión de mandar la misión de observación va precedida por una misión de exploración que analiza la situación sobre el terreno, y eso lleva un mínimo de cinco o seis meses y, por lo tanto, cualquier intento era incompatible con la fecha del día 6 de diciembre. había pues que explorar la posibilidad, con lo que todo el mundo estuvo de acuerdo, de que esas elecciones se pospusieran. y, para acelerar los contactos, que ⸺insisto⸺ se han venido desarrollando por teléfono y videoconferencia durante tres meses, decidí enviar a dos funcionarios de nuestro servicio de acción exterior para que sobre el terreno contactaran con todos los actores políticos y vieran cuál era el estado de la situación. eso ha creado una cierta extrañeza en algunas de sus señorías, como si fuera algo novedoso. pero esto es una práctica diplomática totalmente habitual. durante el pasado año hubo tres misiones del grupo internacional de contacto con diversos formatos, todas ellas dirigidas por un alto funcionario de la unión europea y con el mismo objetivo que esta última. el gobierno noruego, con el que hemos colaborado, también ha enviado varias misiones para intentar desbloquear el estancamiento político, la última también durante el verano pasado. esta misión, antes de salir, informó por escrito a los estados miembros de la unión europea, de manera que eso de llamarla clandestina..., vamos, que yo sepa las actividades clandestinas no se comunican por escrito a todos los estados miembros antes de que tengan lugar. y en venezuela estos dos altos funcionarios se reunieron con toda una amplia gama de representantes de sectores. hablaron y escucharon a más de setenta personas. para ser secreta, no ha habido ningún problema en difundir su actividad todo lo que ha sido necesario. por supuesto, se reunieron con el presidente de la asamblea nacional, el señor guaidó, presidente encargado del país, que apoyó los esfuerzos para contribuir a lograr, a intentar lograr, un aplazamiento electoral, siendo muy escéptico al respecto. se reunieron con todas las fuerzas de la oposición, empezando por el g4. los representantes de este grupo insistieron en las condiciones necesarias para unas elecciones democráticas y transparentes, que me adelantaron y que yo mismo transmití al gobierno durante mis contactos en julio y agosto. y además mantuvieron conversaciones con el antiguo jefe de gabinete del señor guaidó, el señor roberto marrero, recientemente liberado de prisión y que lamentablemente no ha sido autorizado a venir a españa, como era su deseo. también se reunieron con don henrique capriles y dos de sus colegas. instaron a la unión europea a mantener abiertos todos los canales de comunicación y aprovechar esta oportunidad para evitar, intentar evitar, que venezuela vaya todavía más hacia un caos político y social que la asola. tuvieron la ocasión de entrevistarse con dos representantes del régimen de maduro, el ministro rodríguez y el gobernador del estado de miranda, héctor rodríguez, en respuesta a la invitación extendida por el régimen a la unión europea para observar las elecciones de diciembre. sí, tuvimos una petición concreta; es la primera vez que se pide a la unión europea que observe las elecciones. primero, pidieron una misión de acompañamiento electoral. les explicamos que tal cosa no existía, que la unión europea tiene unos procedimientos reglados, establecidos, que no acompaña, que observa. y eso, como les he dicho, pasa por un proceso muy pautado de, primero, una exploración y, después, en su caso, la observación. les explicamos que si querían estudiar las posibilidades de una misión de observación electoral había que pasar por este proceso y que eso, inevitablemente, conllevaba un atraso, porque, de lo contrario, no teníamos nada de lo que hablar. los funcionarios allí desplazados no estaban para negociar, sino simplemente para transmitir este importante mensaje a todos los sectores políticos y recibir su respuesta. también se mantuvieron contactos con representantes de la llamada mesa de diálogo nacional y con henri falcón. fue el único grupo en contra del aplazamiento de las elecciones. mantuvieron reuniones con la conferencia episcopal venezolana, que desempeña un papel clave en la sociedad, y que ya saben que ha pedido que la oposición participe en el proceso electoral y en la provisión de asistencia al pueblo venezolano ante la actual crisis humanitaria. los representantes de la conferencia episcopal, tal como habían declarado mediante carta publicada hacía algunas semanas, alertaron de que, si se dejaba pasar la oportunidad de presentarse a estas elecciones, se dejaría el espacio político vacante y el control absoluto de todas las instituciones al régimen de maduro. se reunieron con interlocutores de la sociedad civil, del mundo académico y del mundo empresarial. y creo que en caracas hubo un amplio apoyo a la labor de esa misión y a los esfuerzos de la unión europea para ayudar a lograr el espacio necesario para el diálogo, que sigue siendo nuestro objetivo. porque la unión europea es considerada por todos los interlocutores, o por la mayoría de ellos, como el único actor que puede hablar con todas las facciones y que puede hacerlo con credibilidad. y eso es lo que pretendemos los que defendemos una unión con una dimensión geopolítica. el otro mensaje claro que recibimos es que la gran mayoría de la oposición apoyaría un aplazamiento de las elecciones para dejar tiempo para mejorar las condiciones en que estas pudiesen celebrarse, lo cual quizá nos hubiera permitido enviar una misión de observación electoral. pero la opinión predominante es que, aunque claramente la decisión de aplazar las elecciones por sí sola no es una solución, sería una manera de mantener la puerta abierta a la negociación política. sin embargo, como ustedes saben, el gobierno, después de esa misión, ha contestado de una manera clara y rotunda, diciendo que de ninguna manera van a posponer las elecciones porque la constitución de venezuela se lo impide, ya que hay un mandato muy claro de que se deben hacer en una fecha determinada, antes de que acabe este año, lo cual, obviamente, cierra cualquier posibilidad a que el diálogo continúe en la perspectiva que antes les he explicado. creemos que la única manera de salir del impasse en el que se encuentra venezuela será a través del diálogo y la negociación política entre las fuerzas venezolanas. no habrá un único acontecimiento catártico que haga desaparecer las múltiples crisis que azotan al país. y nuestro papel, nuestra voluntad, es ayudar a encontrar una vía que responda a las necesidades y a las propias demandas del pueblo venezolano. y, después de lo que ha ocurrido y he escuchado a unos y a otros, y, en particular, después de haber recibido, no como respuesta a nuestras cartas, que respondían a la suyas, sino como declaraciones públicas, el mensaje de que las elecciones no se van a posponer, la unión europea, evidentemente, no podrá ni siquiera plantearse, ni siquiera plantearse, el envío de la misión de observación electoral. eso requeriría no solo el respeto a los estándares democráticos, que —como ya he declarado en varias ocasiones— no se dan o no se daban y siguen sin darse, puesto que no ha sido posible modificarlos, sino también, como he explicado, un calendario realista. creo que el comunicado de prensa del régimen de maduro, que se niega a aplazar las elecciones argumentando que no puede hacerlo por mandato constitucional, solo sirve para empeorar la situación política en venezuela. seguiremos apoyando todos los esfuerzos en pro de una salida política, pacífica y democrática de la crisis que el pueblo venezolano sufre, para que pueda superarla como merece.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr borrell, we are concerned to learn that you, as vice president and high representative by the way, both positions cannot be dissociated, sent a semi-clandestine mission last september 23 to negotiate with the maduro dictatorship the postponement of the elections. seven days earlier, the devastating un report was published accusing the maduro regime of human rights violations and crimes against humanity, which you have hardly mentioned. six days earlier, you met with the contact group, which gives you the mandate to explore the delay of fraudulent elections in venezuela. three days earlier you met with the eu foreign ministers and explained this mandate to them, but at both meetings you avoided mentioning any mission. so i ask you, when did you organize the underground mission? perhaps when the regime conveys its concern about this devastating un report? did the regime ask you for a political gesture? the exchange was: you send them a diplomatic mission and the regime delays the elections and you guarantee them a scouting mission for those future elections? and all this without a single condition; it does not require a presidential election. without presidential elections, we're not out of the regime. it does not even demand the immediate release of all political prisoners, the return of those forced into exile or the cessation of repression. we are very concerned that you have not informed the ministers of the 27 member states, the commission or this parliament of the clandestine mission, but even more serious is that you have ignored the venezuelan democrats represented by president juan guaidó, who is recognized by this parliament and 25 member states. a string of lies and half-truths does not make a truth, but the confirmation that it hides deeply undemocratic contacts. do not offer us today a disguise, but tell us the whole truth. the mission has been the means, the instrument to whitewash the regime, weaken and divide those who oppose maduro, and the end result will be a new deception by maduro, which will prolong the suffering of the venezuelan people with more violence, more poverty and less freedom. the eu can never contribute to this in any way.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful and very useful in this respect. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. because it is the only way out and because it is the european position, and for that, of course, diplomacy and dialogue to find a way out with democratic conditions - which, as has been well explained today, are not possible - are the only way out. secondly, i would like to reflect with you on the fact that very often in this house we cross paths and lament our irrelevance in the conflicts of our neighbourhood in order to find a way out - we say this very often. it turns out that we have a conflict like that in venezuela, a very serious situation like that in venezuela, where we are given the capacity for dialogue to play a constructive role, and there, where we can act and when we act, we encounter false, prefabricated polemics. that's the reality. thirdly, this parliament cares very much about venezuela. we have had six debates in this parliament, 13 resolutions in five years, and there has been nothing we have debated so much about. that shows that you care. but not only that: i want to say that many times it is used spuriously, as a political battering ram, thinking more about national politics, spanish - you just need to see the list of speakers - and not thinking about the prestige of this house, or, obviously, about venezuelans and their pain.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr borrell, we asked you to appear before this house to give us an explanation, we were hoping for an apology. but, besides, he hasn't told the truth. and that's the key. you know why? because you did not mandate or ask the opposition to intercede with the regime to call elections or postpone them; it was at your request, not guaidó or the g4, you proposed it. and if you start making an argument missing the truth, we have a problem, because everything else falls. everything else falls: it was you who proposed, after holding talks with the regime, that the opposition give you minimum conditions to participate in fraudulent elections, because the government of mr maduro does not have the capacity to call them, because remember that it is an illegitimate government. the opposition - as you systematically call it, in opposition to that government - is the one this house recognizes as the legitimate government, and the national assembly as the only democratic body in venezuela. then, after receiving the umpteenth no from the regime in august, you propose a mission in september without knowledge, until they are flying, of the opposition so you don't know what to offer the regime again. yes: postponing a fraudulent election without having the minimum conditions to be able to hold it. what's in it for you? to send a very bad message to the whole of venezuela: that it is intended to reach an agreement with the one who has no legitimacy to call elections. finally, mr borrell, as you know, the term of office of the assembly expires on 5 january. that's what the maduro government is hoping for because it will have its hands free. the question then is: since the elections of 6 december will not be democratic and their results will not be recognized, will you support the constitutional continuity of the mandate of the current assembly until genuine free and democratic elections can be held in venezuela? that must be the strategy of the european union: to guarantee the assembly as the only democratic body in force until genuine free and democratic elections can be held in venezuela.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i have the impression that once again we are discussing venezuela with more thought for the strategies of the opposition to the spanish government than for a serious debate on what the european union should do in this case. and, look, i hear you, really, and my problem is i don't know what you're proposing. in january it will be almost two years since the operation to identify mr guaidó - which, by the way, i remind you that it has not been recognized by the european union - and where has that led you? what do you propose? the only solution, i tell you, is what the high representative is trying to do, which is to bring the opposition and the government together to hold free elections which are recognised by both sides. it's the only way. by the way, with a mission which is a mechanism - as the usual high representative for european diplomacy has very well explained - and we need more missions like this to be developed. and one last thing - let me say this to the spanish delegations of the partido popular and renew: i think it is a rather strange way of defending democracy in the world to sign letters to our institutions together with the spanish far right; a bad way of defending democracy in the world is to take initiatives here with those who attack democracy within our borders.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the only ones attacking democracy here, because they are defending a dictatorship, a narco-communist dictatorship, murderous and with crimes against humanity, as the unsuspecting bachelet has just mentioned at the united nations, are you, the parties in government in spain. and that's a disgrace, and that's also the source of suspicion. it is the origin of the suspicion that exists and that alarms venezuela, and that alarms all the democrats who want to change venezuela and want the criminal regime of maduro to fall. because the criminal regime of maduro cannot be perpetuated. we can't let it perpetuate with an election that's going to be a farce, because there can't be a proper election with maduro in power. and yet, here it has been organized, by the government of spain and, unfortunately, many suspect that with the help of mr borrell, a farce to seek elections that perpetuate maduro, because with maduro in power there can be no free elections in venezuela. and whoever wants to do that is cheating europe, is cheating venezuelans and is cheating the world.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr borrell, here we are again talking about venezuela, as in almost every plenary session, although you and i know that this debate is not about venezuela at all, but about the distorted view of democracy held by the spanish right and extreme right, and about the role that they want the european union to play in foreign relations. they are organising this debate not because the european union has sent a mission to continue the dialogue with venezuela, but because they do not recognise democracy, rights, diplomacy, or dialogue. and what is the alternative that they present to us? the one of the member who preceded me in the debate who called for military intervention against the spanish government because he does not recognise the results of the elections in spain? is that the alternative you're offering? they only propose violence as a method. given that many of those who have promoted this debate have declared the spanish government illegitimate, what can be the next step? that mr casado is here to be recognised as president-in-office of spain because he met with a number of european union ambassadors last week? mr borrell, be careful about feeding the beast, go ahead with the dialogue, even if it will cost you criticism and some absurd debate in this parliament. note that here the most anti-democratic positions are gaining ground every day. i tell you one thing: there will be elections, not that there will possibly be elections, there will be elections on december 6 in venezuela, democratic and clean elections, as for more than twenty years. and there is no confessional reason... (the president withdraws the speaker)
your time is up. let us continue the debate. you're way past your time.
mr president, i have been accused of nothing less than promoting a coup d'état in spain. i don't think it is a ballad. that is strictly a lie. i have always called for the constitution to be strictly observed in our country by all institutions. i defend the constitution in spain. not that gentleman. that gentleman is an ally of terrorists, coup plotters and so on.
mr president, mr high representative, is it not strange, do you not think it is strange that only those who support the maduro regime are defending your clandestine or semi-clandestine visit here? that says all about the purpose of this visit and by the way i am addressing the greens, mr urtasun, this is not a spanish issue and look at the fact that in the epp i have a dutch, an italian, a spanish, a portuguese speaker, it is a human rights issue, it is a democracy issue. you gentlemen who are always talking about human rights and democracy, will you accept a visit from the high representative who will legitimize a regime that has just been condemned as a regime that has crimes against humanity? and so i say to mrs leitão marques how is it possible to come here and say that this debate is not relevant after the un human rights council says that the regime is committing crimes against humanity? how is that possible? for god's sake, if you think of children and refugees you have to think of those who are the victims of crimes against humanity and this debate is totally relevant whether the european union is legitimising, or whitewashing, or at least giving some breathing space to a regime that commits crimes against humanity. mr president, i shall now reply in the language of cervantes, with a spanish saying. after hearing you i'll say: i don't believe in witches, but that there are, there are.
mr president, the debate on the substance of the venezuelan issue would be interesting, the problem is that what this debate brings here is the sending of the mission and that is a storm in a teacup. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. this is yet another time that the spanish right has dragged the european right into a debate that should take place in the spanish courts. and the problem is not that mr borrell has departed one centimetre from the european position. the problem is that you are slipping into the american position, as some of them have done from that part (inaudible words). i will just say one very simple thing: if mr borrell's name were dombrovskis, we would not be here today talking about this.
mr president, to contribute, to help, to promote a peaceful, dialogue-based and, consequently, durable and viable solution to the humanitarian, social and political drama in venezuela requires that we focus, here and there, on what unites us. what unites us is that every observation, every scrutiny, shows that in venezuela today, there is no democracy and no conditions for free elections. our duty, when we talk about venezuela, is to remember that millions of people in that country deserve our focus on helping them regain their freedom. that is why i am calling for consensus to be the currency and the first tool of those who are suffering and opposing the maduro regime on the ground. but i ask the same of all those whom the european union wishes to help. any debate that casts doubt on our basic agreement helps maduro. it allows you to suggest that you have much more support outside of venezuela than you actually have, which is very little. the vast majority of us know he's a dictator. it does nothing to help the cause of freedom in venezuela that this tragedy is used as a weapon in the political debate. let us concentrate on stressing that debate is impossible there and that the priority is to restore democracy.
mr president, to know the suffering of the venezuelan people you don’t even need to go there. please take some time to talk to one of the men who prepare your coffee in the bar right next to this hemicycle. he will tell you about his family back home and the shortages of food and medicines, even before the coronavirus struck. and now even more people are dying in the streets. so let’s be clear, mr high representative, there is no division. we are united in wanting to address this humanitarian crisis. but you can’t be blind to the fact that this suffering is caused by the maduro regime. a corrupt regime that relies on the smuggling of oil, drugs and gold. a regime that, according to the un human rights council, murders, tortures, commits sexual violence and random detention. a regime that you did a huge favour by dispatching this premature diplomatic mission, and giving it a certain legitimacy. it’s like talking to lukashenko behind the opposition’s back. this is not – and i say this as a dutch representative – this is not an internal spanish debate. this is about the values and the credibility of the european union. the maduro regime has already made clear, it does not want to fulfil your conditions. it does not want to postpone the elections. can you basically answer one simple question to this house? do you think all of it was still worth it? (applause)
mr president, i find that this parliament is often the parliament of the duty to be, and not of the power to do, but of the duty to do. secondly, we all agree, except for the residual paleocommunism, that the de facto government of maduro is a brutal, criminal and absolutely condemnable government, but it is a reality. and we also have full legality, which is that of president guaidó, in a situation where the assembly ends very soon. and there is another brutal reality, which is the people of venezuela, turned into a subject of absolute deprivation, but which some use to make the revolution to the last venezuelan, that's right, from the comfortable europe. mr borrell, in support of your efforts and the mission you have sent me i note the following. first, that all the processes that have been carried out with the venezuelan government, from mr zapatero to the vatican, and all the others, have served no other purpose than to prolong the suffering and the maintenance of the maduro regime. that maduro's latest crackdown, which has given his legitimate efforts and which i support and understand, and which i do not understand how they are condemned, has meant that he remains in the same very difficult situation. any negotiation process, i see it as unfeasible. my question and my position is that the only possibility is to increase the pressure and, of course, if possible, to encourage dialogue, which i frankly see as metaphysical.
mr president, mr high representative, you recently said - and i quote - 'the humanitarian situation in venezuela is desperate. it is the most serious humanitarian crisis that a country is experiencing and the international community does not pay much attention to it because they only see the political aspect of the issue. go on with the appointment. however, despite knowing the conclusions of the independent un mission, which accuse the maduro regime of crimes against humanity, you organized a mission to negotiate with these human rights violators the postponement of fraudulent elections. and i said "regime" and not "government", because this house and 25 member countries of the european union only recognize as a legitimate government the national assembly, presided over by juan guaidó. as high representative, one of his responsibilities is to ensure the consistency of the european union's external action. would you send a mission to belarus to negotiate with that regime the future elections organized by lukashenko himself? are there guarantees that will allow for transparent, democratic and credible elections in venezuela? the ultimate goal of the maduro dictatorship is to stay in power at all costs. to deal with that regime in secret is naive. the electoral observation, issued by our institution, cannot support a fraud called for december or for six months afterwards. to put the election of the legislative branch before the change of the executive branch is simply absurd. i ask you: can venezuela - democratic venezuela - count on the support of the european union?
(introduction of the debate) ... respect for the members of this house. they cannot be accused of trying to do their job of controlling the vice-president and the high representative and they cannot be called sorry. it's a matter of basic respect. it is a matter of respect for this institution and its work of political control. to the high representative and vice-president: you have an obligation to come and explain. it's not a discretionary thing.
madam president, thank you to the high representative, josep borrell, for his presence here today, for his speech. i think that the vast majority of the house agrees with the position he has expressed: to try to make every effort to keep the nuclear agreement alive, which is of great importance, and at the same time to demand respect for human rights in iran from the regime. we cannot forget the long list of aggressions by the iranian regime, from the point of view of regional destabilisation, but also the arrest and execution of opponents - we have mentioned afkari, the situation of our sakharov laureate, nasrin sotoudeh, is very worrying - but also the illegal kidnapping of dual nationals, the willingness to buy arms as soon as the embargo is over, the mistaken shooting down of a civilian aircraft, the repression of the protests last november. the question is: do we have tools to put pressure on the regime beyond declarative ones?
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the tale of wirecard is a tale of economic nationalism. it’s a case of economic nationalism because, when the financial times discovers this scandal, the reaction of the regulators is first to investigate the journalists; second, forbid shorting, forbid trading against the stock, something that has never been done for individual stock in germany; third, continue allowing staff to trade, basically closing your eyes and defending the suspect illicit activity. the problem with economic nationalism is that the supervisor doesn’t have the incentive to act against the companies of their own country. they do it out of national pride. they do it out of economic interest. these are the national champions. wirecard was the leading fintech. there have been many instances before of such economic nationalism. very recently, we had the danske bank scandal where the supervisors in denmark and in estonia of this danish subsidiary see hundreds of billions of euro money laundering and do nothing. we had it during the banking crisis. during the banking crisis, we systematically saw regulators in their home country pretending that the banks were much better than they were. the truth of the matter is that the banks were not good, the supervisors pretended that they were good. what’s the cure against economic nationalism? we know it. we’ve done it in banking. we know the national banking authorities don’t have the incentive to look carefully at their own banks. that’s why we have a single banking supervisor. mr roth, when you say that the solution is not european supervision, i think that this is denying the reality of what we see. the reality of what we see is that, as long as we have national regulators overseeing their national champions, they are going to have the incentive to turn a blind eye. we need common supervision at a european level and to stop with this coordination.
the european commission has set itself the objective of making the project of the capital markets union a reality in 2015 with its first action plan. five years later, he has just presented us with a new action plan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the great unfinished business of the european integration process, but now, with the severe social and economic crisis resulting from covid-19, it becomes an even greater need for european citizens. why is the union of capital markets within the union important? it is important because it allows small and medium-sized enterprises to have a greater choice of access to capital markets and not have to rely so much on debt. it's also important because it allows small savers, which are nothing but small families, household economies, to have greater investment options. it is important that there should be a capital markets union so that there are no obstacles, so that there are no obstacles, so that the taxation on these capital movements is reduced, but above all it is important that europe becomes a more competitive market, is able to attract more capital within these markets, is able not only to allow european companies to find financing options within the market, but also to allow those who are looking for financing in the global world, in other markets, to see us as a competitive market, an attractive market. and it's even more important in light of brexit. in all these circumstances we have worked on a report which, in seven blocks, gives suggestions to the commission as to the most important, most urgent tasks for making this capital markets union a reality. we have worked, and i want to take this opportunity to thank all the alternative rapporteurs and all the teams who have worked on this time-tested report, for their work, so that we can at least get it approved in the econ committee before the commission publishes its action plan. and we did it. today we can make an assessment of that action plan, which was not in the original report, and in that assessment, my personal assessment is that there is still a lot to be done and we cannot waste any more time. the commission is based on the recommendations of the high level forum and is able to identify the steps to be taken, but it does not set objectives, it does not set deadlines, it is not even able to give solutions to the most complicated issues, to the issues where there is a lack of consensus. the capital markets union is a very necessary and very important tool in the face of the great economic crisis and economic recession which the citizens of europe are going to suffer. i hope that the commission will be able to work with the member states and also with the main players in the financial markets to put this reality into motion. we need to be able to have a europe where smes can find financing on the capital markets, where small savers have more and more investment options and in a safer way. we need a europe that attracts foreign capital and attracts foreign companies to seek capital in our markets. and we need a europe where we work on giving financial education to our citizens, a europe that allows citizens to have the tools to have the capacity to make the right decisions in relation to their investments. so this is a very important project. we welcome the commission's proposal, but we ask for concrete deadlines, concrete measures and for this to be a reality as soon as possible. let us not forget that in europe there is free movement of capital. how can this freedom be a reality if there is no single capital market?
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you very much, vice-president, for being here with us today, and thank you very much to all of you for your contributions to the debate we have had. indeed, as i said in my opening remarks, after this terrible pandemic that we are still suffering, there is a terrible social and economic crisis, and there is no better social policy than job creation. the job creators are the future entrepreneurs, those small start-ups seeking financing to launch a business idea, or the small and mediumsized enterprises, which, as has also been said, are the main job creators within the union. so we need both those who are looking for funding to start a business, and those who are looking for funding to be able to run their business, to have better and greater access to finance. and the capital markets union, the ability to access capital markets throughout the union in an accessible, simplified, barrier-free, tax-free way and in a way that allows these companies to access those funds, will allow for a form of financing that, at this time when we are going into a terrible economic crisis, certainly has to be a reality. but for those funds to exist, we need money to enter the markets, and for that, small savers are key. small savers have to find these capital markets attractive and therefore it has to be done in a safe and attractive way for them, so that they have a more varied investment offer. but nothing in the report i have had the honour of presenting, and nothing in the action plan the commission has presented to us, which is certainly a good action plan, makes sense unless the most complicated issues, namely insolvency, taxation and supervision, are brought to the table, and unless a plan with specific dates, specific objectives and working together with the member states and the rest of the financial sector is put on the table. i therefore ask the commission for more ambition in order to make the capital markets union a reality and i ask you to support the report to be voted on this afternoon by voting in favour of it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fincen files have a surprisingly positive side effect, because finally everyone knows what the american fincen is. we need an authority like fincen in the united states. well, maybe they didn't take proper care of their data, but that has had a positive effect on the global debate on money laundering and on our debate here in europe. fincen is an american intelligence agency that investigates money laundering in the united states and around the world. the reason why some of the dirtiest banks in europe ablv in latvia or the situation in cyprus have come under pressure is not because the european commission or european and national authorities have stirred things up there, but because fincen has repeatedly put its finger in the wound with rigid investigations and has also threatened america with sanctions, as in the case of latvia and cyprus. the commission has largely stood by while all this has happened. the american fincen is analyzing suspicious reports for all of america. there are not 51 states, fiu, and 51 money laundering supervisors, but there is a common actor. we visited it together with an inter-parliamentary delegation. we expect such an authority in your proposal, commissioner. an authority that can actually intervene, an authority that can analyse together. that's exactly what's not in your plan of action. it is true that there is a joint money laundering control but there is no joint fiu, you are simply trying to help the national authorities to cooperate better. but for the large crossborder cases, following the principle of subsidiarity, we need a joint financial intelligence unit so that we can really investigate large money laundering cases like america. i have one more question to ask you: i think it is good that you have finally sent questionnaires to some eu member states about the poor implementation of the fight against money laundering, not about the transfer. i would like to ask you, mr president, which member states were involved. and secondly, when will you finally open infringement proceedings against the member states which have been notoriously breaking european money laundering laws since 2007? that's the question you have to answer.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the massive leak of documents from the us agency fincen has revealed the criminal activities of high-ranking officials of the maduro government, who have amassed real fortunes by plundering the resources of their country and with drug trafficking; funds that, as has happened in some countries, such as spain, have ended up financing the activities of communist and mafia political parties, whose exclusive objective is to destroy social order, despite the fact that mr. borrell came to tell us yesterday that maduro was snow white. the involvement of european banks in money laundering operations resulting from these illicit activities is also of great concern. we cannot, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, allow drug dictatorships, terrorists and all kinds of criminals to run amok under our noses, whether by using financial engineering with european banks or by transferring their funds to tax havens such as gibraltar, the infamous colony from which money from illicit activities has been laundered for years. get down to earth: out there, there are millions of europeans out of work, there are thousands of honest businessmen and families who are suffering, and it is absolutely obscene that instead of fighting in the open against money laundering, drug trafficking and terrorism, we are allocating thousands of funds and demanding tax increases and the creation of new european taxes to finance the climate party of the big globalist multinationals. what europeans expect of us is something else.
madam president, again one more scandal, again i have to hear my colleagues on both sides of the aisle complaining, and again we see that nothing happens in the fight against money laundering. i think that the key to the answer is that europe needs to be more confident in this fight. we have shown that we can be regulatory leaders. we have put the gdpr standard, and some people would have been afraid that, with this standard, facebook or some others would not operate in europe. the fact of the matter is that, whatever the threats, they cannot afford not to operate in europe. this is similar. if we say to world companies, to companies based abroad, you can’t operate here unless we know who is your owner, if we rule out beneficial ownership, it is not going to be the case that people are going to renounce a 400 million market. they are going to want to be here, they are going to want to serve european citizens. so if we are confident and we set out the regulatory standards for transparency, for disclosure, for this beneficial ownership, it is going to be the case that companies will have to comply. what are the main things we need to change in the way this fight is going? i think we need three things. we need transparency, as i was saying, particularly no opaque companies – we need to know who is behind every account. we need a european financial intelligence unit – we need to know what is going on, and that requires police work. and we need a single supervisory authority that is able to centralise and doesn’t succumb to the economic nationalism that we are always seeing, with each authority protecting their own banks and their own transactions, and each authority happy to receive money from abroad. so this is the moment to show that europe is confident. i have heard all my colleagues speak and i have taken close note. i think that we all see things in a very similar way. we need to really change the way we are doing things. we need a confident europe that leads in this fight.
in writing. the scandal of the fincen files revealed by an investigation by the international consortium of investigative journalists has once again highlighted the many gaps in european legislation and supervision in the fight against money laundering. the s&d group has long been at the forefront of pushing for a european framework to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism. the fincen revelations are here to vindicate our claims. we are calling now, more than ever, for existing legislation to go beyond the existing one, which is clearly insufficient to prevent and combat criminal activity which is increasingly complex and cross-border. we therefore support the move to eu legislation that sets standards beyond the current minimums to ensure a more prescriptive set of rules, that is effectively enforced by member states and that prevents and penalizes bad behaviour by financial institutions.
mr president, commissioner, if the moral high ground of a society is measured by the way we treat our elders, we have to admit that we have not lived up to it. we haven't lived up to what our elders expect, need, or owe them. we have seen how they have died alone, helpless, abandoned, helpless, anguished, afraid. this health crisis has confronted our societies in the mirror of reality, and we have seen the best and the worst of our societies. we've seen our strengths, but we've also seen our miseries. and it's time to address a problem that we have and that affects all of us, because they will be us, and we can never again let our elders live in anguish and fear of dying alone, of not being considered first-class citizens. and i propose, commissioner, that we all come together here, members and the commission, to promote a charter of rights for the elderly, which sends a clear message, sends a message to our elderly that we will never leave them alone again, that they are our priority, that we will always take care of them with the dignity and love they deserve, always and until the end.
mr. president, we know that covid has killed mostly in long-term care facilities, especially in nursing homes, although the information we have is partial and fragmented, because some administrations do not offer data or make-up, lest they lose attractiveness for their investors we suppose. this is the case in the community of madrid, spain, which has the dubious honour of leading the second wave of contagion in europe. as far as we know, madrid has accumulated 9 634 deaths since march, of which 62.67% have died in nursing homes. the management of residential homes is the exclusive responsibility of the autonomous communities and in madrid there has been a veritable gerontocide: more than 6 000 parents, grandparents, grandmothers, people who have had neither family support nor a goodbye. there's a duel pending that we're going to have to do someday, but we don't want to just live our duel. we want to know, what went wrong, what happened to these people and why their carers, mostly women with precarious jobs, were left completely unprotected, without protective equipment or clear protocols. well, yeah, in madrid there was a protocol. in march and april, while the seniors from the residences were turned away from the public hospitals, their colleagues with private insurance were treated in private centers. you heard right, the ministry of health developed protocols that excluded seniors from end-of-life care. the impact of the pandemic has been greater in madrid because it dragged a long process of privatizations and dismantling of the public in health matters. and, as this privatization logic continues, madrid continues to be in the eye of the hurricane.
madam president, i would like to thank you. dawit isaak, as many colleagues in this house have pointed out, has been in prison for 19 years. for 19 years, he's been deprived of the right to be a father, for 19 years, the world has been deprived of his voice. for 19 years, we have failed to save him, and in doing so, we have robbed journalists around the world of a courageous colleague. every day in prison is an unforgivable theft, from dawit, from his family and for the world that needs courageous journalists, now more than ever. i am glad that we in the european parliament are again calling for the immediate release of dawit isaak and the other eritrean prisoners of conscience and for immediate proof of their survival. seven of the 28 people who were imprisoned at the same time as dawit isaak have already died. we swedish social democrats will continue to fight for justice for dawit isaak, and i know that many in this house feel the same way. we have to get him released. it was a hope to hear his daughter tell him he was alive this summer. let's keep telling the story of dawit isaak and rescuing him.
madam president, i wanted to speak about eritrea because i think it is really the north korea of africa. take the case of dawit isaak, a journalist and dissident who has been held in eritrean prisons for 19 years. we don't know anything about these dungeons. a woman, named ciham ali, has been held there in secret since she was 15 years old. thousands of people have shared their fate and been imprisoned for expressing their political views. but nothing has changed since 1993 in eritrea: there is still no rule of law or constitution, there are arbitrary detentions, torture, continuous violations of rights... but i would like to draw your attention to the position of the european commission. i spoke in the committee on budgetary control and in the committee on development because i saw that the commission had given €80 million to restore roads. but you know that at the moment the commission is giving money without conditions. and we cannot accept that, we members of the european parliament who fight for human rights. and there is no question of continuing to subsidize a dictatorship.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the european union has been following the case of dawit isaak from the outset and remains concerned about his whereabouts and health. we have shared these concerns with the authorities in eritrea on numerous occasions. violations of human rights, including the arbitrary detention of political prisoners and non-respect for freedom of speech and the media, are of continued concern to us. we have addressed them and will continue to do so. we have raised these concerns bilaterally and at the appropriate international fora, such as the human rights council, urging the government of eritrea to take concrete steps to address and remedy them. but we can not only criticise. we have to engage proactively to promote positive change. this is not something that happens overnight. it requires continued energetic efforts. i believe that our robust engagement on the political and cooperation track has improved bilateral relations, increased the level of trust and allowed us to discuss sensitive issues with a view to improving respect for human rights. we do that in the interest of improving the living conditions of the people of eritrea and increasing our ability to promote reforms. results, however small, bring us closer to where we would like to be. the bilateral engagement on human rights between the government of eritrea and eamon gilmore, our special representative for human rights; eritrea’s engagement within the human rights council’s universal periodic review; and our support to help them implement some of the recommendations they have accepted are concrete cases in point. the european union looks forward to eritrea’s action plan on the recommendations and is making good progress with the government to start activities soon. i trust that, by engaging in dialogue and exploring ways to work together, we stand a better chance to make our voice heard and to positively influence the country’s human rights record, promote the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and advance the case of dawit isaak.
in writing. the dawit isaak case demonstrates the extreme precariousness of the situation of independent journalists in some countries and the limits of european diplomacy, which has been characterised in this case by sweden's (perhaps too) 'silent' offensive since the early 2000s. indeed, eritrea is still one of the most repressive regimes in the world. in 2015, reporters without borders ranked it last in its press freedom rankings, while religious groups remain under tight government supervision. this oppression is, moreover, permeating the whole of society through a national service which is frequently abused and which is almost like a new form of slavery. every year, it pushes countless citizens of this small african country into the arms of human traffickers and onto global migration routes. in this respect, if europeans and other major powers cannot answer for all the atrocities committed around the world, or even solve them, we should at least refrain from contributing to them, even indirectly, for example by promoting infrastructure projects that could give rise to flagrant violations of fundamental rights.
author. – madam president, the proposed law on foreign agents comes after weeks of increased repression against activists and human rights defenders in nicaragua. especially women activists face growing violence and intimidation, including sexual violence and threats on social media. this law, together with the proposed special law on cybercrime, could have a negative impact on the right to equal political and public participation and lead to unlawful criminalisation of civil society organisations, activists and human rights defenders. numerous ngos have expressed their concern. i hope that their voices will be heard and that the congress of nicaragua rejects these laws. repression of the opposition and silencing their voices is not the way forward. dialogue is. i call on the government of nicaragua and all parties concerned to engage in a meaningful and comprehensive national dialogue to come to an agreement of electoral reforms that would guarantee credible, inclusive and transparent elections next year.
madam president, the people of nicaragua have lived for too long in unacceptable circumstances. daniel ortega's government has given up on defending its people and is clinging to power at the expense of the majority. the european parliament calls on the nicaraguan government to abandon the authoritarian path of repression. if you continue to restrict the rights of your citizens, there will be consequences, such as new sanctions. withdraw laws that violate human rights, such as that of foreign agents, cease hostilities against those who say what they think, release those detained for expressing their ideas and let those who have had to go into exile to fight for the nicaragua in which they believe return. they are returning to the democratic channel, returning to the national dialogue and undertaking the necessary reforms so that the next elections can be free and fair. from europe, we give a lot of encouragement to all those who resist day by day, to all those groups who are threatened, such as, for example, all the women who, in addition to political repression, also suffer gender-based violence and sexual abuse. we are united in our struggle for democracy, freedom and social justice. we are on your side, on the side of those who fight for a plural nicaragua, where everyone fits in regardless of their gender, their origins or their ideas. and only through dialogue can this nicaragua be built.
author. madam president, nicaragua is currently at a turning point: either the path of reforms and commitment to reach free and transparent elections in 2021, or the path followed by ortega, which leads us, without a doubt, to elections with electoral fraud. so let us not deceive ourselves. what do we think will happen in nicaragua if the democratic path is closed? have we not learned enough from what has happened in venezuela? with this resolution we send a clear and unambiguous message to the high representative and also to the council: there must be democratic change in nicaragua now. and, otherwise, if there is no such thing, there must be consequences. if ortega continues his attack on democracy and human rights, the european union must act quickly, forcefully and clearly. what is required by this resolution? two fundamental things are required: sanctions against ortega and murillo and their entire criminal gang, and also the activation of the democratic clause in the association agreement. in 2012, we committed all the democrats in the european parliament to suspend the association agreement if human rights were not respected, if democracy was not respected. how many dead, how many exiles must there be in nicaragua for us to continue to be ashamed and indignant? ladies and gentlemen, if ortega and murillo want to continue stealing what little remains of the nicaraguan people, let it be without our connivance. that is why today the european parliament is doing its duty, is doing its job, that is to say, today we are doing our job. now it is time for mr borrell and the council to comply as well.
author. madam president, today we are facing a clear attempt by the dictatorship to continue repressing fundamental rights and freedoms in nicaragua: the law on the regulation of foreign agents, promoted by the deputies of the sandinista front for national liberation alliance, which we are here to discuss today, together with the law against hate crimes and the special law on cybercrimes, are the clear strategy of this ortega regime to legally prevent the participation of the opposition in future elections and to remain in power by using a supposed rule of law. these three laws would not only distort the political system in nicaragua, but would endorse the persecution and harassment of political opposition and the censorship of digital media and allow the imposition of life imprisonment for political dissent. if passed, the foreign agents regulation law could be used as a sanctioning instrument against human rights organizations and individuals who receive international cooperation resources, including from the european union. initiatives like these bills demonstrate that there is no intention on the part of the authoritarian nicaraguan government to cease its violation of human rights. the european union has a duty to respond to these provocations. let us use the resources at our disposal by invoking the democratic clause of the association agreement between the european union and the countries of central america.
author. madam president, we have in nicaragua yet another case of a dictatorship that we are treating too well. and that dictatorship grows, precisely because of the treatment it has of favor, and it is crushing and creating situations in which it is actually caging more and more of its population; it is killing its population. continuously, since 2017, we have had an escalation of brutal repression. now we have some laws in view, which have been presented, to absolutely close the discussion: both the law on the regulation of foreign agents, which means that there will practically be no possible international cooperation, and the special law on cybercrime, which will not leave an opinion or a gap there. we are facing a dictatorship which we must treat as such, as we must treat that of cuba, which has such influence in nicaragua. please, the high representative has to send a clear signal here, here in venezuela and in nicaragua, in venezuela and in cuba.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, nicaragua is a country which has suffered for too long from a government which is hostile to freedom, democracy and human rights. and that is because nicaragua is suffering from a communist government, a sandinista, marxist, revolutionary government, belonging to that alliance badly known as '21st century socialism', a group of totalitarian governments that we must fight without shortcuts or concessions, if we really want to export to the world our model of liberal democracy, of respect for individual freedoms and human rights. we must not make the mistake, so often made in history, of wanting to satisfy, by surrendering, insatiable ideologies. i therefore support this resolution and the agreement reached on its content by firmly condemning this regime, which is an enemy of freedom. i cannot help but mention that it strikes me very strongly how easily we use the expression 'far right' in this house and how we are incapable of using the expression 'far left', which does not appear anywhere in the text. not a single reference in the text. as has already been said, this nicaraguan socialist-communist government has introduced two bills through the sandinista forces, which support it. two projects that are trying to silence the opposition. two projects that want to silence the opposition, which cannot fight and defend the rights of citizens. i therefore want to ask the european union to condemn these two laws firmly, to show its support for the nicaraguan opposition and to say 'long live freedom'.
i would like to stress, madam president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on the report on the ethical aspects of artificial intelligence, drawn up by mr garcía del blanco in the committee on legal affairs, the importance of this dossier for the dignity and rights of workers. the greater flexibility or efficiency that the use of these technologies may bring cannot be synonymous with more sophisticated forms of exploitation or supervision of workers. as a result, the law, our legislative framework, must advance a set of regulations that protect workers from monitoring and metric mechanisms that violate their privacy, their reputation, or their chances of promotion or staying in their jobs. we have to ensure that the data of the workers belongs to the workers, even after the employment relationship has ended. the development of this technology must be free from discriminatory bias and the reproduction of stereotypes of gender, race, class or sexual preference. this is just a first step and should be followed by specific legislation on labour issues.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to highlight the role played here today by the european parliament's plenary session. many months of work by different committees of the european parliament are reflected here today in an intense, technical and competent debate by different committees. i therefore think it is important that the commission listens to the european parliament and makes clear the proposals that we are bringing to the european commission through the various reports that the european parliament is presenting. so you will agree with me that the european union has changed a lot from 1985 to 2020. that is why i want to emphasize the directive on product liability, which deals with that year. but society has changed so much that this directive does not at any time mention mobile phones, computers or teleworking, which are fundamental elements in the european economy, in the way we relate to one another and in the way we work today in the 21st century. it is therefore very important for european socialists to highlight this 21st century update. it is true that around 50% of european product manufacturers are now using artificial intelligence in their product development processes; and it is also true that a large proportion of european citizens do not feel that artificial intelligence is entirely trustworthy in their day-to-day use. we have therefore, as legislators, the challenge of being able to work on a directive which gives confidence to the european institutions, but above all to our citizens. that safety must be safeguarded, no doubt, by the safety of many of our products. and, as has been said here too, it is essential that this burden of proof does not fall on the consumer. it is true that we need to empower our european consumers. we need european consumers to be more aware of everything that has to do with new technologies, but they cannot be held responsible for what should be the producers.
mr president, this is a historic moment, the first time that the plenary of the european parliament has been asked to speak on helsinki and on the best topic yet: digitalisation and artificial intelligence. the current coronavirus pandemic has meant a major digital shift across europe, and some of these changes will surely be permanent. at the same time, it has also highlighted the very large disparities between regions and people and demonstrated that we need to invest more in high-speed modern infrastructure and connectivity, in people's digital skills and that we also need to invest more in digital services and research and innovation in this area in order to be competitive in the future. this is also a message for the financial negotiations now under way. further investment is needed in modern high-speed connections, digital skills of people and research and product development in the sector. it is the way europe can remain competitive and successful in the future. but apart from investment and innovation, we must ensure that we have legislation to support new innovation and to encourage the introduction of new technologies and new applications. at the same time, we must ensure that good consumer protection and fundamental human rights are also realised in the digital world, and it is important for us to find the right balance in legislation now. we must not over-regulate digital services or artificial intelligence, but we must ensure that consumer and business confidence in digital services is maintained. this means that we must reform the regulation on platform liability and we must also create our own european ethical principles for artificial intelligence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote in parliament lays the foundations for modern digital standards by reforming the e-commerce directive which dates back to 2000, well before the power of the big platforms, when online commerce was much less widespread. at the same time, we will also have the first fruits of the work on artificial intelligence that we have started together with the european commission, by defining a general framework on the ethical aspects of civil liability and intellectual property, which are fundamental issues to ensure the confidence of citizens in this technology and to give legal certainty to companies that use it. with the adoption of these reports, we are establishing a genuine european model for the digital world, based on the centrality of people and technology, on our fundamental rights and freedoms, on democracy itself. a framework that ensures the protection of citizens and consumers, but also the promotion of innovation and excellence, in order to take full advantage of the great opportunities offered by new technologies and thus minimise the risks to our society. i am particularly pleased with the specific focus on counterfeiting in electronic commerce that i have worked on, by enshrining the principle 'what is illegal offline is illegal online' and by opening up the mandatory nature of some now voluntary provisions on this matter, we will be even better able to protect european consumers and our businesses from the proliferation of fake and dangerous products, a trend that has unfortunately increased in scale during the covid-19 pandemic. let us therefore continue this work for an inclusive europe at the forefront of the digital transformation.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. it's time to accelerate when it comes to digital technologies. the covid-19 pandemic has shown how important this area is for all of us in this difficult situation. we certainly need less bureaucracy and more digitization. so we should be looking at innovation in this new perspective, and there is absolutely no doubt about that. but with the rise of digitalisation and access to online services, we also need to pay close attention to protecting children from online abuse. and this is an absolute priority for me, because we know that this practice is unfortunately very widespread in the european union. and i would also like to point out that when designing solutions, we must keep in mind the balance between, on the one hand, the need for security and, on the other hand, protection against censorship on the internet, and also the appropriate safeguards in terms of freedom of expression and the right to information.
mr president, intellectual property protection is an increasingly important issue in the age of artificial intelligence. it is clear that the importance of mental work will continue to grow, and its protection will become increasingly important. until recently, the concept of intellectual property was more or less clear. someone made something, or created something, and if someone else copied it without permission, that was breaking the law. however, in the age of digital technologies, more and more uncertainties are entering this area. we have to answer questions that would have recently been classified more as science fiction. when artificial intelligence can create, who will actually own the results of that creation? who will be responsible for the autonomous decisions of the machines? what if the ai starts creating itself? it may seem premature, but the pace of development is enormous, and sooner or later we will face these dilemmas. and by then, we need to have clear rules and clear legal frameworks in place. the main principle that we have to remember is that technology always serves the human and society and not the other way around. no matter how complex a machine or program is, it is always the product of human thought and work. that's why there's always a human being at the end of the decision. just as humans can always decide whether or not to use ai, humans must have the final say in the decision-making process. only then can we ensure that ai serves us, improves our processes and enhances our services.
mr president, the debate we are having is based on the evidence that technologies have had and are having a dramatic impact on business models and, at the same time, on the position of consumers and users' rights. we cannot renounce what these technologies mean, nor submit to them as passive subjects. we therefore need a secure environment from the legal point of view, from the technological point of view and from the point of view of the protection that consumers expect. and so, first of all, there needs to be real harmonisation in national legislation, clear rules on liability and a clear statement of the principle that what is illegal offline is also illegal online. we must certainly involve the service companies so that they can cooperate and provide conditions of transparency and legality. i mean, it's true that technology creates challenges, but technology itself should also help to respond to them. we therefore need to rely on current and future technology as a tool to address the specific threats and risks of the online world. we understand that we should not prohibit, but should regulate according to the maturity of each of the technologies. and finally, let me say that we need to maintain sectoral legislation to deal with the specific challenges and threats that exist in the digital world. among them is the regulation of terrorist content after terrorism has again attacked an innocent victim of freedom in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to ask workers, businessmen, the elderly, young people and even the sick at this time of covid, what do they expect from europe, what do they expect from the commission, what do they expect from the european parliament, do they expect concrete action to save lives and to defend jobs? and that is precisely the direction our agriculture can take if it is not penalized by european measures. with european resources we can defend jobs in agriculture and the agricultural chain, with european actions we can defend agri-food products, agri-food value, our agriculture and defend people's lives. and instead europe after the table bugs -- some people thought it was a joke in the past, the table bugs in europe, the table bugs in italy -- now they're thinking about how to make synthetic meat more valuable. so instead of promoting the italian and european agri-food systems, we are thinking about how to deal with the synthetic meat lobby. it is madness, i understand that there is a billion euro business behind synthetic meat, but my invitation is to continue to hold the bar and call steak, sausage, scallop, hamburger what is a derivative of the meat chain, real animal meat and not as someone would like to deceive, with the complicity of europe, deceive consumers. i think that this is the fundamental issue and the direction we should be going in. do not mislead consumers, do not offend the european agri-food system and the italian agri-food system, do not go in the direction of nutri-score, do not go in the direction of using names that are related to meat to promote synthetic meat. no to measures that reward synthetic meat, laboratory meat, that reward the wasteful multinationals, but concrete, economic and direct measures that reward our agriculture.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, today, the industrialized parts of agriculture are the main part of the climate problem. and agriculture has such great potential to be part of the climate solution. with agroecological methods, with methods of organic farming, we can save co2 and bind it to our soils. even if the social democrats try to gloss over a bad outcome of the negotiations, it remains a missed opportunity to take a decisive stand against climate change, the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis. instead, we continue to see a reliance on the world market, which leads to farmer deaths and ruinous producer prices in the european union. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in cereals, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a very good one. so keep the millions going to the oligarchs, to the financial investors, to the big landowners and to the agricultural industry! this is a blow to farming and a dark day for climate and environmental protection.
mr president, in the last few weeks i have received many e-mails from environmental ngos asking for more support and ambition for the green architecture of the cap. my answer is and will always be the same: if agriculture is not a profitable and competitive activity, environmental protection will be a utopia. we have to be ambitious, but we also have to be very responsible. all of us in this house must be realistic and show that we have common sense. i cannot honestly support the direction of this new cap. i refuse to be complicit, because we are creating a bureaucratic monster, because i see no will to support young farmers with adequate funds and, above all, because implicitly giving up food production for the sake of the environment will leave our farmers and consumers completely unprotected against imports from third countries.
mr president, we often get into debates about acronyms in the european parliament, but we forget what is behind them. the cap is not just an acronym. the cap is supported by millions of farmers and herders throughout europe; it is supported by millions of citizens who are willing to give up their lives in the countryside to support their families and to build a life project. the cap is the result of the efforts of generations, the pride of parents in their achievements over many years and the hope that their children will be able to continue to earn a living in the countryside. that is why this week's vote is not just any vote. this week we are deciding on the future of those millions of farmers and their families and on the quality products at reasonable prices that they work with and that they produce. despite the budget cut the council gave to farmers last july, there are still those who want to impose more burdens and demands on them. the people's party is the party of the spanish countryside and that is why we will never abandon our farmers. we will not tolerate a radical change, as some have proposed, to a model which has been so successful as the cap so far. the common agricultural policy has been the cornerstone of the european construction for decades, and we in the people's party believe that it should remain so. otherwise, a europe without a strong cap will not only destroy the future of millions of farmers, it will simply be much less europe.
mr president, the cap directly affects the lives of millions of farmers in the european union, and indirectly we all benefit from the fruits of the field and its ecosystems. the fight today is the fight for territory and for life. the cap is a cohesion tool and now it must also reinforce the green transformation facing europe. we reject the idea that farmers are subsidized passive subjects. i'm not sure. farmers feed us, they keep rural areas alive, and they are a climate change containment dam. some political groups have come here to defend the old model with a green wrapper. but the cap of this time is fairer and more sustainable. that is why we are calling for the first hectares to be subsidised, because two thirds of farms in the european union have five hectares or less. that is why we want to have a ceiling on aid, because only 2% of the beneficiaries receive more than 60 000 euros. that is why we are advocating real and significant environmental spending for young people and women. that is why we want strong conditionality, not just green but labour, which guarantees the rights of farmers, livestock farmers, workers and temporary workers. we are committed to a united europe in which the way we farm, raise, produce, trade and consume is transformed. today begins the birth of much of who we will be.
in writing. the 2021 work programme is closely linked to the recovery plan for europe, the next generation eu recovery facility and a strengthened eu budget for 2021-2027. as socialists, we stress the need for the recovery plan and the mfp not to be paralysed because they are crucial to economic recovery. the european health union is also an urgent matter which must be properly implemented. we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable. we welcome the commission's commitment to present an action plan to ensure the full implementation of the european pillar of social rights, but we need to fight poverty and protect european workers vulnerable to the digital transformation. the european union needs tax fairness across europe and flexibility in tax rules for several years; measures such as the european unemployment reinsurance scheme must be really implemented. we will emerge from this crisis through solidarity: solidarity between people, regions and member states, with migrants who need safe and legal pathways. fighting for our values: for true gender equality and the rule of law.
in writing. the 2021 work programme is closely linked to the recovery plan for europe, the next generation eu recovery facility and a strengthened eu budget for 2021-2027. as socialists, we stress the need for the recovery plan and the mfp not to be paralysed because they are crucial to economic recovery. the european health union is also an urgent matter which must be properly implemented. we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable. we welcome the commission's commitment to present an action plan to ensure the full implementation of the european pillar of social rights, but we need to fight poverty and protect european workers vulnerable to the digital transformation. the european union needs tax fairness across europe and flexibility in tax rules for several years; measures such as the european unemployment reinsurance scheme must be really implemented. we will emerge from this crisis through solidarity: solidarity between people, regions and member states, with migrants who need safe and legal pathways. fighting for our values: for true gender equality and the rule of law.
in writing. the 2021 work programme is closely linked to the recovery plan for europe, the next generation eu recovery facility and a strengthened eu budget for 2021-2027. as socialists, we stress the need for the recovery plan and the mfp not to be paralysed because they are crucial to economic recovery. the european health union is also an urgent matter which must be properly implemented. we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable. we welcome the commission's commitment to present an action plan to ensure the full implementation of the european pillar of social rights, but we need to fight poverty and protect european workers vulnerable to the digital transformation. the european union needs tax fairness across europe and flexibility in tax rules for several years; measures such as the european unemployment reinsurance scheme must be really implemented. we will emerge from this crisis through solidarity: solidarity between people, regions and member states, with migrants who need safe and legal pathways. fighting for our values: for true gender equality and the rule of law.
in writing. the 2021 work programme is closely linked to the recovery plan for europe, the next generation eu recovery facility and a strengthened eu budget for 2021-2027. as socialists, we stress the need for the recovery plan and the mfp not to be paralysed because they are crucial to economic recovery. the european health union is also an urgent matter which must be properly implemented. we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable. we welcome the commission's commitment to present an action plan to ensure the full implementation of the european pillar of social rights, but we need to fight poverty and protect european workers vulnerable to the digital transformation. the european union needs tax fairness across europe and flexibility in tax rules for several years; measures such as the european unemployment reinsurance scheme must be really implemented. we will emerge from this crisis through solidarity: solidarity between people, regions and member states, with migrants who need safe and legal pathways. fighting for our values: for true gender equality and the rule of law.
in writing. the 2021 work programme is closely linked to the recovery plan for europe, the next generation eu recovery facility and a strengthened eu budget for 2021-2027. as socialists, we stress the need for the recovery plan and the mfp not to be paralysed because they are crucial to economic recovery. the european health union is also an urgent matter which must be properly implemented. we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable. we welcome the commission's commitment to present an action plan to ensure the full implementation of the european pillar of social rights, but we need to fight poverty and protect european workers vulnerable to the digital transformation. the european union needs tax fairness across europe and flexibility in tax rules for several years; measures such as the european unemployment reinsurance scheme must be really implemented. we will emerge from this crisis through solidarity: solidarity between people, regions and member states, with migrants who need safe and legal pathways. fighting for our values: for true gender equality and the rule of law.
in writing. the 2021 work programme is closely linked to the recovery plan for europe, the next generation eu recovery facility and a strengthened eu budget for 2021-2027. as socialists, we stress the need for the recovery plan and the mfp not to be paralysed because they are crucial to economic recovery. the european health union is also an urgent matter which must be properly implemented. we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable. we welcome the commission's commitment to present an action plan to ensure the full implementation of the european pillar of social rights, but we need to fight poverty and protect european workers vulnerable to the digital transformation. the european union needs tax fairness across europe and flexibility in tax rules for several years; measures such as the european unemployment reinsurance scheme must be really implemented. we will emerge from this crisis through solidarity: solidarity between people, regions and member states, with migrants who need safe and legal pathways. fighting for our values: for true gender equality and the rule of law.
in the name of the gue/ngl group. madam president, since august belarus has been experiencing a massive social mobilization against election results which many consider to be fraudulent. we have seen a spiral of arrests of protesters, calls for lukashenko's resignation and an increase in tensions at the borders of the european union. we will always defend the right of anyone, anywhere, to protest against abuses, always linked to the demand that each people is sovereign to determine its destiny without external interference. that is why we do not tolerate or subordinate human rights and democracy to geopolitical interests or invoke them selectively for one country and not for another. this week we are celebrating the triumph of the bolivian people, despite a coup d'état that lasted more than a year and multiple impediments. and we look with hope to the plebiscite in chile, which was achieved precisely by popular mobilizations. we need in belarus, as in other countries in conflict, more than ever, dialogue and diplomacy, to prevent further escalation, demanding an immediate stop to arrests, but also to interested interference.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, europe must act in the face of police violence in the states. many of these abuses are racially motivated, such as those perpetrated against the roma people. but they also happen during demonstrations of various kinds. in catalonia, for example, police brutality has been directed especially against the catalan republican movement, leaving physical and psychological wounds that are difficult to heal. in addition, there are reports of links between various european police forces and far-right groups. the police must not, under any circumstances, violate human rights. on the contrary, you must protect them. we therefore propose the creation of an independent system for monitoring police violence within the rule of law mechanism or the revision of the directive on the protection of victims. the union must recognise the need to monitor police conduct, ensure accountability and end police violence in order to protect the rights and freedoms of all citizens.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, on 31 december, in accordance with the will democratically expressed by the electorate more than four years ago, the united kingdom will finally be officially a third country, with or without an agreement. the position of brussels has always been, throughout these years of negotiations, to punish the british people for their choice by making the break as painful and as complex as possible for london. after trying to tie the uk to the common market with the backstop, the commission is still trying to keep the uk on a short leash by imposing on it, for example, the case law of the european court of human rights or by wanting to keep a watch on its state aid policy. but the truth is, your inflexibility never paid off. boris johnson had demonstrated the fragility of this so-called intransigence at the end of 2019, obtaining, just after his election, the renegotiation of the agreement that had been concluded with theresa may and which you claimed was immutable. as a french member of parliament elected in normandy, i am very concerned today about fisheries, which is a major issue for our countries and for my own in particular. germany has already said that it is in favour of concessions and you yourself, mr barnier, recently suggested that we should, and i quote, 'show some realism on access to british waters'. so it will either be weakness or no deal, no agreement. and i certainly do not welcome the prospect of failure, but contrary to what has been said for the last four years, the consequences of a no deal would probably be far worse for the european union than for the united kingdom. you have taken the problem in reverse, instead of negotiating a global agreement by imposing your ideological dogmas, the general agreement should have been conditional on the specific issue of fisheries, but you do not dare the balance of power because you fear above all a future trade war. the european union claimed to bring us prosperity, stability, strength and a place on the world stage after the united states, china and, more recently, turkey. the united kingdom is now showing that the european institutions, both in their functioning and in their political orientations, are organising the collective impotence of our nations and therefore of our continent.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, with regard to climate, those were very poor council conclusions indeed. or can i even call them conclusions, because the only thing that leaders could agree on was that they had actually talked about climate. we are in the midst of a rapidly progressing climate crisis and postponement of action is a mistake. this year again looks set to break any sort of records with regard to climate crisis, be it heat waves, droughts, intensity, extreme weather events, arctic shield loss, etc. so, let me be very clear. deciding to talk about climate later is failing to grasp the urgency of this task. we have to act now and we have to act decisively at all levels and also in all policy areas, and the compromise reached by the european parliament on reducing greenhouse gases by 60% by 2030 is a good step forward. some of you have said it’s an ambitious target, but it’s not so ambitious: it’s a more realistic target if we really want to save our planet. member states should sign up to it quickly – to the 60% goal – so we can finally start acting. the climate doesn’t wait and neither should we. and yes, the economic transformation needed for that is no walk in the park, especially for regions with a long-standing tradition of carbon-intensive economies. that’s why the parliament is insisting on having a proper-sized just transition fund, among others, as part of a new eu budget, because you need to put the money where your policy targets is. you need to put the money where you want to have the eu fit for the tasks ahead and that requires adequate funding. any government should know that. we need to have a climate spending target of 30% and a biodiversity target of 10% in order to be up to the tasks ahead. and eu funds also need to advance our union values. that’s why compliance with rule of law must be an essential criteria for allocating the funds and these are critical elements in the parliament’s position on the eu budget and recovery fund. it is just inadmissible that the council disregards such fundamental concerns. as for brexit, it’s very sad to see that so much time has passed without any agreement being reached on our future relations. we’re approaching the end of the time limit and i just want to remind us that of course the uk government could have asked for an extension and they decided not to, but it’s also clear that we cannot accept a deal that would endanger the single market, social rights or environmental standards. so further work is needed on that and we are still extremely sad that brexit was decided, but now we need to see that we also ensure the union’s togetherness. we are again holding this meeting under very exceptional circumstances. we’re in the midst of a big, big medical crisis. let us learn from the eu response in the spring, let us now be more coordinated, more cohesive and make sure that border restrictions are avoided. it’s an exceptional year in many different ways and the council needs to step up if it is ready to face these challenges. (applause)
the european council has concluded with one conclusion: britain, bend or break! if you know that prime minister johnson has written a great biography of winston churchill, then you can imagine what he's going to do. so we have to prepare for no deal. if we look at fisheries, because that's what i want to talk about, the two positions are very different. the united kingdom claims sovereignty over its own fishing waters. the eu wants to leave the current situation as it is. but there is a brexit. so the british can claim their fishing grounds. now i have a big point. the netherlands cannot throw its fishermen overboard because the european union is fishing behind the net. we don't know what's coming off the bus yet. i hope you have success with a deal. but if it's not, then there's another world, mr. barnier. i'm very glad that you understand dutch so well. if there is no agreement, i do not want to point an accusing finger. but then there is another situation and then the member states, the fishing countries, must have the right to negotiate bilaterally with britain. norway offers a good model. the norwegians agreed fishing quotas with britain last year. flanders and denmark, and the countries fishing there, can benefit from this. we have a model, because you know very well, mr barnier, that french fishermen can fish a lot in the atlantic, but we are in a bind. and that fuik is getting smaller and smaller. we cannot give up! the netherlands will never abandon its centuries-old tradition of fishing and sacrifice on the sacrificial block of brussels. this is a national matter which goes very deep in culture and i will defend our fishing community tooth and nail. bilateral negotiations should therefore be possible if you fail. because we've known the british for 400 years. we've had wars with them and everything and more. but we can still have our own beans with the british.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i shall make two points, mr michel, mainly to the council. firstly, stop 'flattering' erdogan, because you are sending the wrong message and that is why he is escalating his unilateral provocations, not only against greece and cyprus but also against the european union itself. what happened, mr michel and mr šefčovič, to the list of sanctions which mr borrell presented orally to the foreign ministers some two months ago? when will we finally see it written down at the summit, endorsed alongside the positive dialogue agenda you are proposing for turkey? why is the summit - and in particular the german presidency, with your permission - continually postponing and postponing the matter? you took it from june to september and now you're telling us to meet in december. you need to finally show more rigor towards erdogan and consistency in words and deeds. secondly, the severity of the second wave of the pandemic requires stronger measures to protect society, the economy and public health. the european parliament, therefore, in addition to the positive step of the recovery fund, by a large majority and with the agreement of five political groups - the european people's party, the liberals, the socialists, the greens and the left - calls for a more ambitious budget. i therefore ask you, the council, to listen to the statement made yesterday by the president of parliament, mr sassoli, and to stop bullying parliament and not accusing it with fake news that it does not want a deal. the council must also be moved, mr michel, if there is to be an agreement. parliament has moved on from its initial proposals, but in order to meet in the middle of the bridge and quickly reach positive decisions, such as those demanded by the citizens (see yesterday's eurobarometer), both the summit and the council should take some steps towards compromise instead of blaming the european parliament.
mr president, the dangerous developments in greek-turkish relations confirm in the communiqués of the european council the dead end of the policy of all the governments of greece to get involved in american-turkish projects and competitions. the european union, once a 'dead port', has now become a 'slow-moving ship' for its apologists. the strong economic and geopolitical interests that link the european union, germany, italy, spain and others to turkey are thus exposed. the european union, the united states and nato are not only unable to stop the aggression of the turkish bourgeoisie, but are actually discouraging it, which proves that they cannot guarantee peace. that is why the turkish provocations on the greek shelf, navtex, the maps for the jurisdiction of the rescue, the drilling in the cypriot eez, the opening of the beach in varusia; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the arms embargo, the revision of trade agreements, the sanctions and their terminology are all part of the game of the established great bourgeois class rivalries that the people pay for in the end. no expectations from the european union, nato and the united states. they are 'together with their competitors' the source of the problem rather than the solution. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, none of us will go down in history, but the coronavirus will. so why do we treat it as if it's a problem that we don't all have or that we'll soon stop having? how are we so irresponsible? the virus is faster, more effective, more consistent than our measures to prevent and control it, and the coming of winter will only increase its advantage over us. but we politicians continue to confuse reality with wishful thinking: as much as we want this nightmare to end, it's not going to end unless we treat it as the health, economic and social emergency that it is. we were wrong when we pretended that summer would be over and we were wrong again by telling the lie that the vaccine will arrive before christmas. we're submitting vaccination plans and we don't have any vaccine. we must prepare for a struggle that will last for years. in spain, for example, the virus has killed 50,000 people in just eight months. there are one million infected; three hundred thousand people are infected every month. what are we doing arguing about other things? mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, do you not think it is time to have a common strategy to combat the pandemic? how many more people have to die in europe? the lives and health of millions of people on our continent are at stake, the collapse of health systems, the survival of our small and mediumsized business fabric, the ability of millions of families to afford food, clothing or heating. that is why it is even less understood that, in these circumstances, boris johnson is burning the bridges linking him to the continent, condemning the future of the british economy to the impossible. if donald trump loses the election, boris johnson will have no friends left in the world. let us be responsible, let us stand united behind our negotiator and ask our negotiator to negotiate on behalf of all, for the good of the british people too. in this day and age, collaboration is survival.
mr president, when we last discussed the negotiations in the context of mr hansen’s and my report on the eu—uk partnership in june, we had only 204 days left before the end of the transition period. today that number is down to 73. prime minister johnson then gave assurances that all it would take to come to an agreement was a little oomph and self imposed a deadline: first, in july, and then on 15 october. but instead of a real engagement in the negotiations, the uk decided to put forward an internal market bill which breaches international law, jeopardises the good friday agreement and ruined the good faith between the negotiators. and here we are in the midst of a second wave of the corona crisis with all its economic consequences, and the uk government, for reasons no one can really grasp, decided to walk away from the negotiation table one minute before midnight, because we do not need a deal in 73 days: we need it within two weeks. only then will this parliament be able to ensure the agreement’s full democratic scrutiny. because, president, let this be very clear to the uk government: since the beginning of the transition period, the european parliament has diligently and consistently taken its responsibility in reaching an agreement because we believe that finding one would be in the interests of both the eu and uk citizens. but under no circumstances will we now be bullied by mr johnson into rubber stamping just any last—minute deal after the uk government chose to run down the clock on the negotiations since february. and our position has not changed. we have always been very clear regarding our red lines. top social, labour and environmental standards, fair competition, effective governance, a sustainable agreement on fisheries and full compliance with the withdrawal agreement. parliament remains fully committed to a comprehensive agreement with the united kingdom. but let me draw a clear line in the sand. if the uk government does not remove those provisions in the internal market bill that are in clear breach of international law, this parliament cannot and will not consent to any agreement. and finally, let me underline once again that we, the european parliament, just like the council, are absolutely united in our support for our negotiator, michel barnier. mr barnier, we wish you the very best for the coming few weeks of hopefully intensified negotiations with a good outcome. now it’s up to the uk government to deliver on its promises for a comprehensive agreement in line with the political declaration and the withdrawal agreement to which mr johnson himself signed up to. we, on our side, are ready.
mr president, i might not like to say it, but i think it has to be said also here in this house. boris johnson has been lying to the people in the uk: the gbp 350 million for the nhs after brexit; no customs checks between northern ireland and the rest of the uk; and then this oven-ready deal that basically just needed signing on the future relations between the eu and the uk. come on, these lies have to stop. if we want to turn this around, truth has to be spoken. first, brexit is a mess. second, finding a solution to this mess is not going to be easy for either side, but thirdly, and i think this is important, there might not be a good outcome to this, but there are many different levels of how difficult this can become. so, prime minister, stop blaming others for your own actions, take responsibility and come back to the negotiation table and avoid the worst outcome for the people in the uk. you owe it to them. (applause)
mr president, 52 months have passed since the uk's withdrawal referendum and we still have no agreement on future conditions. i would remind you that the united kingdom voted only 51.9% in the referendum, and that scotland and northern ireland, for example, voted to remain. a society totally divided. unfortunately we have seen boris johnson quickly join the trumpist current of white men imposing, threatening and disdaining negotiation or cooperation. we support mr barnier in his negotiations and at this time and in this situation europe must not join in this way of doing things in any form or substance. we must always have a hand out for the benefit of all the populations. yes, from firmness, defending our strategic sectors, facing the consequences in the primary sector and ensuring contingency plans, but above all we must give priority to the most vulnerable part: the rights of citizens, ensuring resources to guarantee these rights. and finally, we must also learn from this process, change the policies that, in the face of the crisis, left out a large part of the citizens. and in the face of this new crisis, we must ensure a bill of rights, a strong social pillar and a bill that invites us to stay.
mr president, another european council goes on without concrete advances on brexit. in addition, even when the deadline is ever closer, i hope for a good deal that ensures that citizens and enterprises can continue to live and operate normally both in the uk and in the eu. we are in the middle of one of the worst economic crises of our history. we are obliged not to worsen it with political games. on the other hand, brexit is a reminder that borders change, as we all know. today, support for scottish independence is sky high in the latest polls with about 58% of the vote. the future of scotland is in scottish hands and we all hope that westminster will again give an example to the world of how to tackle this kind of situation. london needs to show again how a mature democracy behaves. the uk needs to remind the eu that a referendum is something to agree on, not an excuse to put political rivals in prison as spain has done. very soon, scotland will vote again to decide its future and the house of european democracy must be wide open for their immediate return.
mr president, the discussion between eu leaders at this month’s summit covered some pivotal topics for our union. i fully support further eu coordination in terms of the pandemic and ambition in our fight against climate change. however, it is the ongoing negotiations with the united kingdom that will have the most immediate and severe effects for my home country of ireland. i’ve always been optimistic that when it came down to it, a deal would be reached. this i drew from the competency and fairness with which i have seen michel barnier do his great work. but recently our confidence lessened in this regard because of the shifting sands of boris johnson’s desires and his collection of supporters in parliament who seem more than willing to not only contradict themselves, but also contradict the foundation of the united kingdom’s reputation by voting to willingly breach international law. on paper, with our years of close cooperation, the remaining issues on brexit seem achievable. the sharing of fishing rights and policing state subsidies to industry should not be deal breakers to close allies of 47 years. the real problem is the lack of trust in the seriousness of any commitments that the united kingdom might give, which was most distinctly displayed by the abrasive introduction of the internal market bill and the legal justification for same. sometimes we get the sense that the united kingdom is more concerned with short-term optics than long-term substance. nobody in the eu, ireland – and indeed the united kingdom if they are truly honest – wants an extremely disruptive no-deal. there is a danger that a last-minute agreement could break down into a multitude of legal disputes within a year or so. this must be avoided. to my friends in the united kingdom, i say: there is room for a deal in line with your previous agreements that will finally provide certainty to businesses and citizens and avoid economic catastrophe. i plead with you to meet the eu halfway and ensure that ordinary people do not become casualties of ideology. mr johnson, bin the bluster and get the deal done. (applause)
mr president, first of all as rapporteur of this parliament for the implementation of the withdrawal agreement, i would like to express my support to the european commission and vice-president šefčovič for their efforts to ensure full compliance by the uk of the withdrawal agreement, and their commitments under international law. we’ve always said that trust is a prerequisite for a sound and future economic relationship, and we mean it. and now that the uk internal market bill is under discussion between the house of lords and the house of commons, this parliament recalls that we expect nothing less than full compliance with the withdrawal agreement. as to the negotiations of the future relationship, i would also like to express full support to michel barnier and his team, and thank him for his remarkable patience and the responsible and firm manner in which he is pursuing the goal of reaching an unprecedented, but also fair and balanced agreement. i can imagine that mr boris johnson is having great fun playing with brexit, playing with the no—deal scenario and the blame game. but i believe that citizens and businesses expect a much more responsible attitude. but let me say that i don’t see how mr boris johnson can win the blame game in this case. we are running out of time - yes - but he was the one to refuse any extension of the transition period. he was the one to announce the breach by the uk of the withdrawal agreement and international law commitments. he was the one to refuse to apply the commitments on the level playing field on state aid, that were already agreed as objectives in the political declaration, and he is now the one who is refusing to receive michel barnier and took the decision to suspend the negotiations. so i believe that we need a responsible attitude. the eu has shown the political will to reach an agreement. we are waiting to see the same attitude from the part of the uk government. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'll speak danish and bring greetings from copenhagen. brexit is tragic in every way, and it may seem completely incomprehensible why brexit should be a good idea. since world war ii, all european countries have been working to remove barriers to trade. and now we're sitting here discussing how we can make it more cumbersome and difficult to trade with each other. it simply does not make sense, but it is the choice of the british people and we must respect that, but we cannot and should not respect the fact that british companies should be able to compete with danish companies on terms that are not equal and fair. i have visited danish fishermen in thyborøn, shipping companies in esbjerg, farmers in southern jutland, i have spoken to industry all over europe and the service sector, everywhere the same basic message is heard: brexit is a mess, brexit is going to cost money, brexit is going to cost welfare. on the eu side, we must stand together - and we have succeeded so far, not least thanks to the great efforts of the eu's chief negotiator, michel barnier. and we must make one last attempt to find each other in an agreement. it will not be easy: as my colleagues in the house have said, there are huge problems in fisheries. there are huge problems as to what rules of the game should apply to trade going forward. and the british must understand that when the british side raises doubts as to whether it will at all respect the agreements it has signed, then we become rather sceptical. it simply needs to be in place so that we can rely on each other going forward. the eu must be fair, but we must not be fools. thank you for speaking. and i wish michel barnier every success in the negotiations ahead.
mr president, first of all, i would like to convey my full support to michel barnier and his team in the brexit negotiations and wish them the best of luck in the months ahead. today, however, i wanted to talk about the fact that unfortunately the council did not tackle the issue of climate change as we would have liked at the last meeting. it is urgent that the 60% we have proposed for the climate law be adopted by the european institutions and by the majority of the member states. moreover, we need to align all our policies with that objective and yesterday parliament failed to vote on the cap. as greens, we are not satisfied with a reform that will not defend our biodiversity, that will not guarantee a transition to another mode of production and, therefore, we will fail with the cap and we will have a big black hole in the fight against climate change. but there's another place we can't fail: the recovery fund. we cannot allocate 750 billion euros without a clear objective of ecological transformation. and it's fine to spend 37 percent on the climate target, but we can't, at the same time, pour money into highways, into fossil fuels. that, in the regulations we are going to negotiate, must be avoided and i hope that everyone will cooperate.
mr president, mr barnier, the absence of a trade agreement with the united kingdom is very bad news for both sides, but especially very bad news for european farmers and fishermen. brexit increases uncertainty for an agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sector hit by the pandemic and a price crisis in many eu countries. farmers have one eye on the cap and another on the brexit negotiations. spain, my country, exports annually to the united kingdom eur 4 000 million, of which eur 2 000 million is in fruit and vegetables, eur 400 million in wine and eur 200 million in olive oil. 10% of agri-food products are imported from the united kingdom of spain. i ask the european commission to tell us urgently what support measures it is going to give to the agri-food sector, and it is time to demand an answer on how and when the commission intends to activate the 5 billion euro agricultural reserve for brexit. and now let me simply tell mr puigdemont - who i think has left - to learn the difference between an illegal and a legal referendum. the brexit was legal. yours was illegal and, moreover, a pantomime.
in writing. the topics of discussion were: eu-uk negotiations, climate policy debate and the field of external relations with a special focus on africa, and the issues of the poisoning of russian opposition leader alexei navalny and the management of the coronavirus pandemic were re-addressed. the spanish delegation welcomes the council's recommendation to coordinate in a clear and precise way the measures affecting free movement between member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the internet. the dse offers its full support to brexit negotiator michel barnier for the final months of negotiations with the uk which are expected to be complicated to a great extent due to the irresponsible attitude of british prime minister boris johnson. a future friendly relationship between the eu and the uk will undoubtedly be mutually beneficial, but for that to happen, mr johnson must respect the withdrawal agreement and the community rules on social, labour, environmental and taxation.
in writing. the topics of discussion were: eu-uk negotiations, climate policy debate and the field of external relations with a special focus on africa, and the issues of the poisoning of russian opposition leader alexei navalny and the management of the coronavirus pandemic were re-addressed. the spanish delegation welcomes the council's recommendation to coordinate in a clear and precise way the measures affecting free movement between member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the internet. the dse offers its full support to brexit negotiator michel barnier for the final months of negotiations with the uk which are expected to be complicated to a great extent due to the irresponsible attitude of british prime minister boris johnson. a future friendly relationship between the eu and the uk will undoubtedly be mutually beneficial, but for that to happen, mr johnson must respect the withdrawal agreement and the community rules on social, labour, environmental and taxation.
madam president, fellow members of the house of representatives, the future of the union depends on whether, in the current crisis, we can re-create the economic backdrop of the european model of which we are so proud. as a responsible decision-maker, you must first secure the economic foundations. the european semester is the compass for this work. only then can we achieve our ambitious goals, such as the digital transition or climate action, and only then can we return to growth, preserve jobs and create new ones. this strategy can't exist without rules. even in the current pandemic and crisis, they have provided member states with sufficient flexibility to increase financial freedom. in the course of the negotiations, i saw that the main objective of the left is to break down the essence of economic policy coordination and fiscal rules one by one; the people's party is not a partner in this. the left wants to see the instrument of coordination between member states, the semester for crisis prevention and management, which we established during the hungarian presidency, filled with all kinds of fashionable topics. if the left succeeds in realizing its vision, then we can say goodbye to competitiveness. there's no such thing as a free lunch. if we funded all the left-wing ideas, it would trigger a spending spree that would eventually lead to the elimination of jobs. we cannot allow our economic policy to become a tangle of competing goals. these ideas were voted down by the economic committee, and the left is now trying to smuggle them back with amendments. irresponsible economic policies would jeopardise the union's recovery and put future generations into debt. hungarian citizens have learned what communism is like under the socialist-liberal governments and they don't want it again. and our liberal colleagues are already thinking of a european federation with a common finance minister, which would significantly reduce the powers of the member states. this is contrary to the treaties and would upset the balance between the member states and brussels in political and economic policy coordination. in times of crisis, such thinking will rob you of time and energy to do what is important, not help you to get back on your feet. so i ask my fellow mps not to vote for the amendments, not to be partners in irresponsible economic policy ideas.
madam president, the past financial crisis and the answer the eu has given show how cuts in public services had a negative impact on our economic, environmental and social recovery. no progress in poverty reduction and social inclusion shows that many of our social welfare systems are not robust and resilient enough to absorb social shocks during a crisis and also transition. this is why we socialists and democrats urge member states to stop considering public services as a cost but, on the contrary, as an investment to guarantee a decent life for all of us in the union. and a decent life means wellbeing that includes access to quality education and jobs, as well as social security, healthcare, housing, justice and social services, and also especially for vulnerable groups. to achieve this, it’s important to change the mind-set of many eu leaders and to come forward with a model that puts social and environmental challenges on an equal footing with economic ones. this is the only way to align our eu policies with the three dimensions of the sdgs and to avoid a lost generation. if we want our next generation in europe to be strong and resilient, we must invest in their future and therefore must consider child guarantee and youth guarantee amongst the most precious instruments we have. dear colleagues, child guarantee and youth guarantee can only be successful if we allocate sufficient financial means and if we are able to show creativity when it comes to shaping them and implementing them. let me finish by thanking ms dobrev and mr schuster and the shadows for their excellent reports.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as long as green investments are seen as mere deficits without future benefits, we will deny european countries a solidary and green future for a more viable and liveable society. of course, i agree that economic policy coordination is necessary, but the current rules do not distinguish between spending to maintain a system that is out of breath and spending to build a future for ourselves and our children. a new approach is therefore essential to enhance green investments. new indicators that serve the real economy and our planet must be taken into account in the calculation of deficits. let us exclude, among other things, the expenditure linked to the ecological transition and, above all, let us stop using indicators dating from the 1930s, whose obsolescence has been demonstrated by the health crisis. the public services, the ones that serve our planet, are not deficits, they are the real economy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable in the european union to have 100 million citizens at risk of poverty and 700 000 people without a home. we cannot remain indifferent, we must act and each of us must do our part. the european union provides many resources, such as the european social fund, the youth guarantee, followed by the child guarantee. they must be put to good use and made available, in particular to social solidarity institutions such as ipss and misericordie. but then we have to go to the causes, promote individual autonomy, help social ascension. that is how we give back dignity to our citizens, and for that we have to bet on the economy, which has to be resilient, has to be competitive, has to be sustainable. we can't be afraid of the words productivity and sustainability, and the entrepreneurship that's required. we must also help businesses, especially small and mediumsized enterprises. and that is why, commissioner, it is unacceptable that the council has cut a solvency instrument precisely to support companies in difficulty. it is unacceptable that the council has cut investeu, which promotes investment. everyone has to do their part. the european commission has done its part, and parliament has done its part. member states not all. the council has not done its job to fight poverty, to promote inclusion, to help small and mediumsized enterprises, and i hope that an instrument like sure will be transformed from temporary to permanent and that it will also be an instrument in which the european parliament is also involved. we are, of course, in favour of the community method.
madam president, covid-19 is striking us with a dramatic balance of loss of life and millions of jobs. the european union has assumed its responsibility and is responding to the enormous and constant needs. it is now time for the member states to make a particular effort in each country to strengthen our national health systems and to promote economic recovery and employment. employment is the best social policy to combat poverty. but we must also be vigilant that, in the chaos of the crisis, partisan agendas do not take precedence over the common and collective good. the pillars of the union must be kept intact by a firm defence of the separation of powers. and the european funds are there to strengthen us. that is the way to go and not undermine the rule of law. to ensure that european aid is used properly, it is therefore essential that all levels of government, national, regional and local, are involved responsibly, together with the social partners, under the effective coordination of the european union. in spain, we must act immediately, using the funds to support sectors that have been brutally punished, such as tourism, hospitality and services. the spanish government should focus on implementing active policies to alleviate the 41% youth unemployment and apply tax cuts, abandoning restrictive policies aimed at maintaining the huge non-productive structural cost. the spanish people and the people of europe are looking at us with greater expectations than ever before, expecting us to come up with responsible solutions for the future, and to do so immediately.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, for years, those of you who governed the eu have told us that europe had a strong economic and social model that could do anything. however, it has taken 15 days of the pandemic to show our weakness. fortunately, we have been able to push through an agreement on this occasion for the essential recovery fund, which can be distributed fairly or can benefit them again. why do we say this? because europe is a place of enormous asymmetries and usually only a few benefit from public resources. this is particularly serious in sectors such as industry, where we often see relocations that have taken advantage of subsidies, condemned thousands of workers to unemployment and left us without the capacity to produce what we need. an example of this is here in spain: alcoa. however, we believe that the crisis can be an opportunity to change things. the pandemic has shown that only public control can guarantee the well-being of all. so we need an industry that is subject to public control and planning and, of course, that responds to the challenges of the climate emergency and creates quality jobs. that is why, mr gentiloni, i take this opportunity to ask you, in these days when the future of airbus' workforce is being negotiated, to focus on what is important and to make an effort to ensure that the way out of this crisis is to defend strategic sectors such as aerospace. let us unwaveringly support the working women who are the real creators of wealth in europe. let us make an effort to demand that european funds serve to secure quality employment and the future of our people.
madam speaker, just as there is a consensus among virologists to restrict our individual freedoms and try to limit the progress of the pandemic, there is also a consensus among economists that governments need to increase their leeway and spend a lot of money now, on a timely basis, to prevent the economy from collapsing during a time as complicated as the current one. that is why, from europe, we have agreed on this recovery fund of 750 billion euros, which will enable all countries to have a cushion and help in getting their economies to recover and rebuild in the best possible way. this means that governments have much more room for manoeuvre than without it, but this very opportunity also has some obvious risks. we must prevent governments from using this european money to build new elites of their own, to build client networks that together manage to perpetuate themselves in power. this money - european funds - should in no way be money to finance a long election campaign for any government. that's why it's so important that now that we're negotiating the recovery and resilience facility regulation with the governments and the groups in the european parliament, that we put in place clear and demanding rules to ensure that the money is used for the good of the europeans, that we put in place those controls to ensure that it's not used to build those client networks or to run that long election campaign. the prestige and future of the european union also depend on this money being spent well. if we do not, in five or six years' time people will see this as a failed experiment and we will never see this solidarity between europeans again.
madam president, my message is this: we will not achieve a genuine recovery and a socially sustainable europe without measures adapted to the tragic situation we are living in, which deal with its consequences not only economically but also socially. we therefore need to invest in measures and funds for permanent recovery, governed by indicators, within the european semester, which guarantee investment in welfare and social protection systems, putting the principles of the social pillar into action. only with a multiannual financial framework and an ambitious recovery fund focused equally on economic growth aspects and social objectives can we move towards a truly sustainable europe that invests in what really matters: people. the covid-19 crisis is affecting our health, living conditions and, above all, employment. we therefore also need a commitment from all the social partners and businesses to commit themselves to maintaining economic activity and employment in return for the aid they receive, avoiding business relocation processes that lead to mass redundancies. the idea is very simple: a socially sustainable europe means investing in public welfare systems. the welfare state, like the rule of law, is a hallmark of our european union, and we must continue to strive for it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, global deforestation is a problem that unites us, and yet reports like the one we are discussing divide us. we cannot use the fight against deforestation to attack data-free biotechnology or start the transition to a vegan paradise. we cannot stigmatize a crop like soybeans, which is essential for feeding our livestock and which comes mainly from the united states of america, a country where there is no deforestation. i think it is counterproductive to ridicule the efforts of the sector through certification or voluntary agreements. only through realistic targets and loyal cooperation with the sector will we achieve the objective of reducing deforestation outside the european union. i'd like to be very clear. we must ban all imports of products from deforested areas into the european union, but let us not focus the debate exclusively on latin america: deforestation is much greater in parts of asia and africa, which we are not talking about.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on this report is very important in the fight against global deforestation and i want to congratulate delara burkhardt because i think she has done an excellent job. we have adopted a report on the climate emergency in this parliament, we have also adopted the climate law to achieve neutrality and i believe that today we are taking another step towards making the european parliament the most environmentally friendly institution in the world, a house which is at the forefront of the fight against the effects of climate change. ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about them this afternoon, but what do forests mean? forests are unique ecosystems that are home to 60,000 different tree species, 80% of amphibian species, 75% of bird species and 68% of mammal species on earth. they are natural carbon sinks of incalculable value in basic natural processes such as air and water purification, carbon absorption or temperature regulation. this is what the woods mean. how do we protect ourselves? commissioner, under article 225 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, it is clear that there will be a legislative proposal. i hope he'll introduce us to her soon. you can tell that to the president, ursula von der leyen. we must protect forest ecosystems, and i do not want to forget natural ecosystems, wetlands. we need to include binding sustainable development chapters in free trade agreements such as mercosur, thus fulfilling the paris agreement and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. mrs burkhard, i congratulate you on paragraph 46 of the report. so, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the sixth mass extinction of species. the holocene can end at any moment if we continue like this, so let us use this momentum, the momentum of this afternoon and of this report to protect and preserve ecosystems, biodiversity and forests.
mr. president, yesterday they were forests and jungles of rugged thickness, where the mist floated and the fountain gushed out, today they are arid hills that have deformed and black deep fissures. this is what rosalía de castro, a galician poet, said about the destruction of forests. and it's true, every forest has a story, stories of protecting the human being. by dispossessing the forests, we are protecting ourselves. that is what this report is about and i would also like to congratulate mrs delara burkhardt on that. because this report helps us fight deforestation everywhere on the planet by setting the rules of the game for our consumption patterns. we need better regulation. we also need to protect the primeval forests, the primitive, the indigenous. not just outside the european union. here too we are suffering from deforestation and the replacement by other agro-industrial production models. that's why we have to defend ourselves here, too. and to remember that cutting down a forest, dispossessing it, is fuelling climate change and is also causing the flight of its inhabitants, not only of those biodiversities but also of humans. the european union will therefore be well placed to call for regulations that protect forests at all levels.
the importance of this report on gender equality in the european union's foreign and security policy, for which i congratulate ernest urtasun, is mainly due to three issues. firstly, women are still underrepresented in the representation and management of the community's external policy. second, differentiated socialization, the historical linking of the feminist movement with the pacifist movement has always meant that women's participation in conflict resolution has been more linked to life, more linked to peace. this differentiated approach is therefore necessary. and third, because these conflicts affect us women unequally, and we need to have our voices heard. this day coincides with the 20th anniversary of the united nations resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. and 20 years later, if we look at what is happening in belarus, we see that women are still approaching conflict resolution in a different way, much more peaceful, embodying the values of democracy and harmony that we want to remain the values that represent the european union. it is therefore very necessary that we make progress precisely in the inclusion of gender equality in our foreign policy.
mr president, equal treatment starts with you. it has to do with the freedom we have in our culture and with education and civilization. i therefore wholeheartedly support this resolution and feel that equal treatment of men and women must be addressed, because it is clear from practice that there is still no equal treatment outside europe, but also within europe. i call on everyone who sees discrimination against women or men or any other discrimination to report it directly to the organizations responsible. and possibly, if those organizations don't want to act, to the media, to create enough pressure to end that discrimination. in this case, i would like to draw attention to a form of discrimination that i have observed in one of the largest organizations of what is perhaps the largest side business in the world, namely football, uefa and fifa. when i watch the champions league football matches, i see the european flag. next, i'm going to look at the fifa rules. and there is just a lot of discrimination against women's football! it is literally in rule 20 of those rules. i wrote to fifa about it. and what does it show? they answer and say: mr. manders, we know that. so they're literally saying, we know that and we have set up a study group to see if we need to change it and to see if it is in the interest of women's football that we end this discrimination! i call on the commission and all members to do something about this. please write a letter to fifa to amend article 20!
mr. president, i have to ask you... today we're talking about women, their indispensable role in conflict resolution and peacebuilding. the debate is very important to strengthen gender equality in foreign policy, including in the response to the coronavirus epidemic. women and girls are the most vulnerable to violence worldwide, and the european union must do much more. we call on the high representative of the union to invest more funds to promote the training of women to become more involved in humanitarian situations. sex should not be an obstacle. in fact, women and girls in crisis areas are often subjected to sexual violence, which is also used as a military tactic. women can no longer be victims, peace lasts much longer when women are included in peace negotiations. today, less than 10% of them are. we must ensure parity, we must guarantee them conditions if we are to be true champions of women's rights in europe. we want binding action, and this year marks the anniversary of the beijing conference and the un resolution on women's rights.
mr president, women remain largely unrepresented and undervalued in politics and the decision—making process in the eu and beyond. nonetheless, the european union has committed to the united nations sustainable development goal to promote and achieve gender equality. this also counts for our foreign and security policy. aside from the aspect of equal representation, women’s participation also has an added value. studies show that our contribution to peace negotiations has led to long—lasting peace agreements and improved human security. we can see some progress as almost all eu delegations have carried out a detailed gender analysis and the number of women deployed to security and defence missions and operations has increased, but we are still far from reaching a real balance. as the ppe shadow rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs (afet) opinion to this report, i welcome the guidelines on gender mainstreaming for eu civilian missions and call to extend this concept to all other relevant missions, departments and delegations related to our foreign policy. only in this way can we fully promote recognition of the significant role women play at the local, national and international levels. to conclude, i would like to call on the high representative and the commission to intensify their actions to reach our ambition of a gender balance by the end of the mandate. gender mainstreaming requires not only high—level policy statements but also a real political commitment.
member of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank members for this very, very good and interesting discussion. women’s meaningful participation in all matters related to foreign and security policy has a wider relevance to the central role of the european union in contributing to efforts to achieve peace, security and sustainable development. the action plan will enable us to walk that talk by putting resources where our priorities are, including by reiterating our commitment that 85% of all new eu actions promote gender equality as a significant or principal objective. i would also like to re-confirm that the commission and the external action service attach great importance to ensuring equal opportunities and diversity of staff in management positions and we are already taking concrete steps to this end. within the commission, the gender equality strategy adopted earlier this year gives concrete steps to reach 50-50 equal gender balance in management positions at the commission. at the external action service, the work is jointly done with the member states as, by nominating one third of the staff, they have a direct contribution to our objective. today, men hold 66% of middle management positions and 74% of senior management posts, while almost 27% of the heads of delegations are women. although this is an improvement, i fully agree with the members on the need to further promote gender balance in the eu’s external representation and reach full equality. this will be addressed as part of the gender action plan (gap) iii, and work is already ongoing to work towards a similar target as for the commission. mr president, putting women and young people in the driving seat of the recovery: i strongly believe this will be the most effective way to collectively respond to the global challenges that we are facing worldwide at this very critical moment of our human history. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking everybody who contributed to our debate. i think that the debate showed that there is a broad majority in parliament behind what we are going to adopt tomorrow, and this is extremely good news. i would also like to thank the commissioner for her words and for being with us. hannah neumann and i liked a lot her mention that she wants to build a gender—responsive and geopolitical commission. we liked that approach a lot. i think this is one of the good conclusions of our debates. but i think in general that we are all worried about the backlash on women’s rights that is happening all around the world, and that is really something that needs to be an additional motivation for us, to push for this feminist foreign policy that we all want. three things before i come to an end. firstly, as you mentioned, madam commissioner, i think that the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici) regulation is going to be an important tool to achieve gender equality and an important instrument for us. i hope that in the negotiations the targets on gender equality will remain as high as proposed. this is one of the key issues in the coming months. secondly, i think it’s important to say that the commitment to improve the presence of women both in the eeas, in the commission, and in our delegations is an important target. i would like to remind the house that the high representative has committed to the 40% target of eu heads of delegation by the end of the term. i think that it should be a joint goal to achieve that, and so i’m very much looking for the actions that that you will be undertaking and, of course, we will be very attentive to the presentation of gap iii in november, which is going to be the most important tool that we will have to achieve all of these goals. so, all in all, i just want to conclude by thanking everybody, thanking the commissioner. let’s make a gender—responsive commission and gender—responsive eu foreign and security policy a reality.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place today, 22 october 2020, and the final vote will take place tomorrow, 23 october 2020.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on serious security threats through the sale of eu passports and visas to criminals (2020/2824 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you that there will be no catch-the-eye procedure for all the debates in this part-session and no blue card questions and observations on the application of the rules of procedure will be accepted. it also provides for possible remote assistance from parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to reiterate what commission president ursula von der leyen said forcefully last month in her state of the union address to this parliament: european values are not for sale. unfortunately, this statement does not seem as clear as it should be everywhere in the union. some member states have in fact set up systems allowing wealthy investors and their family members to obtain a passport in exchange for the payment of a large sum of money or a substantial investment, without having a real link with the member state in question. such programmes have clear implications for all other member states and for the union as a whole. becoming a national of a member state automatically gives you citizenship of the union and all the rights attached to it. a foreign investor who acquires the nationality of a member state of the union can, on this basis, immediately go to any other member state, engage in economic activity there and benefit from the principle of non-discrimination between european citizens in a number of areas. they may even participate in the democratic process, in particular by exercising their right to vote and stand as candidates in european or municipal elections. for several years now, these programmes have been a source of great concern, notably for this house and the commission. the commission has worked hard on this matter, as it is also a european issue with european values at stake. in january 2019, the commission published its first-ever report on investor citizenship schemes and investor residence schemes operated in the eu. the report clearly spelled out the inherent risks of such schemes, in particular as regards security, money laundering, tax evasion and corruption. since the beginning of this commission's mandate, we have continuously raised this concern with the member states concerned, urging them to reconsider their decision to operate such schemes. since the beginning of my mandate, i have had a constant dialogue with the relevant member states where i repeatedly highlighted the commission's concerns and urged them to reconsider their decision to operate such schemes. before the pandemic, i met personally with the ministers of the relevant member states to discuss investor citizenship schemes. in april, i followed up with letters asking to reconsider the schemes. i also had several calls with the competent ministers to follow up on their commitments to provide more information on their government's plan. while both malta and cyprus may have the intention to apply some changes to their investor citizenship schemes, they appear to be determined to continue their schemes in some form. we need to convince them not to do that. ladies and gentlemen, a series of recent scandals in cyprus and malta only confirm the serious concerns we have already expressed. in its report, the commission undertook to monitor the compliance of the existing schemes with union law and, if necessary, to take the necessary measures. today i am here to tell you that the commission is delivering on that commitment. the commission decided this week to open infringement proceedings against the citizenship by investment programmes set up by cyprus and malta. eu citizenship is a collection of shared rights that all member states provide in solidarity. together, the member states create the conditions for the enjoyment of eu citizenship. the european court of justice has been clear: it is for each member state to lay down the conditions for the acquisition and loss of nationality. but, as the court has also ruled, this power must be exercised having due regard for eu law. eu law requires member states to recognise the nationality of another member state without imposing any other conditions. as a result, the decision to naturalize a person by a member state is not limited to its own jurisdiction and is not neutral with respect to other member states. member states should therefore use their prerogatives to grant nationality with due regard for eu law and, in particular, the principle of sincere cooperation which is laid down in the treaties. a member state fails to fulfil that obligation when it establishes a scheme which systematically grants naturalisation in the absence of any real link with the state and on the sole basis of a financial investment or, in other words, where passports are for sale. over the span of only a couple of years, cyprus and malta have naturalised several thousand persons based on their schemes. the price for a european passport in those member states ranges between eur 1 million and eur 2 million. these investor citizenship schemes undermine the mutual trust of member states in each other's naturalisation procedures. this trust is a precondition for the effective enjoyment of eu citizenship rights. by undermining this trust, these schemes threaten the integrity of eu citizenship and its proper functioning and violate the principle of sincere cooperation. ladies and gentlemen, malta seems to have committed itself to replacing the current regime with a new programme, on largely unchanged a priori bases. in cyprus, while the government has announced the end of the current regime in the near future, the establishment of a new programme is already being discussed. but the issue is too important to wait for the process to be completed. we are now taking action to show our determination and commitment not to accept that citizenship of the union is marketed as a mere convenience. i think we can all agree on one important point: the principles and values of the union are weakened if membership of the european project, the rights deriving from it and participation in its democratic life are merely an economic transaction. let me also add a couple of words on bulgaria, which also operates an investor citizenship scheme. this week, the commission sent a letter to the bulgarian authorities strongly urging them to phase out their scheme in the context of an ongoing national legislative procedure to change the bulgarian citizenship law. we have also asked for additional information on the scheme. the commission will not hesitate to consider an infringement procedure against bulgaria if necessary. finally, the commission has not forgotten about schemes that give foreign investors access to residence permits, also called golden visas. while golden visa schemes do not raise the same legal issues as schemes that result in the acquisition of eu citizenship, there is often a close interaction between the two types of scheme, as residence can be a prerequisite for the acquisition of nationality. most of the inherent risks of such schemes, for example regarding security, money laundering and corruption, are the same. third-country nationals with a valid eu residence permit can travel freely, in particular in the schengen area. this means that if one member state does not apply the necessary security checks, other member states can be negatively affected. member states should therefore ensure that all necessary steps are taken to prevent security, corruption, tax evasion and money laundering risks. they must also apply rigorous and transparent criteria to identify and combat crime and corruption. the commission has expressed its concern about the risks inherent in residence schemes and about the fact that these risks are not always sufficiently mitigated by the measures taken by member states. in this context, the commission continues to closely monitor these schemes and their application, to ensure compliance with eu law, including the need to carry out all mandatory border and security checks, in line with the eu acquis prior to the issuance of any permit. the same applies to citizenship schemes operated by third countries, including some candidate countries, which enjoy visa-free access to the union. such access should not be used as a marketing tool to attract money in exchange for citizenship. following the adoption of its january 2019 report, the commission requested information and raised concerns with all visa-exempt third countries that are implementing or planning citizenship by investment programmes, in close cooperation with the european external action service. as a result, some countries have already abolished their schemes and others have ended their plans. we will continue to monitor the matter closely to assess any potential security risks associated with these schemes. i am glad that i was able to explain the commission's policy to your parliament this morning and i would be very happy to take note of your comments and answer your questions.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for coming here and for starting the infringement procedures. i think that is most welcome and we knew that it had been in the pipeline for quite some time. however, this house has been debating the problems with golden passport since 2014. why did it take so long? why did the authorities wait so long to intervene? why did we have to wait for brave journalists to uncover the scandals that we all suspected for a long time? and some of these journalists have paid a very high price – the highest price, as we know. but journalists are not responsible for law enforcement. the authorities are, and the authorities are failing. those who have a legitimate interest in investing in the european economy can do so without problem, and no golden passport nor golden visa scheme can ever really be clean and legitimate – because due diligence that relies on cooperation with the russian and the chinese and the saudi authorities, frankly, can never be watertight – and i’m being polite here. despite the fancy names of the schemes – you know ‘residency by investment’ sounds nice, evokes these images of villas and yachts, and what have you – in reality, they are just a golden backdoor into the european union for criminals, criminals. it’s not investment; it is criminal money. now, we need a full ban, and we’re calling on the european commission, not for the first time, to propose legislation, and i’m proud to say that at the initiative of my group renew europe, the committee for civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) committee is going to draft a legislative initiative calling for a ban on golden passports. but of course this is a national competence. you know, national governments cannot sell what is not theirs to sell, and that is eu citizenship. it isn’t theirs, they cannot sell it. so are governments, is the council finally also going to take responsibility, or will they continue to knowingly facilitate criminals? the final question, commissioner: will you also address the ‘legacy’ of those who have already received a cypriot or maltese or other passport? will there be a second screening to see what kind of people we have actually elevated to the status of eu citizen?
on behalf of the id group. mr president, first of all, i should like to say that it is always a pleasure for me to speak from the strasbourg parliament, where i hope we will soon be allowed to return regularly to hold our plenary sessions. is it any wonder that the cyprus golden visa scandal has been triggered, since the costly acquisition of citizenship and residence permits could only serve fraudulent purposes? the fact that montenegro, once again the provider of such facilities, continues to be in the lead for the next european enlargement demonstrates the commission's indifference to a tangible security threat. the eu has also been active in the fight against fraud, and has been involved in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. the union therefore regrets the effects of the causes which it cherishes. firstly, its support for the interventionist states and, in this case, for the avowed supporters of radical islam. however, these visas are only part of a lucrative business that fuels the surge in migration and terrorism. the possible sale of bosnian visas to pakistani migrants, when two bosnian nationals were suspected of terrorism, or the profile of the fake minor who carried out the paris attacks, are examples of this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the european passport is one of the most tangible results of european cooperation. it gives rights to all who have it, and therefore this right and this passport cannot be sold. eu passports decide who has access to our citizenship and who does not. and if that decision is made on the basis of the purse and not on the basis of who is integrated into our societies, who works here, who lives here, then the principle of european law is not in force, but the principle of the mafia. and that is why it is not acceptable that civil rights are put up for sale. it is not possible for one country to decide who gets access to it, but then to open up the rights in all eu countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and that is why it is unacceptable that the european commission has in fact done nothing for years. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. these infringement proceedings were out of date. finally, you're taking this on. this is good, this is right. but you should not only consider selling passports, but also golden visas. the portuguese programme, for example, has sold 25 000 golden visas over the last eight years for investments worth over five billion euros, and often this leads to citizenship. and that is why we must not close our eyes. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, not to adopt a double standard. visas are not allowed to be sold, not just passports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept them. the commission's current websites say very little. and finally, by the way, this is not my passport, but that of my colleague hanna neumann. she lent it to me for free.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now the european passport and golden visa business has been a well-known and growing phenomenon, and the cyprus scandal is only the latest in a long series. we have long allowed various member states to profit from citizenship and residence rights, allowing them to put a price on them, to exchange them for investments by wealthy foreign nationals. this market, which moves billions of euros and in which there are no common standard rules, is also exploited by criminals and corrupt actors who want to launder enormous amounts of money, often through illicit activities, by taking advantage of privileged tax regimes. the european institutions have for years expressed concerns about national residence and citizenship programmes for investors in the european union, but they only react decisively when scandals are the subject of investigative journalism, as was the case recently with the news of the launch of infringement proceedings against cyprus and malta. the european union cannot tolerate the selling of rights and values, which allows criminals from third countries to obtain passports or visas to move freely within the european territory, with serious consequences for internal security and leading to serious shortcomings in the fight against organised crime, money laundering, corruption, tax evasion and avoidance. the european union has a duty to put an end to the serious shortcomings of these programmes in terms of transparency and strict controls, safeguarding trust and the principle of loyal cooperation between member states and protecting europe's borders from criminals with financial resources.
president, golden passport, it almost sounds sympathetic, a bit like the golden wrappers from shakie and the chocolate factory. but in that book, roald dahl warns us that undesirable people with a lot of money can simply appropriate such a ticket, with all the consequences that follow. that's annoying for a chocolate factory. it is simply dangerous for a european union. so let us stop with the euphemism, golden passport, and let us just call the beast by its name. not a golden passport but a fake one! a rich russian or chinese who spends his dubious money and registers at a petrol station in malta is suddenly an eu citizen, with all the privileges and benefits that go with it. benefits and privileges for rich chinese and russians, for rich criminals, but the risks are for all of us: security risks, money laundering, tax evasion, corruption, circumvention of eu rules, risks that we have been warning about in this house for years. it is therefore good that the european commission is finally taking action. better late than never, so to speak. but infringement proceedings against two small member states are not enough! we really need strict and clear rules for the future to ensure that this kind of fraudulent passports are also effectively made impossible throughout the eu. the eu passport, that is the main conclusion, is a privilege and not a commodity. it's time we all got down to business.
mr president, over the years, millions risked their lives to gain an eu passport. if they only had 20 million! in fact, for that money, cyprus would have welcomed them with open arms. in fact, cyprus welcomed some of the very same people responsible for others fleeing their home. they welcomed the cousin of assad, they welcomed the associates of hun sen, the dictator of cambodia, and they welcomed known criminals and gave them safe access to the entire eu, so the eu is fully justified in taking action, and i applaud the commission’s infringement procedure. better late than never. but these alone won’t do the trick. criminals looking for a safe haven in the eu will find our weakest spots: today, cyprus and malta, tomorrow, montenegro and austria. this is why we need clear minimum requirements for citizenships and for residency. this means an end to fast—track procedures. this means – at least – strong anti—money laundering safeguards to ensure funds were legally obtained and this means clear requirements for the kind of investments allowed, investments that indeed require you to actually be here. most of all, instead of handing passports to criminals, i’d say we should save our passports for their victims.
mr president, they say that good news is not news, but when it comes to a decision that makes things more difficult for the big evasions and criminals, to me, of course, it seems like very good news. and i want it known in my country, spain, that the european commission is finally going to open infringement proceedings against cyprus and malta for selling passports to non-community nationals. for those of us in the house who were part of the previous legislature of the panama papers commission of inquiry, this is not only good news but necessary. it is not just a game of advantage to get money by selling the residence to the highest bidder or opening the door to citizenship of a country that combines european citizenship and freedom of movement and business. it is wrong, it is disloyal, it is a haven for friends of dictators and criminals, it poisons our democracies and facilitates networks of corruption. the so-called cyprus papers refer to convicted fraudsters and money launderers, public figures and politicians accused of corruption. no excuses: we need data to be checked. and of course it is essential to launch a review of suspicious awards, to review national systems of accelerated investment awards, especially those where there is no requirement of physical residence. and if bulgaria has to be apprehended and if it has to be sanctioned, so be it; and if my country has to be sanctioned, so be it. commissioner, to clear the playing field, you have our support.
mr president, welcome to this debate to expose the incoherence of the commission. because on the one hand, they are opening cases against hungary, poland and the czech republic for not accepting false refugees, who then behead professors in france, and yet they are opening cases against cyprus and malta for granting visas to investors who have no connection with the european union. i welcome the genuine links with europe, but apply it to all immigration policy. because what genuine links do the thousands of immigrants who are crammed onto the shores of algeria, libya or morocco have with europe? 2,600 illegals have been smuggled by the mafia in the last two weeks to the canary islands, more than in the whole of last year. stop looking at everything in economic and financial terms. stop saying that europeans need thousands of immigrants to pay for pensions, because that's not true. nations are not money. nations are spiritual, family and cultural bonds of historical communities and must be respected. we don't want visas for speculators, drug dealers and mobsters. but we also do not want visas for those young soldiers who come to europe to commit crimes and fight us in the streets.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the energy union is crucial and important for our economy and our transition to climate neutrality and, to make it a reality, europe must commit to resolving the bottleneck it has. there is no union without interconnection and, for example, the iberian peninsula is isolated in this respect. we see that the emission reduction targets for 2020 are going to be met. let us hope that this is not a mirage also derived from the pandemic and let us remember that we still have 34 million europeans who suffer from energy poverty and cannot adequately heat their homes. the report also shows that we are losing ground in research and development in europe compared to other blocs; we must promote them, we are reducing the number of patents. commissioner, parliament has just set its commitment to a 60% reduction, we have a strong will. i believe that the commission's work programme is ambitious in order to make progress on the green deal. we have all things pretty much in place; let's push them a little bit further and not be overcome by skepticism or the economic damage that this pandemic is doing.
in writing. the state of the energy union is a key instrument for measuring our progress towards cleaner energy, enabling us to meet the decarbonisation commitments agreed in the european climate law for 2030 and 2050. the state of the energy union allows us to analyse the weaknesses of our energy system and, above all, to show where we need to invest more. the new recovery and cohesion funds should be a key tool to ensure better energy efficiency in buildings, to invest in sustainable mobility plans and to reduce the use of fossil fuels by individuals and industry, through progressive electrification and investment in alternative sources such as green hydrogen and renewable energy. it is time to engage civil society, foster innovation and public-private partnerships to achieve greater energy independence and a greener and more digital europe. recovery funds, together with programmes such as the cef or the just transition fund, offer a unique opportunity to address the challenges of the future without leaving anyone behind.
mr president, we are approaching the final stretch of this budget, of this political instrument which will determine our lives for years to come. and while there are positive aspects to it, such as the reversal of cuts in education or research programmes, we are also concerned that it continues to allocate an immense amount of money to the militarisation of the eu, too much money to frontex. it is obvious that this is not our ideal proposal, but perhaps it is time to have a debate on how to manage it. in my opinion, it is clear: we must do everything possible to ensure democratic control; to ensure that public services and employment are strengthened so that no one is vulnerable either to a pandemic or to a lack of work; to make resources serve to recover productive sovereignty with public control. if the pandemic has shown us anything, it is our weakness: not a single paracetamol is produced in the eu. but above all, let us not deceive ourselves. if we allow the austerity rules to creep in, as the right wishes, and if we do not provide social conditionality and fair distribution, those who are spitting out their hateful project for europe from their seats will win.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 because it is a historic success: for the first time the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of investments initially agreed by the council, and it has been more than eur 15 billion. the agreement is an achievement of the s&d group in preserving the eu's ability to invest beyond the recovery plan. we have increased funding for strategic programmes (horizon, eu4health, erasmus+, creative europe, rights and values, humanitarian aid...) and secured funding for a just ecological transition. in addition, this agreement sets out a roadmap for the introduction of new eu own resources (non-recycled plastic and border carbon tax in 2021, digital tax in 2023, ttf and harmonised corporate tax in 2026) which, together with the issuance of federal public debt to finance the recovery plan, make possible the temporary financial union to become a permanent union in the future, being one of the keys to making full political union possible.
in writing. the agreement reached this week with the council for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) 2021-27 after months of negotiations is a historic success: for the first time since the mff came into being, the european parliament has managed to increase the amount of money initially agreed by the council. we have achieved an ambitious, progressive and people-centred multiannual budget. we have defended the 15 core eu programmes and ensured that none of their beneficiaries are left out of the new financial framework. we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social. the agreement reached also lays down a road map for the introduction of new own resources for the european union, which will allow us to finance our programmes on the one hand, and on the other to have a fairer tax system, which will oblige the big technology companies and the big multinationals, the most polluting companies and those who make financial transactions for speculation purposes only, to pay taxes in europe.
mr president, we are more confident today, after congratulating parliament's negotiators, especially eider gardiazabal and margarida marques, on reaching an agreement in which parliament has for the first time succeeded in increasing the figures proposed by the council and which also allows the new own resources to finance the flagship programmes in the budget. we are indeed pleased that this has been achieved, from development cooperation, from humanitarian aid, as the alternative rapporteur for the deve committee's opinion, but we cannot stop here. we need a commitment also for the 2021 budget. we therefore wish the rapporteur, mr pierre larrouturou, good luck in the conciliation period and hope that he will also reach a good agreement with the council. we have already been tricked once at the july council, when we lost the 5 billion euro for humanitarian aid. in the face of the tremendous crises that are coming, crises that are becoming more numerous, crises that are becoming more intense, we need to strengthen development cooperation, to strengthen humanitarian aid. the funds must therefore respond in a way that is proportionate to the global crises we are facing, and we must demand that if the european union wants to be a global player, if it wants to guarantee security in europe, it must step up its external action and its humanitarian aid. this is a clear message to face the negotiation with the council of the 2021 budget.
author. madam president, commissioner reynders, you know that i had the opportunity just yesterday to remind you that this institution - this european parliament - is the only directly elected institution in the union: it represents the citizens and therefore also expresses their concerns and fears in the face of what is proving to be the worst crisis in the history of the union. unexpectedly, when the citizens responded to the electoral call with an increase, at last, in participation, they were unaware that we were plunging into a crisis that has impacted on all our vital constants. but the european parliament, representing the citizens, has responded from the very beginning. we adopted a resolution in april, another in may and another in june on the impact that the emergency measures taken by member states in the face of the covid-19 pandemic and its ravages were having on what i believe is the most precious asset of the european experience: the free movement of people without restrictions at the union's internal borders. and in line with this concern, we are raising an oral question, which is equivalent to what in parliamentary law in many member states is considered to be an interpellation followed by a resolution. and here is the resolution: 23 recitals and 23 other paragraphs in which we demand that the member states and the commission live up to it, with a clear message: the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights matter; law matters, law matters. it's not only important all the time, but it's particularly important in times of crisis, because a crisis challenges us to be who we say we are; it can bring out the best in us, but it can also bring out the worst in us. and it's very important that at this point, when the whole of 2020 has been consumed by the response to the pandemic, that we start to draw some lessons, draw some conclusions. and the first is that the law is here to be taken seriously, and this conveys a message that has to do with the principles of necessity and proportionality but, above all, of temporary limitation, time frame, temporary limitation when measures are taken that may have an impact on the rule of law, democracy, the quality of democracy that we are building in the european union, its member states and which is a constitutive principle, article 2 of the european experience, and the fundamental rights of citizens. and this resolution fully reviews the impact that these emergency measures have had on the fundamental rights of citizens, first of all those enshrined in the charter. first, the free movement of persons. there is a schengen borders code; there is a directive on free movement, which has been ignored, if not scrapped, in the rush to adopt emergency measures. and the commission, as guardian of the treaties, is responsible for ensuring that member states respect the principles of proportionality and necessity in the restrictions imposed on free movement and for their temporary limitation, so that, as soon as possible, those restrictions are lifted. we also deal with the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter: freedom of expression - including the expression of dissent against some of the measures adopted by the member states - protest, assembly - right of assembly - right to demonstrate. there are certainly rights that are contingent on emergency measures, that are contingent on the need to safeguard public health, but they have not been extinguished or disappeared from the charter of fundamental rights. therefore, measures that impact on those rights must also be proportionate and limited in time. we are particularly concerned about the free flow of ideas, because if we deal in this european parliament with disinformation, we must deal even more when that toxic disinformation causes harm to people's health; disinformation aimed at confusing or questioning scientific knowledge and generating a state of fear and anxiety that is easily exploited by demagogues and populists, who fish in the river of the citizens' fear of the impact of the pandemic. it is therefore very important that the european union adopts the necessary strategies to defend itself against cyberattacks, against cybercrime, but also against disinformation. we are particularly concerned about the impact of the emergency measures on criminal law and prison law: disproportionate, repressive, disproportionate penalties, not based on the principles of penal law; and we are equally concerned about the impact on democracy and parliamentary and judicial control. those are the recommendations of the venice commission, those are the recommendations of the european court of human rights and the court of justice, which cannot be ignored or overruled, even in times of pandemics. we therefore call on the member states to draw lessons from this, to ensure that where emergency measures have been taken, they are consistent with their constitutional arrangements, and that where there is no prior provision, specific legislation is now adopted to enable us to respond; and on the commission to monitor and ensure continuously that the member states' responses are in line with the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking you for your commitment to the impact of the emergency measures taken in the context of the fight against covid-19 on democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. beyond its health and economic impact, the crisis that has hit us has created a whole series of challenges for our societies, including, as has just been recalled, for the fundamental values of the union. all member states have taken exceptional measures to protect public health, which have resulted in restrictions on certain fundamental rights and freedoms. most member states have declared a form of state of emergency or granted special emergency powers. this has been done either under constitutional provisions or under legislation on the protection of public health. changing or suspending the normal balance of power at national level can indeed pose particular problems for the rule of law. the crisis has proved to be a stress test for assessing the resilience of national systems in times of crisis. the commission has insisted from the outset that measures taken in response to the crisis must respect our fundamental values, as enshrined in the treaties. in particular, emergency measures must be limited to what is necessary, strictly proportionate, clearly limited in time and in accordance with constitutional guarantees and european and international standards. in addition, governments must ensure that measures are subject to regular parliamentary scrutiny, in full respect of democratic balances. these key requirements were reflected following the commission's proposal in the country-specific recommendations adopted by the council in the context of the european semester this year. the commission has been proactively monitoring the emergency measures taken in all the member states. the first annual report on the rule of law highlighted the need to maintain established checks and balances, including the role of parliaments in particular, when the measures taken affect fundamental rights. the resilience of the justice systems was also put to the test. a number of member states have taken measures to reduce the impact of the pandemic and were able to restart hearings applying distancing rules or videoconferencing techniques. the covid-19 pandemic has shown the importance of accelerating reforms to digitise the handling of cases by the judicial institutions, the exchange of information and documents with parties and lawyers, and continued and easy access to justice for all. we will continue to discuss with the member states about a real investment in the digitisation of the justice systems in all the member states. on data protection, the commission has already provided guidance and recommendations to member states, in particular on apps supporting the fight against the covid-19 pandemic. the european interoperability gateway for contact-tracing apps is now operational. it allows people to receive alerts and declare infections, also when abroad, using their home country's app. it ensures a high level of personal data protection and security. the commission has continued to monitor the situation and tried to receive a positive response from all member states to take part in such an interoperability gateway. it is not already the case with all the member states, but we are making progress. however, national data protection supervisory authorities and national courts and tribunals are at the forefront of this area, as they have the primary responsibility for ensuring compliance with the rules. these authorities are responsible for advising national legislators and for ensuring that all operators, public or private, comply with the law. they coordinate within the european data protection board and the commission has regular exchanges with the european data protection board. the crisis has also had an impact on democracy, electoral processes and freedom of expression. the covid-19 pandemic has indeed been accompanied by an unprecedented flood of false or inaccurate information that can create confusion and distrust, undermine an effective public health response and have a negative impact on democratic institutions. in june this year, the commission adopted a communication on disinformation during the pandemic and getting the facts right. the upcoming democracy action plan will address further challenges along three main pillars: electoral integrity, a free and plural media and combating disinformation. closely linked to this action plan, in december the commission will also issue its eu citizenship report which will present initiatives to promote the enjoyment by eu citizens of their civic rights under eu law. by the end of the year, the commission will also publish a new strategy on the implementation of the eu charter of fundamental rights and we will come with the first annual report on the new strategy next year before parliament. with regard to the right to free movement, a right cherished by many eu citizens, the principles of proportionality and non-discrimination must always be respected when restrictions are being considered. since march 2020, the commission has adopted a number of guidelines and communications, and following a commission proposal the council adopted on 13 october a recommendation on a coordinated approach to the restrictions on free movement in response to the covid-19 pandemic you know the common map that we now have published by the ecdc (european centre for disease prevention and control) every week and we also try to fight against all possible forms of discrimination also with a dialogue between the commission and the member states. just to give an example, in the past months we have seen since the end of august a possible discrimination in hungary with controls at the border except for travellers coming from the other three visegrad countries from the czech republic, slovakia and poland. i have had many contacts with the hungarian authorities and at the end of october they extended the measures on border control but without any exceptions now for the three visegrad countries. so the dialogue between the commission and the member states is also very important to try to avoid some kind of discrimination. thank you again for this opportunity to explain what we have been doing since the beginning of the crisis, since march, in the different fields and, of course, we will continue to do that. oversight by the judicial systems and oversight by the parliaments, and also by the european parliament is very important in the crisis and i look forward to this debate and to hearing your views on this important matter.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, governments have put in place extraordinary measures to contain the pandemic. in general, these measures have entailed restrictions on fundamental rights. the problem is not whether confinement or curfew is necessary - that is for scientists - but whether such limitations on individual freedom are adopted in accordance with the guarantees of the rule of law. but i wonder today whether this parliament, closed and remote, is in a position to remind other open parliaments of the importance of defending the democratic principle in the face of quarantines. yes, i am concerned that, under the umbrella of the health emergency, we ourselves are resigning from the democratic emergency. i am concerned that hundreds of our colleagues are not able to speak in this house because they do not live in the capital of their country and are not allowed to travel; that we have elite members who can speak here and second-class members; that we do not have interpretation in all the languages. i am concerned that our agendas are becoming more and more insufficient, our speaking times are getting shorter and that we are voting on the financial framework, the recovery plan or brexit without amendments or any real debate. i am concerned that all parliaments, including belgium's, are open and that the european parliament, instead of being the most transparent and guaranteeing its members safe working conditions, is the only one that chooses to close its doors and point the finger at its members as if they were to blame for the contagion. if we remain closed and distant when we are most needed, it is no wonder that the public will soon be asking what the european parliament is for.
on behalf of the renew group. – i would ask for a minimum respect for colleagues, please! madam president, i think most of us agree that measures have to be taken against the pandemic. there are very few people who deny that, and they are believing in conspiracies, but measures have to be necessary, proportionate and time—limited. we see huge differences across the member states and that’s actually very strange because, even if the measures are national, fundamental rights are european and they should apply equally to all european citizens. and, as this crisis is lasting longer than just a few weeks, we have to be very vigilant and we have to be very critical because, as ms barley also indicated, there are some governments who are very cynically exploiting this pandemic to expand their own authoritarian empires. yes, it’s the usual suspects, it’s hungary and it’s poland. yes, it’s again at the expense of women’s rights and lgbti people’s rights. on democracy and the functioning of parliament – because democratic scrutiny is more important than ever when governments get exceptional powers or the executives get exceptional powers and we all realise that there are practical and legal restrictions on our work – i very much concur with what has just been said. why is the european parliament the only parliament in europe and indeed the only parliament in brussels which is virtually shut down? and it has been done by a unilateral decision of the president of this house, there has not been a political decision, it’s not time—limited ... (applause)... and i think we give completely the wrong signal to the citizen. we should be here, and indeed we are not banned from coming here, but we are banned from physically participating in meetings, we are banned from meeting face to face, at the coffee machine too, because that’s part of parliamentary work as well. so finally, i think we need more harmonisation, also in the exit strategy from this situation, because even if the countries are hit in different ways by the pandemic, all eu citizens are entitled to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in the entire european union. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, it is true that in all countries the spread of the virus has forced restrictions on everyday life, especially on mobility and certain behaviours, but it is also true that all governments have suddenly been legitimised by the pandemic and, above all, by the fear of the population, and are exercising a power that under normal conditions would generally be considered abusive. and many governments have taken the opportunity to impose levels of arbitrariness and police and sanctioning coercion that are completely unjustified. some have gone further and used the pandemic to change the legal situation, to take serious administrative measures, without counting on opposition or, worse, to crush critics and punish disobedience, calling everyone deniers or conspiracy theorists. if this is to be expected in dictatorships like cuba and venezuela, where it has in fact happened, it is scandalous in democracies and countries of the european union. and we are not talking about the usual suspects - as we say here in hungary and poland - but about spain, where a socialist-communist government has imposed a six-month state of emergency which is against the constitution, since it is expressly limited in it to fifteen days, with mandatory parliamentary renewal. under the pretext of misinformation, many are trying to impose this censorship which, in spain, has already become practically official, and parliament has been closed in practice, and the total arbitrariness of the sánchez and iglesias governments is causing very serious damage to the democratic quality of spain. the european union must pay particular attention to what is happening in spain.
madam speaker, staying home during the pandemic has reduced the spread of covid, but for millions of women staying home is not synonymous with safety, but with violence. according to who data, threats and violence against women by their partners have increased by 60% in europe. as the united nations points out, violence against women is the most widespread human rights violation in the world, and the pandemic has only exacerbated it. on the other hand, countries such as poland, romania and slovakia are taking advantage of the pandemic to restrict women's sexual and reproductive rights. we must fight this injustice in the streets of warsaw, yes, but also by legislating in this chamber. we therefore urge a monitoring mechanism for democracy and the rule of law and fundamental rights that protects women's rights in particular, and also that the commission adds gender-based violence to the european list of crimes.
madam president, in exceptional times it is when the full exercise of this parliament as the guarantor of democracy is most necessary. madam president, covid has hit our health hard, with hundreds of thousands of deaths among our loved ones, and also our economy, with the loss of millions of jobs. but this pandemic has tested the resilience of our democracies and our institutions. the health crisis cannot be used as an excuse to weaken our rule of law and degrade our values. the exceptional nature of the pandemic should lead national governments, now more than ever, to strengthen, protect our fundamental rights and the balance of power; to more parliamentary scrutiny; to fight against disinformation by guaranteeing freedom of expression, the right to information and media pluralism, and not the other way around. it is worrying to see governments in established democracies attempting to undermine judicial independence, taking decisions that may limit or censor the right to information, or using exceptional measures to avoid parliamentary scrutiny. ladies and gentlemen, this is what is happening today within the union. europe cannot go back to the dark truth committees. europe must stand firm in defence of freedom and the rule of law, and we must defeat the virus together, without our democracies retreating. we are not just playing with european funds for health, economic and social recovery. we are risking the health and quality of democracy.
mr president, health is one of the subjects that most concern citizens, according to the eurobarometer survey, and the right to health protection is also enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, in article 35. i am glad to see that the budget line for this programme has tripled and we are going to reach eur 5.1 billion. we have five health challenges: overcoming inequalities, improving crisis preparedness, strengthening union industry by innovating and supporting business competitiveness, addressing environmental challenges related to health and pharmaceutical substances and products, and leading the digital transformation of health systems. i would ask for support for my group's amendments which call for stress tests to be carried out on health systems, specifically assessing the capacity of health institutions to cope with scenarios such as the current high-pressure situation. and finally, i would appeal to the european commission because we need a system or a unit for the detection, control and monitoring of zoonotic processes with sufficient resources to ensure that situations such as the current one or possible new threats, such as the mink in denmark, are effectively controlled.
madam president, first of all i would like to take this opportunity to say that i do not share president sassoli's decision to have virtually closed down the european parliament and to have limited the activity of this very important institution to the minimum. at a time when europe is experiencing a terrible health, social and economic crisis, it needs its institutions to be working on time. we're here today to talk about the green deal, how to finance the green deal. it is the great european challenge, the great commission project and, of course, it has the support of the european parliament. but i would ask you not to lose sight of what is happening in europe right now, not to lose sight of the fact that there are thousands of businessmen having to close their businesses, thousands of european citizens losing their jobs; that the hunger lines are getting longer every day in europe. so the green deal has to serve the first and foremost priority, which is job creation. the green deal cannot be a project to satisfy the ideologies of certain political parties. we must create a competitive europe, a europe that is committed to innovation, a europe that is committed to the private sector; we must be committed to a europe that works to provide solutions to real problems. the green deal must be a reality, as long as it creates jobs, makes us more competitive and makes us stronger. and if we have that in mind, it will be a good thing for europe, and if not, the citizens will soon be holding us to account.
(start of intervention off microphone) ...china has crippled the economies of the whole world, except their own, of course. and the tragedy that is being thrown at us has biblical dimensions, and here we are wrestling with green agreements, with ecological transitions, with mythical climate emergencies and a whole series of apocalyptic prophecies about the end of the world. they don't realize that everything has changed with this pandemic. they keep pretending that it's a priority to change the world, to make an ideological construct. this huge exercise, this colossal social engineering that they want to do with the green deal was already absurd before and what it did was to reduce europe's competitiveness without fixing any of the environmental problems, but what we see now is that throughout europe - and in spain in particular we are seeing it - the economy is sinking. there are streets full of signs of closing shops, people are looking for food in containers, there are hunger lines that are growing in spain every day, and we are still there with this social engineering, looking for formulas that have their origin in what is the permanent ideological pressure, to which a majority bows. please, let's be smart, let's have some common sense, let's get to the urgency, which is the social and economic emergency that we have right now, let's focus on people's lives and not on ideological, climate and ecorradical birds.
mr president, commissioner, i am pleased that we have a debate in this house this afternoon on such an important subject as the sustainability of the single market, a subject which certainly needs to be topical in a situation where the pandemic has shown that we have to change our consumption habits and our ways of relating to each other. so today it is fundamental where we produce and where and how we consume. so from the point of view of industries, it is important that the european union takes action on where we are going to produce and how we are going to be able to increase sustainability throughout the value chain, from the design to the distribution of products. and, in relation to consumers, i think it is important to give a figure, and that is that in the last eurobarometer, in a survey that has been carried out, more than 77 per cent of europeans are willing to reuse their products and try to fix them and usually do so. this should make us think that european culture, european citizens are demanding a better way of consuming, a more sustainable way of consuming. and as the european parliament, together with the various institutions, we must be able to give an answer to these citizens. the socialist group therefore believes that it is important to ban everything that has to do with the planned obsolescence of products. it is important that consumers are not misled. it is also important that there be a labelling that informs about the durability and how to resolve a defect of any type of product. and finally, also - and i don't want to miss this - it is important that the public administration takes note, that public procurement is much more social and more sustainable.
the european commission published the new consumer agenda on 13 november, which aims to put consumers at the centre of the digital and ecological transitions as the driving force behind the recovery from this crisis. the covid-19 crisis has brought to light the vulnerability of consumers to counterfeit products, cancellation of trips, online scams, etc. this agenda takes note of the situations that have occurred during this pandemic and sets out the roadmap to be followed during the next five years. consumption accounts for 50% of europe's gdp, so it is essential to safeguard consumers and to try to give them a high level of protection. the new consumer agenda covers five key areas. these are: green transition, digital transformation, respect for consumer rights, protection of the needs of vulnerable consumers and international cooperation. with the rise of electronic commerce, we must protect citizens who shop online. the commission therefore plans to develop an action plan with china in 2021 to improve the safety of products sold online.
the european commission published the new consumer agenda on 13 november, which aims to put consumers at the centre of the digital and ecological transitions as the driving force behind the recovery from this crisis. the covid-19 crisis has brought to light the vulnerability of consumers to counterfeit products, cancellation of trips, online scams, etc. this agenda takes note of the situations that have occurred during this pandemic and sets out the roadmap to be followed during the next five years. consumption accounts for 50% of europe's gdp, so it is essential to safeguard consumers and to try to give them a high level of protection. the new consumer agenda covers five key areas. these are: green transition, digital transformation, respect for consumer rights, protection of the needs of vulnerable consumers and international cooperation. with the rise of electronic commerce, we must protect citizens who shop online. the commission therefore plans to develop an action plan with china in 2021 to improve the safety of products sold online.
in writing. in the midst of the covid-19 crisis, europe is once again looking to industry as a driver of change, competitiveness and quality employment. europe is facing the transformation towards industry 4.0 at a time of change and must demonstrate that it is capable of leading not only the green and digital transitions, but also to strive for technological leadership and open strategic autonomy. only through a new industrial strategy, which respects the importance of smes, innovation centres and universities, can we build a leading european economy that is capable of strengthening supply chains, relocating value chains to europe and increasing security of supply of strategic raw materials. only through public-private partnerships will we be able to create innovation ecosystems that are anchored in the competitive advantages of each of europe's regions. we need to move towards a circular economy, we need to invest in alternative energy sources - such as hydrogen - to achieve the climate targets we have set for ourselves, and we also need to invest in skills and education to ensure that all europeans are prepared to face the major change that this new industrial strategy will bring.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the treaty on european union states that the union is based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. but the report we are discussing today shows that fundamental rights cannot be guaranteed in europe. the text warns of the increasing levels of poverty and exclusion, of attacks on the rights and lives of women, of hate speech against minorities, and reminds us of our obligation to respect the rights of those who come to europe in search of refuge or a more dignified life. the report also highlights democratic setbacks which concern us. it denounces the violation of basic rights such as freedom of expression and assembly, and questions the separation of powers and the judicial independence of the member states. we are, or we could be, comfortable with this text, but at the same time we are concerned about important aspects. on the one hand, the major groups continue to block any mention of the member states in this report, and, on the other hand, the chairman of the libe committee, at the request of some parties, has removed the rapporteur's explanatory statement, which referred indirectly to police violence in catalonia and the imprisonment of catalan leaders, a decision which was taken overnight and for domestic policy reasons. a statement of reasons which reflected what has already been denounced by the united nations working group on arbitrary detention, the council of europe's commissioner for human rights and amnesty international, among others. we regret that, at the very moment when we are debating a report on fundamental rights, we have to condemn an act of censorship and an exercise of political cynicism such as this within the european parliament. after all, it may be true that it is not necessary to name any states: they alone are mentioned. i therefore ask the president of parliament to review what has happened and to protect the freedom of political expression of members of the european parliament in the exercise of their mandate. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the peoples of the world are respected, and that the rights of the peoples of the world are respected. the european union of the 21st century must actively work to promote solutions based on peace, dialogue and democracy.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, after reading this magnificent report, anyone who could ask how fundamental rights are doing in europe, and do so honestly, and answer honestly, should admit that they are losing. we know where the origin is: austerity policies; but it is also in the rise of the far right, and not only from where they govern, but also here, whenever they manage to place their political agenda. there is nothing more to see than immigration policy. we have to look at lesbos, the balkan frontier, the mediterranean, the canary islands, different places, the same effects and consequences: human suffering, violation of rights. perhaps we should look at ourselves as we discuss this report: do you not think that the eu should be the guarantor of these rights? i feel that we are not acting as we should, that we are even buying into the far-right delusion of defending the european way of life. remember that. so we started by buying into the story of an avalanche that doesn't exist, because you know - as i do - that the numbers disprove that claim. and we know this because the international organization for migration tells us that every year fewer migrants arrive in europe, and they know -- like me -- that lesbos and the canaries are the consequence of the blockade policy, of keeping them trapped in the places of arrival, which is also unfair, moreover, to the host populations, like the canarian population, because very often they are overwhelmed after years of cuts. we also know, because it is documented by a journalistic investigation, that frontex is involved in hot returns; i remind you: it is an illegal action that contravenes international law and human rights. that is why we have two choices in this report: to amend it, to put it in a drawer and thereby silence our consciences, or to see it as an opportunity to offer solutions. these include legal and safe ways of ending the mafia: solidarity between eu countries, compliance with international law, a civil public body for rescue at sea and financial resources for the places of reception.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very easy to understand the situation of fundamental rights in europe. on the one hand, you invent pseudo-rights with which to destroy the unity of peoples through savage immigration and to make their identities disappear through multiculturalist and lgbt witchcraft. on the other hand, there are the europeans, who have lost the right to go to church without risking being strangled, who have lost the right to claim a family with a father and mother because they are persecuted by you in the name of the god of gender, who have lost the right to health and are seized by covid because of the cuts to public health that you have called for in these years, who have lost the right to work because of those relocations and unfair competition that you have encouraged in the name of the god of the market. so while under the pretext of rights you subject the europeans to your ideologies and deprive them of their right to dissent, you condemn them to poverty, social exclusion and the dictatorship of a single thought by your perverse policies. so here's your plan: deceiving europeans with the mirage of false rights to prevent them from finding out what you are stealing from them: well-being, identity and freedom.
mr president, it is a pity, but not a surprise, that the report on fundamental rights is once again dominated by left-wing ideology, which is not representative of europe, and by all the fashionable litanies. again, countries like hungary or poland or bulgaria are being singled out for rights violations when, in fact, they are being attacked for not implementing social democratic policies that their electorates do not want. we are asking for rights for illegal immigrants when we should be asking for rights for europeans who are being overrun by immigration, europeans who have been deprived of their right to secure and respected borders. but it is a scandal that they forget the worst dismantling of the democratic state in the history of the european union, which is taking place in spain, and not because of what that coup plotter who has intervened before says. under the socialist-communist government, undemocratic aberrations occur which, of course, are hidden here and which we all regret. what is happening in spain at the moment is a reason to think about article 7, and not about the persecution that has been mounted against the two countries... (inaudible words).
mr president, before i go into the substance of the report, i would like to turn for a moment to two colleagues who have spoken before, mr annemans and mr dzhambazki, who do not stop talking about the evils of federalism in this house. but i would like to say that federalism has not caused any war in europe, and nationalisms, two world wars, so far. keep that in mind. turning to the report, as has been said - and i share the views of my colleagues - the european elections were a good one, participation increased, participation of young people increased, the pro-european forces - i would also remind you - won the elections by a large margin, by 80%, and now the question is how we can improve the european elections in the future, because there is much to be improved. one of the elements that can - which can - which is what the report says - contribute to making transnational democracy in europe more effective is transnational lists. we therefore support the report in its entirety, because we want to open up this debate in parliament and at the conference on the future of europe.
mr president, today we are discussing a report on the last european elections, and it mentions important issues such as transnational lists, the reform of the european electoral law or gender equality, but unfortunately the report does not include any mention of the violation of the political rights of the elected member of the european parliament oriol junqueras or the three empty seats that this house had for months. there is no mention of the judgment of the court of justice of the european union, which ratified the quality of deputy of oriol junqueras, nor of his right to parliamentary immunity. nor is there any mention of the irregularities of the spanish state, which still keeps him in prison. how is it that a report on the european elections does not mention that a member, with all his rights, was not allowed to enter this house? this circumvention is aggravated by the decision of the president of parliament to declare inadmissible a part of the amendment referring to oriol junqueras. i ask the president of parliament to rectify this decision. ladies and gentlemen, looking the other way is doing a disservice to european democracy.
mr president, i am afraid that the majority have not understood anything about brexit and that the social democratic arrogance is blind once again. it is not true that europeans are applauding the european union again, and that increase in votes has come because the vote has gone to parties that defend nations. the social democratic majority, and i include those who are getting votes from the right in their own country to do leftist politics here, want a mega-state that will do away with nations and thus the only real democratic control. but the nations refuse to disappear. that's why the parties that defend the nation are growing steadily and the parties that want to dissolve it are falling - the majority parties, first of all. despite the colossal propaganda, one third of europeans already vote for nationalists. in 2024, we'll be many more. that's why the rush to create the mega-state through the back door without consulting the people, who would tell them no, as it has done in the past.
mr president, commissioner, we are debating in this house, in this house, a resolution which seeks to define the broad lines for this house in the future review of the european union's trade policy announced by the commission. you yourself announced that one of the objectives of this review was to strengthen trade and investment relations with strategic partners on the basis of free and fair multilateral trade based on reciprocal rules. that sounds very good, but the truth is that so far the signals that this commission has sent are in the opposite direction. i'll explain it to you. this was the geopolitical commission - so said president von der leyen - but so far the only initiative of its own has been to paralyse the largest trade and political association agreement ever signed by the european union, which is the european union-mercosur agreement. this is based on previous doubts about the implementation of some of the agreements reached. i'll see you then. but at the same time you have negotiated agreements with china on geographical indications, a country which systematically violates human rights. and in this situation the question is: what are the specific requirements that the european union, the commission, is going to set for its trading partners? or will he be weak with the strong and strong with the weak? i think we all want to move towards a trade policy based on reciprocal but equal standards for all, because otherwise this commission will send a very negative message, that it is not a reliable partner, that it is not a partner that lives up to its commitments. and this commission must live up to its commitments and be able to fulfil its objectives, its commitments, for the benefit of all the citizens of the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, well, mr borrell, here we are in what we might call the usual debate on turkey. if i may be allowed the irony, we could almost create a section in each plenary on turkish foreign policy, and the turkish government, in fact, makes it very easy for us, because by acting as it does it always gives us reasons to have on the agenda its activity, which we sometimes call 'assertive' and i think we could start calling 'aggressive' without any further difficulty. because they're premeditated and unnecessary actions. furthermore, actions that are part of an electoral campaign, which is surely the worst way to put something on the public agenda, and which, in this case - i would like to remind you of something different - there is no attempt to justify. in turkey's positions on the eastern mediterranean there is some attempt to justify this. in this case, it is a flagrant violation of international law, without the slightest narrative to try to say 'we are right', but it is only a matter of supporting 'as my colleague mr gahler said' this very dangerous two-state solution that nobody has ever put on the international arena until now. and i believe that this policy of the past, as mr gahler said, must be answered by the european union. contrary to what mr gahler said, i would like to concentrate on varosha. because the problem is that the tidal wave of relations with turkey ultimately leads us not to isolate each issue. i think that varosha, as mr borrell said, deserves to be on our agenda in its own right, without trying to be another of the many conflicting issues mentioned by mr gahler. i would therefore ask my colleagues to support a very essential agreement in the resolution we will be voting on tomorrow, if i am not mistaken, in which we of course condemn this activity, call for a reversal of the situation and recall, mr borrell, the pending of possible sanctions, and that the only way to avoid sanctions, as the council has said, is to change our attitude completely and return, as we all propose, to the framework of solutions to the cyprus problem in the framework of the relevant un resolutions you have cited.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, mr borrell, i will be frank with you: we do not understand this joy over peace agreements between the israeli regime and the feudal monarchies of the gulf, countries that were not at war with each other. i have to agree with mr lópez-istúriz on this. we don't celebrate this. if the parties to these agreements are anything to go by, it is their disregard for human rights and a warmongering policy, which is resulting in an escalation of the arms trade. we are talking about countries that bomb yemen or libya and that are allied with the one who is most responsible for the destruction of the palestinian people and the war in the region. curious peace agreements that are sold to us as an improvement for the palestinian people, as a brake on the decision of trump and netanyahu to annex to israel a significant part of the west bank, but the reality is otherwise. the palestinian society, which has not been consulted but is affected, has opposed agreements which bury any aspiration to a state of their own and therefore the burying of the two-state solution. the annexation continues unabated every day. this year has seen the historic record of new settlements, irreversibly disconnecting areas such as jerusalem and bethlehem. and to all this, add the extortion of sudan, which, to get off the us list of countries financing terrorism, will have to pay the united states 335 million dollars and sign this shameful agreement with israel. mr borrell, in the face of this diplomatic offensive, it is necessary to defend the european union's position with courage, by recognising the palestinian state, by urging the member states to do the same, by increasing funding for unrwa - a vital agency for palestinian refugees, which trump and netanyahu are trying to end - and by promoting the international peace conference at the united nations.
madam president, i also thank the high representative for his presence and for his statement, which the socialist group supports, and i myself do. i think there is - and many members have also said so - a certain ambivalence about the signing of these agreements. on the one hand, it is positive that two arab states, traditional enemies of the state of israel, have established relations with the jewish state. at the same time, it objectively weakens the palestinian cause and the two-state solution, because there was clearly the arab initiative, which, as you will recall, linked the recognition of israel to the two-state solution and to the resolution of the palestinian-israeli conflict. the european union must therefore make an extra effort - as has been said - we need a european initiative for peace in the middle east, with the support of the americans, perhaps a second peace conference in madrid, to reach the two-state solution as soon as possible.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the conflict, but that it should be involved in the peace process. in the last decade, according to international organizations, about a thousand journalists have been murdered. we're not even talking about the ones who've been arrested, the ones who've been assaulted, a little bit all over the world. this is a fundamental issue for democracy itself and it is a question of impunity that has to end. only one in 10 crimes against journalists goes to trial, and it's democracy itself that's at stake. it is not just a violation of fundamental rights, it is not just an attack on life itself, it is not just an attack on freedom of the press or freedom of expression. we are talking about a reality that prevents all of us from having access to the very foundations of what our society is. it's not just the rest of the world. we are seeing this in the european union itself. while this european parliament was investigating crimes of corruption, fraud, tax evasion, tax avoidance, money laundering, we witnessed the murder of daphne caruana galizia, the precise circumstances and consequences of which have yet to be fully understood. we have also witnessed in this parliament, while we were working on these crimes, the murder of jan kuciak. that is why, commissioner, we must fight against impunity and not just make statements to the rest of the world, but also realize that within the european union there is much to be done and we also continue to attack democracy within the european territory itself.
madam president, on the occasion of the recent international day to end impunity for crimes against journalists, it is necessary to remember the 1 628 media workers and journalists who have been killed over the last twenty years simply for exercising their right to freedom of the press. according to the un, in nine out of ten cases the guilty are not prosecuted, thus undermining their societies by the impunity that covers up serious human rights abuses, corruption and crimes. independent journalism that keeps citizens informed and governors accountable is as crucial to a strong democracy as free and fair elections themselves. freedom of opinion is one of the inalienable values on which the european union is founded, enshrined in article 11 of its charter of fundamental rights. in addition, the protection of freedom of expression and media pluralism are among the priorities of the union and its member states in external relations. however, it is imperative to remain vigilant, both outside and within our borders, where these crimes also go unpunished. the pandemic presents challenges to fundamental rights around the world. it is clear that we must not justify limits on democracy with orwellian measures such as truth ministries, anti-hate laws or the promotion of censorship within our own continent or anywhere else. what will the commission do to prevent this?
madam president, commissioner, dear didier, i would like to propose a round-the-world trip on the subject of the lack of freedom of the press. in latin america, there has been a terrible increase in the repression of journalists who criticize both government corruption and inequitable social and environmental policies. the asia pacific region is the most dangerous region for journalists and bloggers. we had the opportunity, in the committee on human rights, to welcome mrs ressa, the founder of the rappler news site in the philippines, who was accused of cyber-defamation, just for having disseminated information. in vietnam, the situation is also not very clear. blogger nguyen trung and freelance journalist pham dung were arrested just as we ratified the eu-vietnam trade agreement. in sub-saharan africa, freedom of expression is under attack again, as in nigeria, where there have been 115 cases of abuse against journalists this year. the situation in the middle east, with the murder of khashoggi, or in north africa, with the arrest of khaled drareni in algeria, is not very clear, nor is it very encouraging. in bangladesh, several journalists and bloggers, such as shahidul alam, have been jailed and tortured under the draconian digital security act of 2018. i could continue this express world tour by stopping in europe, for example, where, as has already been said, the situation is not very good either. so, commissioner, violence against journalists is not only an attack on the physical and moral integrity of those who inform us, it is also an attack on the very foundations of our democracy and the rule of law. and so i'm not asking what we're doing to protect journalists, but how we're using our tools to make sure that these situations can no longer continue in countries with which we have ongoing dialogues.
madam president, journalists are seekers of truth and guardians of our most valued freedom of expression. their work worldwide is a major disturbance and irritation to those rejecting democratic principles of openness and transparency. freedom of opinion, expression and access to information constitute an essential part of the universal human rights index, which determines the quality of democracy worldwide. the extent and tendencies of crimes to silence journalists and to limit media freedom around the world is alarming and increasing. examples of crimes committed against journalists are disturbing – intimidation and harassment, as constantly faced by journalists in venezuela and russia; online harassment, as fought by pakistani women journalists; threats to family as incurred by iranian journalists working abroad; exile and expulsion as experienced by a congolese journalist, gaël mpoyo; abduction, as of dozens of journalists currently held hostage in syria; detention and imprisonment, like in china, which is the world’s biggest captor of journalists; physical attacks and torture like that suffered by a bolivian journalist, rene guarachi; and barbarian killing as with jamal khashoggi, a critic of the saudi arabian government. we need to ensure the safety of journalists by deterring and holding the perpetrators to account. we need to establish an effective framework by adopting the eu magnitsky act.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, you cannot come here and raise one hand in favour of press freedom while the other hand is handing out billions of euros in subsidies to media that support governments. do you know what this is? these are the front pages of the main media in my country, paid by the government, on may 25, 2020, where it was said that "we come out stronger". today spain, with over fifty thousand dead, has a permanent and illegal state of alarm and the streets of spain are desolate. it was the government that violated the freedom of the press by paying millions and leaving the citizens who want free and truthful information helpless. the truly free media does not receive subsidies, nor should those private fact-checking agencies that are in the service of power. if you want freedom of the press, defend the independent professionals, precisely from that subsidized press, and precisely from the fact-checking agencies that then impose censorship, blocks, through their big tech hubs. finally, commissioner, as you know, a truth committee has been set up in spain. how can freedom of the press be guaranteed when the government itself says what is true and what is false?
madam president, our union is not a trade union. our union is based on fundamental values that we share. mr bay, mrs szydło, our colleagues on the extreme right of this house tell us that they are not in the treaties. i read to you article 2, which reads: 'the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights'. these are our values, and these are the values we're fighting for. mr kaczyński and mr orbán have decided that this value issue is not for them. they have been attacking freedom of the press and the independence of the judiciary and attacking the rights of minorities for years. i would say to our colleagues who say that this is an invasion of their freedoms that when they attack judicial independence, when they use majorities to crush minorities by appointing judges they are violating the treaties of the european union. they're laughing at us. they think we're merchants and we'll never stop them. they think that europe is an atm machine that is there to give them money without conditions. well, this is over. this is as far as we've gotten. this parliament has been trying for years to put in place a rule of law mechanism. we have finally reached an agreement with the governments to put this mechanism into operation so that european money is not used to build authoritarian and corrupt regimes. hungary and poland's response is to block a recovery fund that is essential for our citizens to get through this terrible pandemic. mr kaczyński and mr orbán, i will make this clear: european money will not be used to finance corruption, attacks on press freedom or attacks on the independence of the judiciary. if the recovery mechanism is essential and the hungarian and polish veto is unacceptable, what is left? i believe that the solution has been put on the table by my colleague guy verhofstadt, and i invite the council - which is sadly absent today - to consider it. the other 25 countries must start a dialogue as soon as possible to put in place a mechanism for enhanced cooperation that will put an end to blackmail and allow recovery from this pandemic. we can't be any more late.
today, on the international day for the elimination of violence against women, i say to you: you are not alone. madam president, the covid-19 pandemic continues to strike us all, exposing us to our vulnerability and teaching us that acting together, we are stronger and more effective. we therefore support the union's leadership in research and vaccine procurement, which is a source of hope and a future for all. we have a responsibility to save lives, to protect the health of all, to boost our economy's growth and to guarantee the jobs of millions of europeans. we must therefore urgently boost european funds and make ambitious and necessary national reforms. populist policies that only seek to satisfy partisan desires are not valid here. the council must prevent the aid from being stopped. we cannot wait any longer, we are suffering the greatest crisis in the last seventy years. we must act and we must do so by guaranteeing the rule of law and not allowing any attack on fundamental rights. the rule of law and economic recovery are paths that must be taken together, in the union and in the 27 member states, and with the same intensity we must tackle other challenges we face in europe today. we have again suffered the merciless violence of terrorism. so we need to continue to work together, from the firmness and strength of the rule of law, to win this battle. we're playing our values. the uncertainty caused by the prospect of a no-deal brexit requires greater unity among member states. the images we are seeing in the canary islands are unacceptable. we must respond to the ongoing drama of immigration with a genuine common immigration policy for the whole of the european union. what happens in spain happens in europe. we hope that the news from the council meeting will be one: that europe is more united than ever and that it is giving a coordinated response to all the challenges ahead. the citizens of europe need us and we cannot fail them.
in writing. the spanish socialist delegation supports the parliament's position on the need for a legislative instrument linking access to european funds with the defence of the rule of law, and therefore asks the council to confirm, without amendments, the agreement reached on 10 november 2020. it should be noted that, if the veto of hungary and poland persists, it would be possible to approve the recovery plan by qualified majority on the basis of article 122 tfeu and supported by additional national guarantees. in addition, the recovery and resilience mechanism and the 2021 budget could also be adopted by qualified majority in accordance with article 310 (4) tfeu. on brexit, we hope for an agreement in which we cannot give up a reliable and stable system of governance, rules of competition that protect our internal market between both parties and an agreement that safeguards the interests of our fishing industry. as regards the covid-19 pandemic, we need to move forward with the creation of a european health union and ensure a transparent plan for the purchase and distribution of vaccines.
in writing. the most relevant debates were the response to the covid-19 pandemic, climate change, the fight against terrorism and violent extremism, the situation in the eastern mediterranean and relations with turkey, the eu's relations with the countries of the southern neighbourhood, the eu's trade policy. the main issues for the socialists are brexit, the negotiation of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework (mfp) and own resources. the spanish delegation supports parliament's position on the need for a legislative instrument linking the budget to the defence of the rule of law and therefore calls on the council to confirm the agreement reached without changing it. the negotiations on the european recovery fund are of paramount importance to us and we hope to reach an agreement as soon as possible. we also expect an agreement on our future relationship with the united kingdom, and we cannot give up a reliable and stable system of governance, competition rules that protect our internal market and an agreement that safeguards the interests of our fishing industry. and to manage the covid situation we need to move forward in creating a european health union and ensure a transparent plan for vaccine procurement and distribution.
in writing. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament considers it necessary for the six countries that have not yet done so (bulgaria, the czech republic, hungary, latvia, lithuania and slovakia) to ratify the istanbul convention, and for all eu member states to implement it effectively. the delegation supports the commission's declaration without resolution, which coincides with the international day for the elimination of gender-based violence, as the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the istanbul convention, is the international reference. according to the eu agency for fundamental rights survey (2014), 1 in 3 women in the eu has experienced physical and/or sexual violence since the age of 15. 55 percent of women have faced one or more forms of sexual harassment and 1 in 20 has been raped. the lockdowns have resulted in an increase in gender-based violence cases.
in writing. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament considers it necessary for the six countries that have not yet done so (bulgaria, the czech republic, hungary, latvia, lithuania and slovakia) to ratify the istanbul convention, and for all eu member states to implement it effectively. the delegation supports the commission's declaration without resolution, which coincides with the international day for the elimination of gender-based violence, as the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the istanbul convention, is the international reference. according to the eu agency for fundamental rights survey (2014), 1 in 3 women in the eu has experienced physical and/or sexual violence since the age of 15. 55 percent of women have faced one or more forms of sexual harassment and 1 in 20 has been raped. the lockdowns have resulted in an increase in gender-based violence cases.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i am glad that we are discussing the interference of the far right in the electoral processes in europe. it is urgent that we denounce it and take it seriously. the orbán government, the great protege of the berlusconi and casado parties, has managed to set up a client network in the balkans, diverting more than five million euros, and the consequences are already visible. slovenia is now acting as orbán's satellite by closing borders and allying itself with the libertarian governments of poland and hungary in blocking recovery funds, a blockade that is leaving millions of european workers, especially those in the south, in the lurch. and they do this because they are required to respect the rule of law. i ask the spanish ppe members: will you continue to protect the corrupt far right in hungary by preventing your group from expelling it? orbán's is not the only interference: in spain we are experiencing the illegal financing of vox, which received almost one million euros from an iranian terrorist group. as i was saying, it is good that we have this debate, but what measures are going to be taken? mrs jourová, we need more transparency and to ensure that those who endanger our democracy do not receive a single euro of public money.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, this is not a debate about abortion rights in poland, it is a debate about whether we are going to allow a decades-long setback in women's rights in the european union. thirty years ago abortion was legal and accessible in poland, in 1993 it was severely restricted and a month ago the constitutional court eliminated the presumption of foetal malformation, which accounts for 97% of legal abortions in the country. this ruling is the polish government's latest attack on the rule of law. yes, yes, the government, which is the one who appointed these judges, in case anyone doubted the need to link every euro of community funds with the guarantee of fundamental rights. let's be clear: banning abortion is a form of torture; forcing women to use pills and other methods clandestinely and without medical support is a form of torture; forcing women to travel to other countries in order to terminate their pregnancies is a form of torture. in 2015 the government tried to ban abortion with the support of the catholic church and ultra-conservative organizations like ordo iuris, but it ran into a tide of women in black. this year, taking advantage of the pandemic, he has stepped on the accelerator of his anti-rights agenda and women have taken to the streets again. i said at the beginning that this debate is not a debate on the right to abortion in poland: in spain, for example, the popular party tried to overturn the abortion law in the constitutional court. your appeal is still in a drawer, but the rapporteur is a judge with ties to opus dei, so we can still go back. the thunderbolt that polish women wear as a symbol warns us of a danger: after poland, the far right will come for each and every one of us.
in writing. eu leaders met to discuss the first strategy for the equality of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, non-binary, intersex and queer (lgbtiq) people, presented by the commission on 12 november. the strategy sets out a series of specific actions around the following four priorities: 1) fighting discrimination; 2) ensuring security, by extending the eu's list of 'crimes' to include hate crimes, and incitement to hatred against lgbtiq persons; 3) protecting the rights of rainbow families through a legislative initiative to support the mutual recognition of same-sex unions within member states; 4) promoting lgbtiq equality under the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndci), the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) and the asylum and migration fund. i support this strategy with the aim of member states introducing and developing their own lgbtiq equality action plans, and ensuring better protection of lgbtiq people against discrimination.
in writing. eu leaders met to discuss the first strategy for the equality of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, non-binary, intersex and queer (lgbtiq) people, presented by the commission on 12 november. the strategy sets out a series of specific actions around the following four priorities: 1) fighting discrimination; 2) ensuring security, by extending the eu's list of 'crimes' to include hate crimes, and incitement to hatred against lgbtiq persons; 3) protecting the rights of rainbow families through a legislative initiative to support the mutual recognition of same-sex unions within member states; 4) promoting lgbtiq equality under the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndci), the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) and the asylum and migration fund. i support this strategy with the aim of member states introducing and developing their own lgbtiq equality action plans, and ensuring better protection of lgbtiq people against discrimination.
in writing. eu leaders met to discuss the first strategy for the equality of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, non-binary, intersex and queer (lgbtiq) people, presented by the commission on 12 november. the strategy sets out a series of specific actions around the following four priorities: 1) fighting discrimination; 2) ensuring security, by extending the eu's list of 'crimes' to include hate crimes, and incitement to hatred against lgbtiq persons; 3) protecting the rights of rainbow families through a legislative initiative to support the mutual recognition of same-sex unions within member states; 4) promoting lgbtiq equality under the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndci), the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) and the asylum and migration fund. i support this strategy with the aim of member states introducing and developing their own lgbtiq equality action plans, and ensuring better protection of lgbtiq people against discrimination.
in writing. eu leaders met to discuss the first strategy for the equality of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, non-binary, intersex and queer (lgbtiq) people, presented by the commission on 12 november. the strategy sets out a series of specific actions around the following four priorities: 1) fighting discrimination; 2) ensuring security, by extending the eu's list of 'crimes' to include hate crimes, and incitement to hatred against lgbtiq persons; 3) protecting the rights of rainbow families through a legislative initiative to support the mutual recognition of same-sex unions within member states; 4) promoting lgbtiq equality under the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndci), the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) and the asylum and migration fund. i support this strategy with the aim of member states introducing and developing their own lgbtiq equality action plans, and ensuring better protection of lgbtiq people against discrimination.
in writing. the last week of november marks a breakthrough in the work of the european parliament on human rights. for the first time, the commission has put forward a comprehensive strategy for equality for lgbt+ people. there is no doubt that these aspirations are directly derived from the eu's values - that all people must be equal, enjoy the right to live in harmony with themselves and cannot be discriminated against on the grounds of gender, sexual orientation, religion, origin or disability. it should therefore not be surprising that parliament is reacting at a time when lgbt+ free zones are being established in some member states and non-heterosexual teenagers are taking their own lives due to the intolerance of politicians and state media, which directly affects public attitudes. the objectives of the strategy are to combat discrimination, ensure safety and build an inclusive lgbt+ society, and promote lgbt+ equality around the world. we have a lot of work to do. in poland, for example, there is no category of hate crime based on sexual orientation, and education does not provide for the promotion of non-discrimination. ilga research shows that 70% of lgbt+ teens suffer from depression and suicidal thoughts. i believe that the strategy will be the beginning of building a common policy guaranteeing fundamental rights for all across the european union, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity.
in writing. it is shocking that the discrimination experienced by lgbtq people has increased in recent years in europe. we must do everything we can to ensure that no european is faced with fear and discrimination in their daily lives, whether in the workplace, on the streets or online. i would like to thank the commission for its new strategy on lgbtq. it is time that we safeguarded the right of all people to be free from discrimination. the inclusion of all hate speech and all hate crimes, including rainbow people, in the list of crimes established by the eu is a good thing. hate crimes and hate speech are on the rise and we need to put a stop to it. we must ensure that lgbtq people receive good, reliable, expert and confidential health care in every member state. we must also ensure that rights established in another country, such as custody and marriage, are recognised in each member state in cross-border situations, otherwise this is an obstacle to free movement.
in writing. the strategy raises a number of concerns. issues relating to social policy, including action to combat inequalities, social exclusion and discrimination, fall within the competences shared between the european union and the member states (articles 4 and 7 tfeu) and, therefore, the union is obliged to respect the principle of subsidiarity in its action in this area. issues of morals, sexual morality, family structure, parent-child relationships, and the extent of government interference in the intimate lives of citizens are deeply rooted in the cultures of the eu member states and vary widely. the strategy presented here aims directly at the uniformity of member states' cultures in terms of understanding of basic concepts such as gender or social institutions such as the family. in this respect, it infringes article 167 tfeu. there is no possibility, in accordance with the treaties, for the commission or parliament to arbitrarily interfere with the content of teaching, including the use of the term 'family' in the context of same-sex relationships. in accordance with article 167 (1) tfeu, the union is to respect the diversity of the cultures of the member states, while at the same time emphasising their common cultural heritage of judeo-christian origin. in accordance with article 167 (4) tfeu, the european union is under an obligation to promote the diversity of the cultures represented in it in all its activities under other provisions of the treaties.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the eu pharmaceutical strategy (2020/2878 ((rsp)). i would like to point out to all members that today, as in all the debates in this assembly, the agreed procedure applies, that we do not accept spontaneous speeches - i know that this is very difficult for some people - and that there are no blue cards, so as not to discriminate between the colleagues in the chamber and those who are connected by the eplo. the commission will also be able to make use of the european parliament's liaison offices in the member states.
(inaudible interjections from the floor from mr martusciello) president. – colleague, i told you at the beginning that i cannot accept individual remarks or interventions. (inaudible interjections from the floor from mr martusciello)no, it’s not acceptable. i explained very clearly why it is not acceptable. please sit down. the commissioner has the floor. stop please.
member of the commission. – mr president, we are nearing the end of one of the most challenging and most consequential years in recent memory. first of all, as i look back on 2020, the feeling i have is of being heartbroken for so many lives that have been lost. but i also feel pride and i feel gratitude when i think of all the frontline workers and all the doctors and nurses who have sacrificed, how neighbours have rallied around each other, and how the european union came together to support citizens of member states. i’m also reminded of an old saying that those who do not learn from history are condemned to repeat it, and covid-19 has taught us some harsh lessons, lessons that we are still learning. it has reminded us of the foundational role that health plays in our societies and our economies. it has highlighted the vital importance of solidarity, and this has amplified structural vulnerabilities in our health system. the commission is determined to heed these lessons and take decisive action in partnership with the european parliament and member states. yesterday, we adopted an ambitious pharmaceutical strategy for europe. it is an important building block in a genuine european health union and i am truly delighted to have the opportunity to discuss it with you. this strategy addresses both the short-term challenges linked to covid-19 and the long-term challenges connected with unmet medical needs, europe’s strategic autonomy and sustainable health systems. i will share with you that this was a strategy that was in my mandate letter from president von der leyen one year ago. when i saw it there, i knew that we were faced with challenges with the pharmaceutical situation in europe, but i never imagined that we would be presenting it in the covid—19 crisis. it has changed a lot and we have adjusted many things in this strategy from what we have learned in this pandemic. it focuses on four key areas. first and foremost, improving patients’ access to affordable medicines. secondly, ensuring innovation to boost the potential of our pharmaceutical industry and increasing support for unmet medical needs of patients. this includes harnessing the benefits of emerging science and technology and reducing the environmental footprint. it is no good having innovation if you cannot have this reach patients. third, building strategic autonomy, developing resilient and diverse types of supply chains, and addressing the root causes of shortages of medicines. this includes the european health emergency response authority (hera), which will enable the eu and its member states to rapidly deploy the most advanced medical and other measures in the event of a health emergency. and finally, fourth, to promote eu influence and competitiveness at global level and ensure a level playing field for eu operators. so the pharmaceutical strategy aims to cover the whole life cycle of medicine, from research to clinical trials and authorisation, from consumption to safe disposal. honourable members, the current pharmaceutical legislation has served us well. however, we are now living in a vastly different reality. we have to take a holistic view of the pharmaceutical legislation and make the necessary improvements to ensure it is better adapted for today’s world. over the next two years, we will work hard on the reform of the pharmaceutical legislation. this reform will address all the angles i mentioned, but always putting the patient at the centre and always ensuring that our pharmaceutical industry maintains its global leadership. this applies to the framework for medicines, for children and rare diseases. however, this strategy is not just about changes to legislation. we will also simplify the regulatory procedure allowing quicker access to innovative and affordable medicines for patients, such as gene-editing technologies and personalised treatments; to facilitate the development of novel antibiotics and to combat antimicrobial resistance; to increase the uptake of generics and biosimilars. we will also create a health data space where regulators and the industry can exchange data for the benefit of patients and provide for simple solutions such as electronic product information. at the same time, we will revise our system of initiatives for research and development to ensure those incentives are fair and balanced while allowing the eu industry to remain innovative and competitive worldwide. we will also take action to make medicines more environmentally friendly. last, but definitely not least, we aim to address shortages of medicines by reinforcing the current obligations for supply, and require an early notification of interruption. in parallel, we will strengthen coordination with key stakeholders and industry and patient associations by establishing a structural dialogue to better understand vulnerabilities in the supply chain. i just want to end by saying a few words. there are thousands of european union citizens who are today suffering from rare diseases, and there are thousands of families who have children with cancer, and they do not have access to the medicines that we would want them to have that would give them a better quality of life and hope. the way forward with this is to encourage innovation and to make sure that no matter where you live, no matter which member state you belong to, you have equal access to safe and affordable and innovative medicines. the road is not going to be easy, and this is a strategy that is a vision, and it is a vision with actions that will be developing over the next four years. we already have a very buoyant, and i would say a front-runner, in the pharmaceutical industry in europe, but we can do better and we now have the opportunity, so it’s up to all of us – the european parliament, the council and definitely the commission. if we work together, we can bring together new legislation, but also other actions that are really going to change the realities for access to medicines for citizens across the member states, and this is a responsibility that we will definitely do our best to stand up to.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, one of the lessons of the covid-19 pandemic is that we have accelerated the construction of a european health union, and this new pharmaceutical strategy is an opportunity to cement one of the pillars of this new europe for health. with this strategy we must be able to tackle any pandemic or health threat, put the patient at the centre of all decisions, address unmet medical needs, ensure access to medicines for all, strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and make europe a world leader in research and healthcare. we must invest more in the fight against antimicrobial resistance and its rapid spread, which threatens europe with more than 33 000 deaths a year. today, there are more than 7,000 rare diseases, 95 percent of which are untreated. we must respond to patients and their families in the face of this great despair. we have a huge gap in pediatric drug research and development, and our kids come first. and we cannot allow a european cancer patient to have a difference of between 7% and 90% chance of accessing approved medicines. or that you have to wait 90 to 1,000 days for a drug to go on the market after it's been approved. the strategy should also strengthen the competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry by fostering a stable and robust regulatory system, improving public procurement, streamlining approval procedures without sacrificing safety and facilitating the availability of quality medicines. the technological and digital transformation must also be a reality, using artificial intelligence to improve early detection and advance innovative and personalised treatments. and we must promote production in europe and our industrial autonomy so as not to be dependent on third countries. there are many challenges ahead of us and we must respond to each one. and to do that, we need the public and private sectors to work together. only then will we achieve the balance between innovation, accessibility and sustainability of national health systems. only then will we protect one of the great fundamental rights, the health of all, and hopefully for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this covid-19 crisis has brought to light the main problems we have. these are problems of price, of relocation and of shortages of medicines and health products. the first thing i ask of you, commissioner, is to create a structure. in the strategy you talk about dialogue, but i think that we need a task force, a structure, so that there can be this work between patient associations, between administrations and also between the pharmaceutical industry. and i ask you to bet on genuine innovation, not incremental innovation, which is what we've been doing up until now and it doesn't solve our problems. we also need to assess the added therapeutic value of new innovative medicines and be a leader in r&d. i remind you that we have not had new antibiotics for over 30 years, commissioner. and finally, to point out that access to advanced therapies cannot be discriminatory. let's use this crisis to make a good strategy.
in writing. the adoption of the pharmaceutical strategy for europe is certainly a step forward in the construction of a european health union. the s&d group has long called for greater action to ensure access to safe, effective and affordable medicines and is pleased to see that the commission's proposal suggests concrete actions to achieve these objectives. the spanish socialists hope that the commission will create a structure in which there can be joint work between patient associations, administrations and the pharmaceutical industry. we also call for more investment in genuine, not incremental, research to assess the added therapeutic value of new innovative medicines and to make the eu a therapeutic r & d benchmark. the covid-19 pandemic should serve as a lesson for us to create a good pharmaceutical strategy. future measures should focus on patients, ensuring equal access to medicines and therapies for all european citizens. the ultimate aim is to ensure the health of all and to build a europe more resilient to future health crises.
madam president, commissioner, this 'mini-agreement' is a small step on a commercial level, but it is a big step on a political level to make progress in the normalisation of trade relations with the united states. it is a very important point, and i hope that the commission will take it up with us. the lack is obvious: lack of coherence. why would you do that? because while this commission is holding back and paralysing the agreement with mercosur, because it is questioning the environmental commitments of countries that signed the paris agreements, it is negotiating a trade agreement with a country that has directly abandoned them, as is the case with the united states. so respect for the paris agreement is a sine qua non condition when it comes to mercosur, but not when it comes to the united states? it's not consistent. the shortcoming: this agreement is a missed opportunity to correct an unfair situation for european products that suffer unilateral tariffs from the united states, as is the case for spanish table olives since 2017. commissioner, europe needs trade, trade based on rules, committed to the protection of the environment, sustainable development and human rights. but these values must be applicable and enforceable on all our partners equally. it also needs the commission to defend all european products equally, not just aluminium and steel but also olives. because sending conflicting messages with asymmetrical demands depending on who you are negotiating with is detrimental to and a serious threat to the international credibility of the european union. the same way that failure to defend all european products equally diminishes and threatens the citizens' life in their institutions. finally, the desire for a geopolitical europe, especially in the commercial field, requires momentum, leadership and commitment, but above all equity and consistency.
author. madam president, the case of algeria clearly shows the enormous gap between the public discourse of the new rulers and the reality of the daily practice of the institutions with regard to what is happening in the street. and what happens in the streets of algeria? other members have said it: a huge, peaceful popular mobilization 'i stress the peaceful' that insists on real and not cosmetic change. the hirak movement has resumed the mobilizations, again large and peaceful, after having suspended its activity during the pandemic. and the official reaction offering a top-down constitutional reform has been met with scorn by algerians, with a turnout in the constitutional referendum of only 24%. the people in algeria, as everywhere, do not want any more empty promises. people want reforms, but they want that theoretical spirit to be reflected in action and not just in speeches, because alongside the promises there is a growing repression, incompatible with that theoretical desire for change. the arrests, the abuse, the persecution, the censorship must stop now. they have to stop now, not after these theoretical reforms have taken place, because this is the test of the sincerity of the speech. cases like that of jaled drareni illustrate this puzzling state of affairs. this tv5 and reporters without borders correspondent has been arrested several times, warned that he would be taken to court if he continued reporting and has finally been sentenced to two years. there have been other similar cases, such as said budur. we know the weight of military power in the country's historical tradition, and this new constitution should at least serve to limit that military power and enter into democratic standards. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. algeria is an important country, we have good relations and we want to see it on the other side of the mediterranean, but on this side of democracy.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i will not focus my speech on belarus. not exclusively, at least. because in this matter it is impossible to distinguish between information and propaganda, and i prefer to see it in a broader context. i would like to make a comment on the european union's neighbourhood policy. if we look at the countries that are part of the eastern partnership agreement - belarus, ukraine, moldova, georgia, armenia and azerbaijan - there is some conflict in all of them, an open conflict of varying intensity. i think we can conclude that something we're not doing right, or that we could do better. we believe that our policies must be reoriented towards a sincere dialogue. this means rebuilding, re-directing the current objective, which is nothing more than the integration of these countries into the single market at any cost. i believe that we are in a time of change and of fostering relations based on respect for human rights, the sovereignty of peoples and mutual benefit. the european union must be an instrument for solving problems and not for aggravating them by competing with other actors to expand our sphere of influence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament must give its full support to the 1 200 000 european citizens who, through their citizens' initiative, have placed the issue of minority rights on the european union's agenda. the joint resolution proposed can still evolve to be as close as possible to the expectations of these citizens mobilized for a more democratic, more inclusive and more diverse europe. the text must be lightened by reports dictated by recent news to remain true to the citizen dynamic of the minority safepack, which is being developed by an ngo based in northern germany, fuen. the question of respect for minorities in europe, which is weighed down by the burden of decades of conflicting relations within the states, must be freed from the political contingencies of the hour. that is why our group asks members, regardless of their membership, to support the amendments we have tabled on behalf of the greens/efa group.
madam president, we welcome this european citizens' initiative, which is absolutely necessary for the protection and promotion of minority languages and cultures. i would like to congratulate the promoters for having obtained 1 300 000 supports and i would also like to say that, as stated in the resolution, the unesco atlas of the world's languages in danger lists 186 languages of the member states of the union as being in danger, and one of these is basque, the basque language. thus, every person belonging to a national or linguistic minority should have the right to education in a minority language and, to this end, all competent administrations should invest in long-term educational strategies. it is therefore of vital importance that all member states implement and ratify the framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages of the council of europe. it is also time for a qualitative leap to be made and for basque, the basque language, to be made official in the european institutions. (the speaker concludes his speech by speaking in an unofficial language.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the renew group has been and is defending the protection of minorities, the most vulnerable, and of course the promotion of linguistic diversity. we act in support of freedom of choice, avoiding any kind of discrimination, any kind of malicious sociolinguistic engineering. because it is about having more rights, not less, and, especially, protecting the mother tongue of children by promoting multilingualism. i belong to the first generation that could do this. for this reason, we have negotiated - and i am grateful for the support of the majority groups - specifically so that where there is more than one official language, the linguistic rights of all people, of all real people, are respected. the european union is a place where people meet, a place where they communicate, and the linguistic wealth we treasure is a cultural treasure which we must promote in an open and balanced way, making it possible for every citizen to exercise his or her rights, because it is the europe of citizens who guarantees all these wonderful rights in freedom.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today europe has a double opportunity. on the one hand, it can provide a framework for the protection of diversity in its various forms. and on the other hand, the adoption of these measures can strengthen the citizens' initiative, an indispensable instrument for democracy. i therefore ask the commission not to shirk its responsibility and to commit itself to giving an answer to the more than one million citizens who are asking it to protect diversity. unfortunately, too many countries are still in abeyance on this matter. multilingualism and cultural diversity, despite being europe's heritage and reason for being, are under threat. the resolution accompanying this debate is, broadly speaking, positive, despite the efforts to the contrary by some who see the protection of diversity as a threat to their privileges. (the speaker concludes in an unofficial language)
mr president, the protection of minorities and their rights in the european union is an important issue, particularly in some member states. the rights of national and linguistic minorities are also linked to history, traditions and the preservation of the identity of these minorities, who feel restricted, fear further restrictions and ask for our support. the european union promotes linguistic and national diversity in its education and culture programmes, but it cannot act beyond its own competences in this area. i believe that the european parliament is aware of the sensitivity and also the exploitability of this issue. yes, we want to preserve the cultural heritage created over hundreds of years by the wealth of nations and language groups, of linguistic minorities. but we don't want this plot to be misused for separatist and political purposes. ladies and gentlemen, let us not deceive ourselves that such trends are not present in the european union. i hope that the european parliament will support the european citizens' initiative in a responsible way and with due regard for its subsidiarity.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in dealing with minorities, we understand how democratic a society is. in times of crisis, the language of hatred and xenophobia grows. the slogan 'unity in diversity' is not just an expression but a meaningful cause of the european union. this is why the citizens' initiative minority save pack should be very strongly supported. it allows citizens to participate directly in european democracy and i am proud that 36,263 signatures, these are the signatures of bulgarian citizens, stand alongside those of over a million europeans. it's time for the citizens' initiative for the protection of linguistic and ethnocultural rights to become common law. the time for consultation is long over, commissioner, and it is time for european legislation. it is time for modern european legislation to safeguard and develop european diversity. it is important to us because it is a european value, and above all it is a common human value.
mr president, the protection of europe's linguistic wealth is a duty for everyone, but a responsibility - let us remember this - of the member states. so all sympathy for the protection of abused minority languages, wherever they may be. but what some people, especially in spain, are trying to do is not to help minority languages, which are protected by the constitution and by practice, but to have the european union finance discrimination against the common language, to pay for the policy of persecuting the spanish language in order to impose a monolingual order in certain regions by force, an attack on freedom, a unique aberration in europe: that the common language of the whole nation is persecuted for ideological reasons. this initiative is sponsored in spain mainly by separatists. they are not interested in linguistic diversity: they want to destroy the spanish language in certain regions which they want to separate from spain, and they also want you to pay for it. there's the catch.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, next year we are celebrating the european year of the rail, a great opportunity to promote what is today a transport system of a primarily european nature. the railways have been with us for generations, and they were directly involved in the progress and industrialisation of europe in the 19th century. but, ladies and gentlemen, i strongly hope that 2021 will not be limited to a mere dissemination campaign; 2021 must be the turning point to achieve what many of us have been fighting for many years: the famous mediterranean corridors and atlantic corridors in spain... in short, the european corridors, all over europe. it is of little or no use to celebrate the european year of the rail if there are still whole european regions today which do not have a railway system of their own for the 21st century. ladies and gentlemen, europe is not only being built in the main european capitals, europe is also being built in the far corners of brussels: places like murcia, extremadura, algeciras or galicia, in short, cities that have railway connections today in the 19th century and that, unfortunately, next year will have little or nothing to celebrate. that is why i call on all member states to make 2021 the year of real commitment to move forward in achieving the european corridors. i hope and wish that in the not too distant future we will be able to come here to this house to commemorate the fact that all european citizens, without exception, have a wonderful means of transport such as the train. everything depends on that, and it also depends on our responsibility and on all of us.
mr president, commissioner, we are just over two weeks away from the start of the european year of the rail, an initiative which aims to attract more users and goods to the railway, considered to be one of the most energy-efficient and environmentally friendly modes of transport and a key element in the sustainable mobility accompanying the new green deal. this requires putting users at the centre of attention and offering them a more comfortable, safer, greener, more accessible and socially sustainable transport alternative at an affordable price. but also major investments and an adequate budget at all levels, including in the recovery plans, are needed to achieve real connectivity across the european union, including in rural and remote areas; investments that will create a truly single, modern, interoperable and more resilient european railway area. the railway has been, from its origins, a backbone and driving force of the union's territorial and socio-economic cohesion and should continue to be so. let's put the tools in place to make it a real alternative.
mr president, in the last five years, smes have created about 85% of new jobs in europe, while some large companies, as good global players, have destroyed more jobs than they created. because these smes, which are so important for the fixation of wealth and employment in the territory, are now suffering especially with covid. we must therefore make an extra effort to ensure that the 25 million smes we have in europe continue to create jobs, that they are of quality and that they remain competitive. with the unlocking of the european budget, we must now face the recovery with projects that contribute to a transformation that is integral, green, digital, but also social, where smes have a place, but also the social economy or also entrepreneurs, who added 30% of all people who start, but only receive 2% of the funding, and now with covid they have dropped to 1%. support for smes is clear for a more balanced, more social, but also more innovative recovery. let us not forget, for example, that a german sme is behind the pfizer vaccine. so it's our responsibility to support them.
mr president, we have already mentioned the importance of smes for our economy, since they form the backbone of our economy. the commission's sme strategy needs to be revised, and the damage being done by the covid crisis needs to be incorporated. this economic crisis is driving many small businesses to the brink of insolvency. they are shops, hotels, small industries that are fundamental to social cohesion. that requires funding on terms that they have access to. in addition to covid, we have structural challenges to solve. we have to make sure that next generation usa reaches our smes. there will be no success in digital and ecological transition if we do not incorporate them into this opportunity. to do this we must break down administrative barriers and simplify procedures. i welcome the progress made in horizon europe, which will enable them to innovate. so are the advances in digital, but let's remember: recovery will be uneven and unfair if recovery funds don't reach our small and medium-sized businesses.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. extraterritorial sanctions are contrary to the principles of multilateral cooperation. the extra-territorial effects of laws from third countries are not limited to a particular capital city. china, for example, threatens to punish any criticism of its policies to suppress the democracy movement in hong kong wherever it is expressed in the world with the threat of punishment. this should be borne in mind when discussing extraterritorial sanctions in the case of iran policy or nord stream 2. in the case of instex, we need more common ground and more european capacity to act. it is true that some additional countries have joined instex, but unfortunately the solidarity of the european member states on this issue is not to be mentioned. i think that's why we have to pick our noses. as regards nord stream 2, there is not only a dispute between the us and the eu, but also within the eu itself. there can be no one-way street when there are disagreements between allies. we need a political solution to this problem, for example, to stabilize ukraine in particular and to support the three seas initiative. in that context, perhaps a solution can be found.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, this debate on extraterritorial sanctions is very timely. firstly, because, in the face of the health crisis, european leaders, the commission in the lead, have spoken of strategic autonomy. but there is no strategic autonomy if a country outside the european union tells us with whom we should trade and with whom we should not trade. it is also an opportunity for us to send a clear message to our american partners at a time when they are changing presidents, if not changing their trade policy. so yes, let us say it again together: it is not acceptable that european companies, or even european executives, should be prosecuted or punished on the pretext that they are legitimately and legally trading with other countries. there are the examples of iran, cuba, but also nord stream, because nord stream is a project on european soil, no matter what you think about the project. well, we have to fight back, and to fight back, we have to apply a simple principle: reciprocity. the technical solutions exist. the problem today is political will. i am counting on all of us, collectively, to make this happen and to finally bring this concept of strategic autonomy to life.
mr president, commissioner, european operators have the right to be guaranteed, in any case, the freedom to carry out their commercial activities without any kind of intermediary, and it is the commission's duty to guarantee this right. legal certainty is a fundamental element in commercial activities, which cannot be called into question by the extraterritorial effects of unilateral sanctions. the spanish hotel sector could be a clear example of these undesirable consequences. and we cannot accept that, because let us not forget that these effects are contrary to international law. once again, we must ask the commission to be firm in developing its economic sovereignty and strategic autonomy, while, as the commissioner has already said, we must improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our foreign policy instruments, such as the blockade statute or instex. and another thing: in this new phase which is opening up in the united states, let us redouble our efforts to achieve better coordination in the application of sanctions. and let us also try to reach that longed-for, broad and deep trade agreement.
mr president, commissioner, the european union must maintain its firm commitment to human rights. it is our duty to punish those political leaders who commit arbitrary arrests, torture, extrajudicial executions, etc. initiatives such as the recently passed magnitsky act are going in the right direction. its sanctions regime must be applied immediately, especially against flagrant and well-known cases, such as those of the leaders of the venezuelan narco-dictatorship and their cuban or nicaraguan partners. but as europeans and sovereigns of our own choices, we cannot allow the sanctions of third countries to cause collateral damage to our companies. many european companies, and spanish in particular, are suffering from trump's harassment of sanctions for their legal economic activities in latin american countries. companies in every sector, from energy and finance to hotel and agri-food. what steps is the commission taking to implement its own sanctions agenda in latin america, while preventing european companies from suffering from those of other countries?
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, only fools confuse value with price, said antonio machado. last week we broke the news that water is starting to trade on the wall street futures markets. the price has already been set: the price for speculating on a fundamental right, as pedro arrojo, the united nations rapporteur, denounced. today we celebrate the progress of this directive and its work on water quality, which will improve the lives of many europeans. but we fell short of protecting its value as a common good, far from the citizens' initiative, brought to this parliament and supported by over 1 800 000 people, which guaranteed access to this human right, recognised as such by the united nations. water belongs to everyone and is a public good, closely linked to all our lives, environments and livelihoods, and an essential component of public health. given the current climate change outlook, the available flows will continue to decrease. in the face of corruption problems and privatisation pressures, our water policy must be implemented from a strict commitment to public, integrated, participatory and sustainable management of rivers, lakes, wetlands and aquifers as well as water and sanitation services.
madam president, we finally have a revised water quality regulation for human consumption after 20 years, updating water quality standards with the latest scientific data, improving consumer information and promoting the consumption of tap water. but let's not kid ourselves: he has two big faults, two big problems. first, we have lost the opportunity to recognize water as a universal right again. we've been asked to do this by two million people, citizens, who signed the right to water initiative, who asked us to legislate to recognize universal and equitable access to safe and affordable water for all. but it hasn't. it could not be done in this parliament by the conservative groups, and it could not be done in the council either. but i say to them that access to water should not be promoted, it should not be improved; access to water, as a universal right, should be secured, guaranteed, recognized. on the other hand, it is true that the initiative affects the accessibility of water, its safety, its acceptability, but not its affordability. and there's also water poverty, not just energy poverty. because the resources may come, but if there's no money to meet the bills, we have the same problem. as regards the resolution on the application of water legislation, i am pleased to see that the gaps which still existed have disappeared and that it is therefore fit for purpose, making it clear that it does not need to be revised. i'm glad to hear that. now, water is a public good, you can't industrialize this sector any more. we cannot leave the field open to speculators with water use and exploitation rights.
mr president, this transitional regulation is an important achievement because, as we are immersed in this pandemic, we have been able to give legal certainty to farmers so that they can continue to receive cap aid during the years 2021 and 2022, until the entry into force of the new cap in january 2023. in the second part of the trilogues we have also achieved something very important, and that was to incorporate the 8 000 million from the recovery fund into the transitional regulation. finally, the transition will be for two years. it is a pity that the european commission has insisted throughout the negotiation process that this transitional period should be one year only, when it was obvious that the desirable minimum was two years. this may sound anecdotal, but it is a very partial view of agricultural reality. finally, i would like to highlight the achievements for the wine, fruit and vegetable sectors, which will enjoy greater flexibility under the single cap, and - and this is very important - the maintenance of the funds for the outermost regions. i should like to end by thanking the rapporteur, mrs katainen, her whole team and all those who have made it possible to bring this transitional regulation to fruition.
mr president, mr commissioner, the agri-food sector has been living since march in uncertainty because of the coronavirus - transport problems, temporary workers who could not cross the border, forced closure of hotels, national aid that did not arrive, etc. - all this added to the big questions faced on the sidelines of the pandemic, such as the impact of brexit, trump's tariffs or an increasingly restrictive environmental legislation. that is why today, with the adoption of the transitional regulation, parliament is seeking to provide certainty and confidence for the future: by 2023, european farmers and livestock farmers will be covered by the same rules as before for their cap funds. we also accelerated the allocation of the additional eur 7.5 billion from the recovery fund for rural areas, because europe cannot afford to leave anyone behind. we also include a fundamental change in article 167a, which will allow the regulation of the supply of olive oil in crisis situations - a historical demand of the sector in spain, and in andalusia in particular - and provides certainty in planting authorizations for the wine sector. and finally, we have managed to avoid the serious cut that some people wanted to make in the financial allocation for the posei programme, a measure of justice to protect agriculture in the outermost regions such as the canary islands. in short, this regulation has brought some calm in the midst of the storm, but we will continue to work to improve its future in the years to come.
the next item is the debate on the report by andrey novakov and constanze krehl, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 as regards exceptional additional resources and implementing arrangements under the investment for growth and jobs goal to provide assistance for fostering crisis repair in the context of the covid—19 pandemic and preparing a green, digital and resilient recovery of the economy (react—eu) (com(2020)0451 – c9-0149/2020 – 2020/0101(cod)) (a9-0150/2020).
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i wish we weren't having this debate, because that would mean we wouldn't be living the nightmare that we're suffering from covid. what we are experiencing is a real human tragedy in the form of a virus which has already killed over 476 000 europeans; a pandemic which has caused the death of over one and a half million people worldwide and has infected over 72 million people. and so i want to begin my speech by expressing my deepest sympathy for the dead, sending my warmest regards to all the relatives and friends and wishing a speedy recovery to all those infected. i also want to acknowledge the immense work of so many people who over these months have been and are on the front lines of the fight against the pandemic: to all of them, a heartfelt thank you for their immense dedication, sacrifice and professionalism. and it is precisely thanks to the immense work and talent of scientists and the investment of multinational pharmaceutical companies, supported by public institutions, that we can now say that there is hope because we have a vaccine. we'll soon be past this terrible pandemic, but what follows is almost as tragic. without a doubt, we are facing the greatest challenge we have faced since world war ii. the humanitarian and health tragedy is compounded by the terrible social and economic consequences we are already beginning to suffer: the collapse of our gross domestic product, the increase in debt and deficit, the closure of businesses, the destruction of jobs, the fall in consumption, uncertainty, since this nightmare is not yet over, but we are still immersed in it; macroeconomic data that are already translated into the needs and social emergencies of many of our compatriots and their families. in the face of all this tragedy, we should be proud of the european union's reaction. i believe that the european union and its institutions have risen to the challenge and have been able to give a rapid, effective, forceful and unanimous response since march and april, when it was responded to with rapid initiatives to speed up the member states' access to the funds they needed to be able to meet the needs of masks and health expenditure. it is in this context that the next generation eu programme is born, an unprecedented economic recovery plan - we are talking about 750 billion euros - and it is within this programme, the next generation eu programme, that we find the react-eu programme - which we are discussing today - a programme of 47 500 million euros. just as it was necessary to remember why this plan arose, it is equally essential to underline for what. the recovery plans and the injection of public money are not in themselves good news. let us not forget that public money does not fall from the sky, it comes from debt, which we or future generations will have to pay, or it comes from taxes, which we will undoubtedly have to pay. these are plans that must always be born in exceptional situations such as the one we are living in and with a series of concrete, measurable and evaluated objectives. and in my opinion, the plan we have presented today is a very good agreement. we have reached a good agreement - as i said - which clearly identifies the areas of investment, the objectives to be achieved, the sectors to be financed and the conditions to be met. without a doubt, a good road map to achieve a real recovery of our economy. what is react-eu? grants and loans to smes in crisis to support those who are the real protagonists of recovery: the self-employed and entrepreneurs; the entrepreneurs, the only ones capable of creating jobs, those jobs so needed; the small businesses that create community, which maintain much of the employment, often supported, at this moment, by family support. the state will not be the one to revive the economy or create jobs. the state has the opportunity to help those who can, entrepreneurs. we must not make the mistake of repeating the outdated interventionism of the past, and it is good that react-eu has approved aid for entrepreneurs and the selfemployed. in addition, this programme includes a clear commitment to something fundamental: training, digitisation, the energy transition and support for our severely punished health systems, all of which are pillars of a recovery not only in the short term, but a recovery understood as the construction of a path for the european economic and social future. this good agreement also includes the much-needed retroactivity from 1 february 2020 so that member states can use the funding from the moment the pandemic began. having one more year to invest thanks to the increase in investment eligibility until the end of 2023 will allow the rationality of the investment. there's no rush to spend the money. first, because we have not seen the end of the crisis and we have yet to see many companies sadly fail and restructure. so we have to keep in mind that we are looking at the medium term. there's no rush to spend money; it has to be spent well. and secondly, because it will be deliberate and will go where it can have a leverage effect, one of the characteristics of cohesion funding. the speed with which the european commission approved the investment within two weeks is very good news. we do not need the money to be in brussels, but on the ground, in the regions, in the municipalities, wherever it is needed. we therefore acknowledge the efforts of the institutions to shorten the approval periods throughout the process. implementation will be done through the existing cohesion policy rules and structures; there will be no additional red tape. and 100 per cent of the funds will be european funds; there will be no national funds. finally, i would like to thank all the political groups in the committee on regional development for the immense work they have done, for the effort we have made to get react-eu approved. it is a very good agreement for the citizens, it is a good agreement for entrepreneurs and businessmen and it will certainly help to create jobs.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, today we can be very proud to be europeans. in the midst of the second wave of covid, with heartbreaking death and infection figures across europe and economic consequences still unpredictable, today we approve the first fund of the recovery package: the react-eu fund, with €47.5 billion for the countries that need it most. and if we often talk about the inefficiency of the european union, the rigidity of its procedures and how far it is from the citizens, today we are demonstrating the opposite: that the european union has acted quickly and that it has certainly lived up to the challenge, and that this is an example of european solidarity. because this is not going to be a fund to use. it will have unprecedented flexibility, no usual restrictions will be imposed and it will have a co-financing rate of one hundred per cent, so that it is the regional and local authorities who decide what this money can be used for until 2023. thanks to react-eu, small entrepreneurs, the hospitality industry, small businesses will be able to receive liquidity to cope with the serious losses they have had since the pandemic began, since february 2020. but you can also finance healthcare costs - beds, ppe, respirators - and of course support all the unemployed who need it. it's a breath of fresh air for the hardest-hit sectors. in countries like mine, like spain, where forecasts indicate that one in ten businesses will have to close, that gdp will plummet by 12%, and that there will be a million more people at risk of poverty, citizens, who are having such a bad time, need good news. and this is good news. europe has now done its homework and it is up to us to ensure that these funds are used correctly, that they reach the citizens as soon as possible and that not a single euro is wasted. i can only thank you, commissioner, for your involvement, and also the chairman of the committee on regional development and all the rapporteurs, who have worked so closely together, in this spirit of commitment, to ensure that these funds reach the citizens as soon as possible.
madam president, this is undoubtedly a very important plenary session for many reasons: we will be discussing the annual budget, the much-awaited agreement on the multiannual financial framework and the aid package and measures to deal with covid, among many other very important matters. but if we are to find a point, a link between all these important issues we are discussing, it is the capacity that the european institutions are showing - that we are showing - to consolidate important agreements when citizens need it most. we are sending a very clear message to the citizens of europe: europe is here to help you through this difficult time. today we approve the react-eu instrument, an important mechanism that is going to help many people, many european citizens to get out of this covid-19 crisis. this fund will reinforce the most important thing - the right to health - by helping health systems in the worst-off countries. this fund will give a very big boost to economies that have been so badly damaged; it will give a boost to business; it will help to recover and maintain jobs for hundreds of thousands of european citizens and it will help sectors as damaged as culture or tourism in these times of pandemic. this is certainly a great instrument which will help the member states to cope with this crisis. let us help them to make it a genuine solidarity and hope-filled opportunity in the face of this crisis. it is also a question of making it easier for public administrations to have the flexibility we have always been asking for: flexibility which is not at odds with efficiency in the use of resources; not rigid, but rigorous. i would like to thank and congratulate the european commission - represented here by commissioner elisa ferreira - the rapporteurs who have worked so hard to reach an agreement, the council and the president of the commission for their work in defence of and as a symbol of what this fund represents: a clear and decisive commitment by the european institutions to cohesion policies.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr borrell, when the barcelona process was launched in 1995, the european union set itself very ambitious objectives: first, the promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law; second, the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking; and, finally, economic and social development, in particular the fight against youth unemployment. twenty-five years later and hundreds of millions of euros later, europe is still far from achieving these objectives and is facing new challenges to which it is unable to respond, as is the case with the geopolitical struggle that other powers are waging on our southern flank. but how will europe achieve its objectives if it is not able to defend its most basic interests? mr borrell, today one of the european union's most important partners continues to challenge the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a member state with impunity. and i am not talking about turkey; i am talking about morocco, which in recent years has asserted sovereignty over spanish waters in the canary islands and tightened its grip on ceuta and melilla. the first condition of all foreign policy is geography. europe cannot afford to ignore the southern shore of the mediterranean. we need to continue to work on a euro-mediterranean policy that solves common problems. but how are we going to advance good governance, human rights in the region, when the foundations of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of a member state, such as spain, are lacking in our relationship? i therefore ask you, mr borrell, what are you going to do to ensure that moroccan respect for spanish sovereignty is a priority for the european union and an inexcusable condition of our relations?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr borrell, thank you very much; in fact, you are right in this case. almost everything is worse right now than it was in 1995. twenty-five years ago democracy had a great prestige, 1989 had just passed, europe had been reunited, communist regimes had fallen, and we really believed that democracy would advance to other areas as well. today we know that this was not so. we have seen that weakness, and to a large extent the message of weakness that europe has given, has been one of the factors that has led to this destabilisation that has occurred in large parts of the mediterranean, and that affects us so much. not just the population explosion, not just this massive illegal immigration that's happening that can destabilize us and use other powers against us, as is the case with turkey. we have seen a deterioration in relations with many countries. we have seen iran, which is a threat, looming over the mediterranean through syria. i mean, we're much, much worse off than we were in 1995.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr borrell, the barcelona process is 25 years old and we must look at how the situation in the mediterranean has changed. it has certainly been a success for the multinationals, for those who profit from the violation of rights, exploitation and slavery, but i wonder what progress has been made in the area of human rights, peace and stability, which was the objective. you have acknowledged in your initial speech that progress has not been what was expected. i want to focus on three examples - there could be many more, but i don't have time. israel, a privileged partner of the european union, receives, thanks to the barcelona process, more than 170 million euros a year which help to perpetuate the occupation of palestine, financing, for example, military research. this year saw a record number of new illegal settlements and the response was to try to reactivate the association council - a curious way of punishing those who violate international law on a daily basis. libya had the highest human development index in africa, according to the united nations, until nato, with our help, destroyed the country to keep its resources. today the war is still active and, under the pretext of controlling immigration, community policy is based on financing armed militias which create concentration camps for migrants and slave markets. finally, morocco, another of our preferred partners, continues to consolidate by deeds the occupation of western sahara and the plundering of its natural resources. the european union legitimises these policies and benefits from them through trade agreements. the barcelona process has been big business for many multinationals and some governments. it is up to us, mr borrell, to give real priority to human rights and to make them the central axis of our foreign policy, and not to leave them in a nice paragraph.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the european recovery plan will inject hundreds of billions of euros into the economies of the member states of the union, but this is not magic money: the sums borrowed will have to be repaid. to finance this gigantic debt, the union has therefore decided to use its own resources, i.e. taxes whose proceeds will go directly into its coffers, without going through the budgets of the states. beyond its purely financial aspect, the operation therefore pursues a very political aim: to make the union more autonomous, less dependent on the budgetary decisions of the states. it is therefore a very important step towards the transformation of the union into a federal state. european sovereignty, which is dear to president macron, is on the march. i strongly condemn this drift, because i am in favour of a democratic europe which respects the identities and sovereignty of nations, and not this strange technocratic model of a state without a nation and a sovereignty without a people. i believe that i am the spokesman for the majority of the french people, who, i remind you, rejected the draft european constitution in a referendum in 2005. finally, i regret that two good ideas are being ruined in the process, namely the creation of a gafa tax on the digital giants and a carbon tax levied on the import of polluting goods. i would have supported these taxes if their proceeds had gone to the budgets of the member states in line with my vision of europe.
madam president, a lot has been said on the council conclusions – and i wish to thank you, president von der leyen, for saying you will implement the law right away – but we still have questions. on the commission statement that went together with the council’s, the commission says that it is committed to the elements referred to in paragraph 2 of the council conclusions. part of those council conclusions state very clearly that the guidelines can only be finalised after an ecj ruling, and that until the guidelines are finalised the commission will not propose measures under the regulation. if you say ‘i am committed to those conclusions’ then how should we interpret these council conclusions. a clear answer is needed – not just saying ‘i’m going to implement it’. what are you going to do with paragraph 2(c) of the council conclusions on the guidelines? (applause)this is also to the council thinking they are a co—legislator. again, if we look at the climate conclusions, you will come back. you say ‘we are going to give guidelines on climate in the spring before the commission comes with its package’. do you know that the council is not allowed to do co—legislation? will you refrain from that? and commission, will you please not say again that you will commit to those guidelines? because it is here where co—legislation is done. (applause)
madam president, i would like to thank you. today is a day of mourning. the vast majority of you in this house are fanatics, and you will not rest until you have smashed just about every self-determination and created a united states of europe. today you stand here proud of the budget and the corona package when in fact you should be ashamed ashamed that you are putting our children and grandchildren in debt for a very long time to come by lending money directly to the budget in direct contravention of the treaty and then giving it away without any demand as to how it is used or how it is to be repaid. we're getting closer to christmas, and this is what you're going to give as christmas presents to our children and grandchildren. santa will be ashamed of you as you hand out these packets of carb-bits to our future generations. - thank you.
madam president, president von der leyen, president michel, ladies and gentlemen, we have complied with the europeans. there is already agreement to increase the funds of the recovery plan with a firm commitment to the defense of the rule of law. now it is up to the various governments to react and to live up to the challenge. this aid belongs to all europeans and must be used to create jobs, growth and overcome this health crisis. don't get confused! these funds are not for any government or any ideology. it is necessary to require each country to be transparent, to have more parliamentary control and to have independent management of this aid. otherwise, we can suffer again the waste of public money, like the plan e of the socialist government that, unfortunately, did not serve to get spain out of the crisis of 2008, but quite the opposite. european aid proves, once again, that the european union is a success story, as confirmed by the covid vaccine, a vaccine for all europeans. europe must successfully meet the challenge of the virus, which has also taught us that, in the face of populisms such as the one triggered by brexit, the best recipe is the unity of all europeans. we must also tackle challenges such as immigration together. i therefore regret that this house has refused to discuss the dramatic situation in the canary islands. we don't want her to become another lesbos. this parliament cannot look the other way. this union was not built to ignore serious challenges, such as the drama of immigration, but, on the contrary, to face them together in unity, coordination and firm defence of the values that have made it possible to build and keep alive the european union.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, mr michel, this year has been brutal. the virus has claimed the lives of tens of thousands, the livelihoods of millions and the freedom of all our fellow citizens. during the worst weeks of march and april, we feared that the virus would also spread to europe. in those terrible weeks of spring each nation acted on its own. never before has our union faced such a threat. well, today we can proudly say that the european union has risen to the challenge. we're entering 2021 more united than ever. this parliament can be proud of its work on the recovery plan, the multiannual budget and the rule of law defence mechanism. we must now ensure that europeans' resources are well invested, that states meet european conditions: respect the rule of law, make reforms and invest in a cleaner, more digital future. mrs von der leyen, may our work not be in vain. i ask - no, i demand - that the commission has the courage and the determination to defend our values against governments that challenge them. millions of europeans depend on this recovery package. and europe depends on these values. don't let us down.
madam president, the arrogance you see here, the rechtsstaat, the rule of law... but nowhere, nowhere in any treaty does it say that this parliament or the commission is going to dictate the national policy of hungary or poland. it doesn't put it anywhere! and here he is insisting on wanting to do it. the council has certainly given us a good lesson, because the member states have neutralised attempts to use the agreement on the multiannual financial framework as a political instrument. all this immense money, which is going to be used largely for social engineering, was also intended to be used for political blackmail, and that, in part, has been neutralized. but i see that you insist on it, that you still want to do it. if you are really very concerned about the rule of law, go to spain, where there is a communist penetration from ibero-america of narco-communism that is undermining, breaking and destroying spanish democracy every day, liquidating allí sí the rule of law, without anyone here saying anything. a little more respect, please, for the truth.
in writing. the agreement reached on 10 and 11 december 2020 at the european council confirms an important milestone in the eu by approving the mff, the recovery plan and the timetable for the introduction of new own resources together with the conditionality mechanism of respect for democratic values and the rule of law. the last obstacle was overcome on 10 and 11 december, when the hungarian-polish veto on the multiannual budget was withdrawn, but this was achieved by a clear overreach by the european council. in paragraph i.2 (c) of the opinion, the commission is instructed that the regulation which makes the disbursement of european funding conditional on respect for the rule of law should not apply until the court of justice has ruled on a possible appeal. this instruction is a clear violation of articles 15 (prohibition on the commission from taking instructions from other institutions) and 17 (non-legislative function of the european council), and the european parliament must take appropriate action. the conference on the future of europe will have to consider how to redirect the intergovernmental excesses that have been observed since the euro crisis.
madam president, allow me to address you in this debate not as a politician, but as a pharmacist, who from the first minute of the pandemic has been on the front line, precisely, in the fight against the coronavirus. these last few months have been a nightmare. perhaps from the walls of this chamber we have only had to endure restaurants being locked and wearing these masks, but in the real world we have suffered a real hell. hundreds of patients have passed through my pharmacy absolutely terrified because they didn't know whether, depending on their pathology, they could have, if they were infected, the possibility or the misfortune of dying. there have been thousands of paramedics who have been on the front line of fire without the proper protective equipment, and many of my colleagues have died. and in the meantime we were in this house debating alleged emergencies which, from the point of view of reality, have only been on some occasions, the best, worrying. the coronavirus is an emergency. that's why, ladies and gentlemen, the vaccine is the end of the nightmare. the logistical challenge of transporting and preserving them is unprecedented on our continent since the second world war. so that is the real test of the european project. ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it is time for us all to rise to the occasion.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr minister, security is an essential pillar of the contract with the citizens. and it is true that we can only guarantee that commitment today if we move towards a security union, but at the pace and with the ambition required to respond to the threats to the freedoms of europeans. mr vice-president, we are on the right track, as this debate shows, and we must have the momentum to continue along the right track. we have identified the challenges: terrorism, which fuels ethnic and religious hatred and amplifies dissemination on the net; organised crime, which is expanding its activity and has fully entered the online world; disinformation, as a destabilising strategy of external and internal actors in the union; the risks themselves associated with pressure on our external borders; and, of course, a new online full of challenges. the perception of 'let's face it' security benefits extremism and feeds the narrative that wants to discredit democratic institutions and the rule of law by presenting them as weak and incapable of providing the security and trust that citizens demand. we have the instruments. they've been mentioned here. we have to strengthen them. and we must be very aware that the security union we aspire to has to start by being that, a union, a closer union that shares resources, capabilities, objectives and strategies on the basis of mutual trust and with the shared purpose of better serving our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a total failure on illegal immigration and islamic terrorism: this is the result achieved by europe, by the italian government, pd - 5 stars. you have failed to combat illegal immigration, because you have turned italy into the refugee camp of europe. you have failed in the fight against islamic terrorism because the terrorist who in nice slaughtered three christians in a church is an illegal immigrant who landed in italy and arrived in france without controls. do you remember commissioner gentiloni when he said that terrorists do not arrive by boat? gentlemen and the false leftist good-wishers have been refuted by the facts. and not content, you give our money to the turkey of the dictator erdogan, who arms the islamic terrorists who hit our cities. let me tell you something. you're crazy and you're taking italy and europe into a ditch. make a big mea culpa and remember that the italians are tired of your chatter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, last july the european commission presented a strategy for security in europe, which sets out a number of priorities, some of which i share: the fight against terrorism, organised crime and islamist radicalisation. however, the commission still fails to realise that any security strategy will remain ineffective if we do not immediately implement legislative measures to proceed with the immediate expulsion from european territory of immigrants who have entered our borders illegally. how can the commission ensure the protection of european citizens when this year almost one hundred thousand illegal immigrants have already entered european territory, forty thousand in spain alone? i would remind you that two of the islamist attacks which have shocked europe the most - the killing of three catholics in the cathedral of nice and the beheading of a teacher in france - were committed by false refugees. moreover, commissioner, how can we guarantee measures to combat organised crime if we do not immediately implement a new and more effective european order and measures to recognise judicial and police decisions? the other day we saw how the belgian courts again refused to hand over to spain the so-called rapper valtònyc, who, in his songs, announced or called for the death of spanish civil guards. if this is the strategy for combating radicalisation, then unfortunately we are turning the streets of europe into a real battleground.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, it is terrible to have to say in the 21st century that women have not achieved equality; that if we continue at this rate we will have to wait another 84 years just to get paid the same as men for the same work; that we have not ratified the istanbul convention and have not got the directive on gender-based violence that we so want; that the directive on equality has been stalled for years in the european union; and, worst of all, that we cannot guarantee that the little progress achieved will be sustained over time. we need institutions committed to women, strong, coherent and effective responses to the far right and to religious and conservative groups, who use the argument of gender ideology to violate the rights we have fought for for centuries. either the council commits itself and adopts a coordinated strategy, or we will be the generation that is ashamed of living better than their mothers and daughters. because we're going to condemn them to the 28th century. that is why there must be a configuration in the council on equality which brings together the ministers and secretaries of state in the field, as is the case in other areas. it's a frontier moment for you. it's the time when feminism is in the streets and in the institutions, but misogyny is also in the streets and in the institutions. so it's time to act. it takes 'yes' to believe it, political will to show that the statements we are fed are not empty words. the tools are there. use them, use them at once.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i think we really can say that the european parliament has profoundly influenced the revision of this olaf regulation. you have supported all the commission proposals to strengthen the effectiveness of investigations, as well as our objective to base the relationship between olaf and the eppo on the strongest complementarity. in addition, you have pushed to ensure that olaf’s strong investigative tools co—exist with stronger procedural guarantees. in fact, the revised legislation establishes a controller to handle complaints by persons concerned. it allows the person under investigation to assess the final report under certain conditions and provides for respect of higher procedural safeguards when olaf supports the eppo. these amendments should increase the protection of persons subject to investigation and also increase the reliability of olaf’s work even though the rules on admissibility of olaf—collected evidence in subsequent criminal procedures will go unchanged. we should soon start implementing a new financial framework accompanied by an ambitious recovery plan. it’s crucial that the union will be ready to protect european union citizens’ money, ensuring that money is spent properly and effectively. having said this, also in response to mr freund and others, i think we have now provided the necessary financial means to the different organisations. in particular, we constantly hear that the eppo should get more money. i think even before they start working they have the same staff numbers as olaf, because you have to include the decentralised prosecutors and then you certainly arrive at the same number. and may i say that the original concept of the eppo was to focus very much on the work of the decentralised prosecutors, but now we see a very strong headquarters. again, i think we should see how it works, how it comes into operational daily work and then, of course, we have to adapt to the needs and see what are the future needs. i was very clear in the discussions. there are opportunities like amending budgets, etc., where we can, so to say, react in case there are further needs. but first, i think, we should now really pay attention so that the eppo can finally start – as soon as possible, hopefully in spring – its work, and then i think we can have a further assessment about the future needs. please be assured that we have every interest not only to protect our money, but also to get it back in the case of fraud and criminal cases. so indeed – and i think this was said by ms cseh and others – this is something which should really pay off in the way that we get the money back. both these institutions, but also others dealing with such issues, are indeed properly equipped, because they need it. we will certainly take care that at the end of the day we get the money back – and certainly more than we have to invest into the staffing and the financing of these institutions. but on the other hand, we have to see that everything is in balance and we really lead also by example. finally, we are talking today primarily about olaf and that’s why i would again like to highlight that the revised olaf regulation is a key element of the new eu anti—fraud architecture that we are building to achieve that objective. this is not only about the cooperation between olaf and eppo. here, of course, it’s about the investigative and prosecutorial powers of eppo which are now there, but we should not forget there is also europol, and its analytical capacity has to be used. the same applies to eurojust, which definitely has a coordinating role. so the reformed olaf is a centrepiece, if you like, of this architecture to carry out even more effective investigations. what we have to achieve is proper coordination, cooperation amongst all these institutions. it’s not only about the two, and we should not forget europol and eurojust and cooperation with these organisations so as to have complementarity and avoid overlapping. this also would contribute to more effectiveness of these european institutions and instruments.
as regards the marinescu report, no proposals to reject the council's position have been tabled, nor any amendments under rules 67 and 68. the draft law is therefore deemed to be adopted. this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. as reported by europol, organised crime is already at work trying to exploit the many opportunities offered by the recovery fund and the various european structural funds provided to support member states in coping with the pandemic crisis. in this alarming context, the european union must equip itself with effective law enforcement bodies, and the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office (eppo). in the fight against fraud, which is detrimental to the union's budget, it is certainly a key stage in the european anti-fraud architecture. it was therefore equally essential to update regulation (eu) no 883/2013 governing the european anti-fraud office (olaf), whose task is to investigate illegal behaviour such as fraud and corruption, which often represent the first step of more complex criminal schemes to the detriment of the union budget. thanks to the commitment shown in the complex negotiations, which i had the honour of following in person, i can say with satisfaction that the new regulatory framework, which extends olaf's legal base and increases its investigative powers, will ensure close cooperation, exchange of information and complementarity of investigations with the european public prosecutor's office, but will also represent a significant step in further strengthening the rule of law in the european area of freedom, security and justice.
the next item is the report of mr kosma złotowski, drawn up on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the 2019 agenda of the committee on petitions (2020/2044(ini)) (a9-0263/2020). members are informed that no requested speeches or blue card questions will be allowed in the debate during this part-session. i would also point out that the speakers can be reached remotely from the liaison offices of the member states.
the rapporteur. ladies and gentlemen! the committee on petitions plays a special role in the work of our parliament. it is the only forum where eu citizens can not only present their problems and the challenges they face, but, more importantly, have a personal say in committee meetings. it is always invaluable for democracy when the victims can speak for themselves about their plight. we regret that this difficult year has deprived us of the opportunity to meet the petitioners in person. peti is also the most interdisciplinary of all committees. the programme is drawn up by the petitioners themselves who come to us. among the top topics in 2019 were the environment, transport, children's rights, the plight of the disabled and the many concerns on both sides of the brexit channel. the number of petitions filed increased by more than 11% compared to 2018. more petitions were also found admissible. unfortunately, still more than 30% of petitions did not directly relate to the competence or area of activity of the european union, which means that they could not be considered. the lack of awareness among citizens of the division of competences between brussels and the member states is a challenge to the process of discussing and responding to petitions that we will have to deal with in the coming years. cooperation with other parliamentary committees is a key element in the efficiency and effectiveness of the activities of the committee on petitions. in 2019, 65 petitions were sent to other committees for their opinions and 351 were forwarded for information. the input and expertise of colleagues from other committees is therefore necessary to respond fully to the questions and requests of the petitioners. among the important initiatives that have been indirectly inspired by the petitioners going to the european parliament is the proposal for a directive on the abolition of seasonal time changes and the repeal of directive 2000/84. the committee on petitions prepared an opinion for the report on this matter, which was based on numerous complaints from citizens calling for the abolition of this burdensome obligation. the commission has also received a number of petitions on brexit in 2019 and has also received a number of petitions on the protection of the rights of eu citizens before and after the uk's withdrawal. the committee on petitions has done a very good job here and its work has helped to ensure that citizens' rights remain one of parliament's main priorities in the negotiations between brussels and london. to sum up the work of the committee on petitions in 2019, two institutions that play a very important role in the process of responding to petitions should be mentioned. it is, of course, the european commission which provides us with its expertise in the hearings and discussions with the petitioners, but special thanks go to the european ombudsman. the best proof that this partnership is working was the re-election of ms emily o'reilly to the post last december. the committee on petitions was responsible for the process of analysing and hearing all the candidates. 2019 was a challenging year for the committee on petitions, due to a break in our work during the elections and the constitution of the new parliament. but i'm convinced that the time we had at our disposal was very well spent. this is due, of course, to the work of our president, mrs dolores montserrat, and the commitment of all the members of the committee, but also to the professionalism of the staff of our secretariat, who deserve our sincere thanks. i hope that parliament will also give a positive assessment of their work and accept the report presented by the committee on petitions on the activities of the committee over the past year.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i thank the rapporteur, mr złotowski, for this comprehensive report, which will contribute to further strengthening relations between the commission and the committee on petitions (peti). as discussed during our structured dialogue two weeks ago, we are constantly working to improve our cooperation. i strongly believe the ability to petition is a fundamental right for all citizens and a key element of parliamentary democracy. today, more than ever against the backdrop of the ongoing covid-19 crisis, petitions are an effective channel for direct contact and open dialogue concerning problems affecting the daily lives of europeans. even before the pandemic, the use of petitions was on the increase, up by 11.23% in 2019 compared to the previous year. this was due in part to the more visible and accessible european parliament petitions web portal. many of the petitions were in the environmental, health and social sectors. let me assure you that the commission takes the work of this committee very seriously. we continue our efforts to improve the speed, quality and pertinence of our contributions to your replies to petitioners’ concerns. this includes the modernisation of our it tools for handling petitions and streamlining the underlying procedures. in addition, the commission is increasingly represented at your meetings by commissioners and high-ranking officials, especially when it comes to sensitive petitions. to put it in numbers, in the first year of our mandate, two commissioners, three directors-general, four deputy directors-general, 10 directors and 22 heads of unit participated in debates in the peti committee. this trend will continue in the coming year. i take note of the section of your report on the issue of petitions and infringement procedures. as you know, the primary purpose of the infringement procedure is to make sure that member states comply with eu law. it cannot be used to alter the specific legal situation of an individual or provide for individual means of redress. therefore, we believe that individual complaints pointing to the incorrect application of eu law are often better addressed by the appropriate mechanisms at national level. this approach leaves the commission more able to focus its resources on addressing systemic issues. i can assure you that we remain fully committed to fruitful cooperation in addressing infringement-related petitions. in this spirit, the commission welcomes the committee’s opinion on identifying potential systemic breaches of eu law with the petitions it receives. however, the decision on whether or not to investigate and pursue an instance of suspected non-compliance with eu law must remain within the commission’s discretionary power. the commission holds the burden of proof in bringing cases before the court of justice, and it must focus its efforts on issues that will bring the most benefit to eu citizens. i stress that, where petitions are not within the remit of the european union, we should be very honest and upfront in explaining this to petitioners.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank my colleague, mr kosma złotowski, and the other shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in this report. we have managed to produce an objective report that has not been politicised unnecessarily, and the work of the committee in 2019 is very well reflected. petitions are a sign of a mature democracy. any citizen, regardless of social status, can complain without fear of problems in the practical application of union law. petitions are a seismograph of public sentiment and at the same time a monitoring instrument that helps to strengthen the transparency and accountability of the institutions. the committee on petitions is the closest thing to the citizen in the day-to-day running of parliament. parliament received 1 357 petitions in 2019. this shows that eu citizens and residents continued to make use of the right to petition despite the break in the european elections. the number of users supporting one or more petitions on parliament's online portal for petitions has even increased compared to 2018, reaching a total of 28 075, which is very encouraging. what can we do better? it is a bit unfortunate that petitioners are still not sufficiently informed about the reasons for the inadmissibility of a petition. this can be a learning process for both sides: for us, but also, and above all, for the applicant. the citizens can learn from this to do better next time. a continuous public debate on the union's fields of activity is therefore essential to raise public awareness of the right to petition the european parliament. the committee on petitions should therefore also have an active press and communications service and an active social media presence to increase the visibility of the committee's work. it is up to us to deal with the petitions as quickly as possible and to give appropriate answers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not always clear to the citizen whether his problem is at the regional, national or eu level. here the committee on petitions needs to communicate and cooperate better with the national authorities, committees on petitions and ombudsmen. i would like to thank the secretariat of the committee on petitions and my colleagues for their work. i wish everyone a merry christmas and a healthy new year. and as i always say elsewhere, there is still much to be done, let us get on with it!
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, article 227 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides, as one of the fundamental rights of citizens, for the ability to exercise their right to petition this house on matters affecting them within the european union. this gives enormous value to the committee on petitions, which is an instrument of citizen empowerment and, at the same time, a democratic instrument that defends the european values that inspire the union. and it certainly also gives us the opportunity to know better the problems of the citizens. we must therefore firmly defend the value of the committee on petitions and do so without undermining any rights, giving citizens a fair hearing under the rules we have given ourselves, serving as a platform or amplifier for the voices of those who are not always heard, those who are not attended to, those who suffer injustices or inequalities due to negligence or indifference. and we must do so in a balanced way, in accordance with objective criteria and not in the name of other tactical interests which can only harm european citizens. this house has passed important measures, the result of citizen petitions. the resolution on additional funding for biomedical research on myalgic encephalomyelitis, the result of a petition submitted in 2019 by the affected persons themselves, is a very relevant example. we have also succeeded in putting a stop to abuses by some airlines or other abuses in the area of infringement of european workers' rights. we've also put batteries in institutions, administrations. and in this connection, and to conclude, i would like to thank the european commission for the work it is doing and extend my thanks to commissioner dalli, also for her involvement. i would even like to ask you for a little more so that we can speed up the processing of certain requests that require urgency. thank you, too, to the colleagues and the house services for their annual work.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we write the peti annual report not just to present data, but above all to learn from it. the most frequent topics of petitions were again last year the environment, fundamental rights and justice. so these are issues to which we must pay particular attention. we also see that 30% of petitions are still considered inadmissible. this shows that many citizens are not clear about the areas in which the eu is active and that we need to educate them. it is also a sign of great confidence and hope in the european parliament that citizens turn to us with all kinds of problems. we must live up to that trust; we must not abuse it. the committee on petitions is a bridge between citizens and decision-makers. it would therefore be sensible to involve the committee on petitions directly in the legislative process, so that the good lessons learned from the petitions are not lost. the committee on petitions also deals not only with petitions but also with european citizens' initiatives in some cases, and it is important that they are taken seriously. the fact that a million signatures are collected from at least seven member states is a sign of the importance of the issue and of the expectations that many citizens have of the european union. if the elected representatives of the european parliament support this proposal, then the commission should see this as a clear mandate to present a legislative proposal. i thank rapporteur kosma złotowski and all my colleagues for their cooperation and i ask for your support for this successful report without further amendments. thank you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the greens/ european free alliance group fully supports the report as voted on in the committee on petitions. as already mentioned, precisely our priorities on environmental matters and fundamental rights are the topics where we have received the most petitions. one word on petitions on fundamental rights: to our regret, the famous article 51 of the charter on fundamental rights says it is applicable only as regards eu law and, therefore, we are very satisfied that the report urges the commission to take steps to ensure that the interpretation of the scope of article 51 is as coherent and broad as possible, and recalls that the expectations of most petitioners in relation to the rights conferred on them by the charter are high and go beyond the current scope of application. another key problem is the european citizens’ initiative. we know that there are very few successful petitions and that is why the latest one we discussed this monday on the minority safepack was very important. however, regrettably, even successful petitions do not result in legislative proposals from the commission. the report also mentions this problem. we call on the commission to initiate a legislative proposal on the basis of any successful european citizens’ initiatives that are supported by the european parliament. to our regret, two large groups in parliament have asked for a split vote on this proposal and this sentence, as it is very troublesome. if this statement does not make it into the report as voted on by the committee on petitions, this will be a big mistake. i repeat – as mentioned in the report – only 43% of eu citizens trust the european union. this is a very bad number and if we just dismiss the most important applications made to parliament, that is the european citizens’ initiatives bearing more than one million signatures, representing at least seven member states, this will be a big failure.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, madam commissioner, i cannot rise to this podium without first denouncing that a new attack on the life and dignity of the human being will be perpetrated in spain by the adoption of a cruel and inhumane law such as the euthanasia law, the death law. this year will also go down in the history of the committee on petitions for the ignominy of having seen how certain parliamentary groups in this house opposed the clarification of 379 murders carried out by the terrorist, separatist and far-left eta gang, including those who are part of the government of spain and have the duty to defend the memory, dignity, truth and justice for all the victims. the course also ended with another request to the european parliament to unravel one of the biggest political scandals, which is the possible existence of a criminal network for the abuse and sexual harassment of minors in institutions run by the administration in the balearic islands. because all victims matter, because violence has no gender, we will continue to be vigilant to expose the hypocrisy of all groups who tear their clothes in the face of fake violence and yet remain cowards and accomplices when the violence is real and causes death and desolation.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, we are generally satisfied with the agreed text, as it largely reflects the work of the committee on petitions in the 2019 financial year. however, it is clear and obvious that citizens still do not know the scope of the right to petition, its mechanisms and the union's competences, and that the committee on petitions needs to adopt a more powerful communication strategy. we also welcome the fact that the text recognises the need for the european citizens' initiative to be considered for participation, as well as the call for it to be a much more dynamic and attractive mechanism for groups and citizens in general. and since we are talking about mechanisms of participation and direct democracy, i would like to take this opportunity to stress the need for the stateless nations of europe to have a european framework established for the free exercise of their right to decide their future. finally, the report does not mention one of the most demanding and controversial requests: the denial of the right to be members of this house that has been suffered by the catalan meps, a right that this committee has repeatedly denied. it is one of the best examples of the excessive political hand in the decision to close or keep open petitions, especially in this new legislature.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr złotowski, and also, in particular, the rapporteur for the socialist alternative, my colleague and friend, mrs cristina maestre martín de almagro, for her excellent work on this report on the deliberations of the committee on petitions in 2019. it has been said before, but it should be reiterated: the right to petition is one of the fundamental rights of citizens of the union and is a key element in the empowerment of european citizens and civil society - including organised ones - and in the political strengthening of parliament within the european institutions. it is worth highlighting a fact from this report: in 2019, despite the coronavirus pandemic, the number of petitions increased by more than 11% compared to the previous year, in such important matters as the environment, brexit or the exercise of rights or disability. this highlights the issues that matter and concern citizens, who also demand greater action from the european union. as the commissioner said, there are areas where the european union has no competence, but when citizens call for action, they are also sending a political message about what, in her view, the european union should also start working on. and in this sense, i think that the conference on the future of europe is the place to reflect on what new powers the european union should exercise. commissioner, you know that before the pandemic, no one thought of europe as the framework for action against public health crises, and now we have launched the health union under article 168 of the treaty. but we can go further. the work of the committee on petitions exposes breaches and bad practices by member states, and in this connection we must also remind the commission and the european council of their obligation to respect the letter of articles 15 and 17 of the treaty on european union.
madam president, europe certainly cannot tolerate reprisals against those who hold legitimate meetings with european diplomats or against those who fight for the defence of human rights or make use of freedom of expression precisely now - as mrs neumann has said - when ten years have passed since the arab spring, which was precisely a demand for freedom and democracy. i want to express my solidarity with patrick zaki and his family and to join my voice to the call of this parliament to demand - and you must do so together with the commission and the high representative - his immediate release, madam commissioner. it is inconceivable that an erasmus mundus student should be imprisoned and tortured for his research work. but let's see, we heard the gentlemen of the far right congratulate al-sisi, they are delighted with al-sisi because he fights against islamic terrorism. and i would say to you, gentlemen of the far right, you are accustomed to saying a lot of absurdities, but really, what does mr patrick zaki have to do with the fight against islamic terrorism? what does gulio regeni, who was killed by mr al-sisi's security forces, have to do with the fight against islamic terrorism? how can you say such things? how can the president of the french republic, whom we consider to be a europeanist leader and therefore a defender of the enlightenment and human rights, award the grand cross of the legion of honour to dictator al-sisi?
madam president, our colleagues on the far right tell us that we should congratulate the dictator al-sisi because what he is doing is fighting terrorism. we cannot accept, we cannot allow that crimes are being disguised as a heroic struggle, that this is being used as a smokescreen to cover up mass arrests, torture and murder. gentlemen, what did giulio regeni have to do with terrorism? and he was arrested and tortured, and his body was found in a ditch six days later, with a brain hemorrhage, because they were over the torture. what does the lgbtq rights activist have to do with terrorism? and he's been detained and tortured since february. what does ms mahienur al-masri, a human rights lawyer, have to do with terrorism? and she's been arrested three times in the last two years for that one mr. macron gives the legion of honor medal to. we must break with these hypocrites.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, in october the high commissioner asked us to take a holistic approach to iran. this was particularly so in relation to preserving the nuclear agreement, which i agree with, and the result, of course, was a triumph for european diplomacy. the other side of the coin is the human rights record in iran, which is not pretty – particularly the case of the 2012 sakharov prize winner nasrin sotoudeh. we have a duty to follow all laureates of this prize and to speak out when they are being persecuted. we did this in the case of nasrin in 2018, and it is deeply regrettable that we must return to renew our call on the iranian authorities to release her from her arbitrary detention. today we call for the unconditional release of nasrin sotoudeh with renewed urgency. the people of iran are struggling to battle the covid—19 pandemic; prisoners – not just in iran but around the world – are at an increased risk of infection. nasrin unfortunately contracted the virus recently while she was granted temporary release. she was ordered to return to prison again against the advice of medical experts. shameful – because this has the potential to be a fatal decision. i’m also dismayed by the continuously high use of capital punishment in iran. this is not acceptable under any circumstances. certainly a journalist should not be executed for expressing their views, and laureates should not be tortured and imprisoned for peacefully working to preserve human rights. i call on iran to call a halt to this practice immediately. while we focus on the case of nasrin, we must also think of all the other peaceful campaigners and activists, some of whom worked with her and who are facing a similar plight in iran. tá súil agam go n-éireoidh linn nasrin, agus daoine nach í, a shaoradh agus a thabhairt ar ais dá dteaghlach roimh nollaig.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, yesterday we awarded the sakharov prize to the movement for democracy in belarus. nasrin sotoudeh has been our sakharov prize since 2012, and since 2012, nasrin sotoudeh has been in prison. nasrin sotoudeh i took a picture that i can't show you , it's a smiling woman, a strong woman. we had the opportunity, during the two weeks of respite granted to him by the islamic republic of iran, to have him in the droi subcommittee of this parliament. she is still a strong woman, a smiling woman, but she is a woman terribly weakened by covid and the imprisonment she is going through. nasrin sotoudeh, as we've said, has stood up for women's rights, men's rights, the right to justice in this country. we demand that any dialogue with iran be conditional upon the release of nasrin sotoudeh. i think about her husband and children. you have to be brave.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, this is a special year coming to an end. 2020 is gone and everything has changed. everything has changed, or almost. in tehran, it is business as usual: repression and executions inexorably continue. we were writing this resolution earlier this week about nasrin sotoudeh, our 2012 sakharov prize winner, when we learned on monday that a young woman was sentenced to ten years in prison for posting a controversial selfie of angelina jolie on instagram. two days earlier, two cliffs up in the barbaric, the mullahs had rouhollah zam executed, in a rush, after a mock trial. the reporter was guilty of telling the truth. the journalist was guilty of uncovering corruption. for tehran, business as usual and no reason to worry about any consequences for relations with the european union. yet, on the same day, the european union cancelled a europe-iran economic forum. we must be very clear about this: withdraw our investments, impose economic sanctions, target those responsible. it's not too late to release nasrin sotoudeh. it is not too late for professor ahmadreza djalali, who is awaiting execution in prison. 2020 is over, that has to change.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. president, today we are demanding the release of the 2012 sakharov prize winner, lawyer nasrin sotoudeh, who is imprisoned in her homeland, iran, but above all we are denouncing the behavior of the regime that tortures iranians, invades the region, promotes terrorism, proclaims to want to exterminate the jews, like hitler, and threatens with its nuclear program the peace of the whole world. and it penetrates and sabotages democracies in latin america and here in europe, in spain, by funding a party in government, podemos. i also denounce the european condescension towards this murderous regime. last december, the regime murdered 1,500 young people in its streets who were demanding freedom. two months later, mr borrell, in tehran, was giving the executioners' dome a smiling hand, looking for european business. and, in this house, i think the majority was in favor of lifting the embargo and running back to iran to do business, while insulting trump for maintaining the blockade on that criminal regime. so the opposite of what you do is the right thing to do. let's go to a real encirclement of the regime, a firm front with the united states, so that iran knows that it has to stop doing what it's doing.
madam president, i think we’re facing two basic problems: one is to reach an agreement before the end of the transition period, while the other is to allow sufficient time for parliamentary scrutiny. this second point is very important because i’m afraid that – at least according to the public information we have in the media – this seems to have been an afterthought for our negotiators, because it is never mentioned that we need to get this agreement before the end of the year but also to allow sufficient time for parliamentary scrutiny. so, i think this should now be made a clear part of this last step of the negotiations. if there is not sufficient time for an agreement before the end of the year with sufficient parliamentary scrutiny, we have to make sure there is no chaos on 1 january, and we have to make part of the negotiations agreeing to maintain the status quo on both sides of the channel while we complete the negotiations and parliamentary scrutiny.
madam president, today we mark the end of a chapter. four and a half years after the brexit vote blindness has finally triumphed. even before the divorce is complete, we can see the looming catastrophe. lorries queue for 24 hours in dover. tourists will lose insurance. delays and passport stamps on eurostar. dear british friends, is this what you voted for? passport stamps and lorry queues? this moment is a victory for europe. there can be no clearer vindication of the european project. the farce that it is a european nation, alone outside of the eu, is being exposed. to my british friends i say, politics may change but geography will not change. the future shall only be less kind to a small island on the periphery of the world’s largest trading bloc. i’m afraid you’ll soon discover that you’re neither having your cake nor eating it. and when you inevitably come back, there will be no pound, no preferential treatment. these are the consequences of the choices you made. until then, good luck.
madam president, as we reach the end of this turbulent year with last-minute negotiations, i welcome yesterday’s conclusions on the withdrawal agreement, notably guaranteeing the rights of the eu and the uk citizens. it is vital to preserve the rights of citizens currently in the european union and the uk, but i regret that the highest price will be paid by future citizens. the uk has been a member of the european union for 47 years, helping with the development of our union despite conflicting positions on some issues. however, time is running out and we as a european union need to preserve our values, commitments and our integrity. i expect the uk side to respect this as well. finally, allow me to stress the role of the european parliament and the need for scrutiny, bearing in mind our tremendous patience so far. however, only mutual trust can build sustainable bridges for our future cooperation in the ever-challenging future.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, first i really would like to thank you for your continuous support and close cooperation. michel barnier, myself and our teams always appreciated your availability, your interest and also your detailed knowledge of the subject. i fully understand the concerns, the points raised by honourable meps, mr mcallister, ms garcía pérez, mr hansen, ms hübner, about the importance to maintain this level of transparency as high as possible until the last moments. you know very well that the commission published its draft agreement and all additional text and documents submitted to the uk in the course of negotiations. as you know, both michel and myself, but also our teams, have always been ready to brief you in all details. we know that only through the utmost transparency and dialogue we can earn your trust, we can earn your support and i also know that it was thanks to this trust and support that we built this unbreakable european unity which was so important and is still is very important in these negotiations. i would just plead to do the same which we did in this marathon negotiation. let’s work together and let’s walk this last most difficult mile in this united approach, being fully aware of our priorities and i would like to reassure mr lamberts and mr lange that your support is absolutely crucial. you consent is decisive. the consent of this house is a key to ratification of the deal, and therefore, i also want to thank you for your support in these exceptional, demanding and difficult – for all of us – circumstances. many of the honourable members raised the issue of full respect for social, environmental and labour standards. almost all those who intervened highlighted the importance of fair competition. mr scholz, ms loiseau, and many others, i really would like to assure you that we will deliver on all of these priorities, because i fully understand how important it is for the european union, how important it is for the citizens you represent in this house. i was listening very carefully to mr sikorski and mr silva pereira about the concerns they have on the issue of the rights of the eu citizens, and i want to assure all of you that there’s almost five million people, eu and uk citizens, who are most directly affected by brexit because of the residence rights, that they will be fully protected. i would say the rights of citizens and full implementation of the ireland and northern ireland protocol being the most important issues which we’ve been negotiating day and night with our uk partners under the withdrawal agreement, and i’m glad to say that on this we have absolute full consensus. mr warborn, mr kelly and mr schirdewan have been highlighting the issue of smes, of fisheries and other sectors which might be severely affected by brexit and, therefore, i’m glad to say that the brexit adjustment reserve is being finalised as a part of the next multiannual finance perspective. i hope and believe that some of the five billion euros which are aimed at countering the possible adverse consequences in the member states will be able to compensate the sectors which have been affected the most by the departure of the united kingdom from the european union. as you know very well, europe never leaves their people and their businesses behind, to be fair, to be socially just, this core european value, and i am absolutely sure that we will demonstrate it in this case as well. i also understand the calls of many of you to remind us of the importance of the eu—uk relationship, of the eu—uk friendship between our peoples and i would say that it is exactly because of this that we are engaged in this most comprehensive agreement, to be negotiated in the shortest time in the european union’s history. if you allow me, i would like to conclude with repeating the words of ursula von der leyen and michel barnier, that this is now the moment of truth. there is a narrow path to agreement. our negotiators are currently, now, right at this moment, exploring every possible way how to walk this difficult last mile and how to push the negotiations over the finishing line with positive results. so let us wish them well. let us wish success in the endeavour so that we can conclude this very difficult chapter and open a new one in our eu—uk relationship. madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this very important and lively debate and i also would like to wish all of you a merry christmas and a peaceful new year.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the authorisation.
in writing. the state of play in the negotiations between the eu and the uk on a future trade agreement is worrying. the latest signals received indicate significant deadlocks that risk affecting the approval of this agreement so necessary for both parties. unfortunately, the lack of transparency on the negotiations that have taken place raises serious questions and does not allow the european parliament and citizens to analyse in detail the elements discussed and to be able to support the negotiations with a view to their swift approval by the european legislator. more worryingly, eu member states are not sufficiently prepared for a no-deal scenario. the business environment, academic cooperation or european citizens are at risk of being seriously affected. the right-wing government in romania has done nothing to prepare for this scenario. there is no legal regulation adopted, no financial support package for companies affected by the situation, no crisis support cell for citizens, absolutely nothing that the eu has recommended. i call on the negotiators and decision-makers on both sides to get more involved in resolving this situation. nobody can afford a failure but at the same time, nobody can afford a bad deal. the solution is in our hands, in the will and the ability to move forward and have this trade agreement.
ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the results of the second round of voting today. final vote, second round of voting: the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation of human rights in egypt. report by mr pierre larrouturou and mr olivier chastel on the new general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021 - approved. the council position of 14 december 2020 was approved by parliament without amendments. in accordance with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2021 can therefore be considered to be concluded. i therefore declare the budget of the european union for the financial year 2021 definitively adopted. i invite the two rapporteurs to join me in the budget signing ceremony. (the president signed the budget) we now come to the results of the votes on the four emergency measures which will apply in the event of no agreement with the united kingdom. common rules on basic links for road freight and passenger transport at the end of the transitional period following the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union, proposed by the commission - approved. common rules on air transport connectivity at the end of the transition period in relation to the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union - approved. air safety at the end of the transition period in relation to the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union - approved. fishing authorisations for union vessels in united kingdom waters and fishing operations of united kingdom vessels in union waters - approved. before i close the session of the european parliament, i would like to wish all my colleagues and of course their families and loved ones a very merry christmas and a very happy holidays.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
