the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the situation in iran and iraq following the recent escalation (2020/2506 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all, let me thank this parliament for its ongoing concern about the situation in the two countries that feature in this debate, as well as in the wider region. it’s not an understatement to say that the recent tensions in iraq and in the surrounding region have the potential to erase the hard-won progress of recent years, thereby affecting the lives of millions of people. allow me to begin this debate by stating one thing very clearly. i am committed, as high representative, and, as the european union, we are all committed to working to stop the current cycle of violence in iraq, which must cease before it spirals out of control once again. this is also why i convened an extraordinary foreign affairs ministers council on friday – coming back from croatia sooner than expected – from which i received a strong mandate to carry out all necessary diplomatic efforts to contribute to de—escalation in the region, support political dialogue and promote a political regional solution. these are the precise words of the conclusions of the council. the president of the european council and the president of the european commission have also been fully engaged in these de—escalation efforts and this is how it should be. during the past six weeks – in fact already since last year – we have seen an increasing escalation of tension in iraq, which culminated in the killing of iranian general soleimani by a us drone attack, followed by attacks by iran against bases in iraq housing troops fighting daesh, which thankfully did not harm anyone. while it may appear as if, for the moment, the current situation will not escalate further, we, and i personally, have since the very beginning of this crisis been active in urging calm, restraint and de—escalation to all of the relevant parties inside and outside the region, from iran to iraq, the uae, the united states, turkey, russia, china and others. we want to ensure that everyone with influence uses this influence to good effect and that we reach a temporary calm. why are we so concerned about the current crisis and how it can affect the region? well, the current situation in iraq and the risk of further military escalation could jeopardise the substantial achievement in stability and, in particular, the fight against daesh in recent years. the current situation could generate a number of dangerous consequences. the resumption of daesh would have a catastrophic humanitarian impact, possibly leading to a dramatic increase in the number of displaced persons. we must avoid that at all costs. for this to occur, preserving the achievements the global coalition has won collectively in the fight against daesh is imperative. such a situation would also risk diverting attention from the necessary political reforms that iraq must undertake, starting with government formation – there is still a caretaker government – and the need to tackle essential social challenges, including fighting corruption. we have already invested significantly in iraqi stability, reconstruction and development with the financial support of more than eur 1.2 billion since 2014. this has focused on humanitarian aid, support for internally displaced persons, stabilisation in the liberated areas, civilian security sector reform through the csdp eu assistance mission and supporting good governance and job creation. we need to make sure, with our continued support, that the reforms legitimately demanded by the iraqi citizens are delivered promptly, also bearing in mind the global commitments taken in kuwait in february 2018 at the reconstruction conference held there. on this the eu is fully delivering on the pledges we made, with over eur 400 million mobilised in the last two years to support governance reforms and promote sustainable job creation. the situation in iran is also something that we continue to follow closely. we have had a number of tragic incidents, such as the ukraine international airlines plane crash on 8 january with 176 people on board, including a high number of eu citizens. iran has now taken responsibility for this crash. as i said in my statement on 11 january, this was a deplorable tragedy and, once again, i want to send my condolences to the victims’ families. we expect that iran will continue to cooperate fully and undertake a comprehensive and transparent investigation. in the same week, 59 people died in a stampede during the funeral ceremonies for general soleimani on 6 january, and 20 individuals lost their lives on 9 january in a bus accident close to tehran. in this case also, i convey my deepest condolences to all of them. in the current tense situation, it is more important than ever to keep hold of the instruments that are serving to promote security and, in this context, the jcpoa remains crucial for non—proliferation purposes. a failure to preserve the deal will only add to tensions in the region. imagine for a second what the situation would be today if iran had nuclear weapons – and without the jcpoa they would have been able to obtain those. on 5 january, iran announced its fifth and, according to its own announcement, final step in the reduction of its nuclear commitments under the deal. this is a worrisome announcement, but it is important to see what the international atomic energy agency reports on how iran implements this step. as coordinator of the jcpoa, i have been in touch with all the participants on the diplomatic way forward, seeking to preserve unity in the group. you will have heard that, earlier today, the foreign ministers of france, germany and the united kingdom invoked paragraph 36, the so-called dispute resolution mechanism, and informed me, in my capacity as coordinator, because they believe that iran is not meeting its nuclear commitments, referring to the five steps that iran has taken so far. as coordinator, i will guarantee that the dispute resolution mechanism provides an opportunity to address the issues indicated by france, germany and the uk and i will oversee this process. i will be in touch with all the participants on the next steps. i want to underline here that the dispute resolution mechanism is, first and foremost, a process to resolve issues related to the deal’s implementation. the objective of the dispute resolution mechanism will therefore be to find solutions and return to full compliance within the framework of this deal. it is not a matter of imposing sanctions, as some newspapers have been claiming since this morning. all the remaining participants in the agreement have been clear about their determination to preserve the jcpoa. this unity is crucial and i intend to work hard to preserve it. the european union position is clear: without this deal, we would lose a crucial element of the international non—proliferation architecture and an important contribution to regional security. a failure to preserve the deal can only add further tensions to the regions. the time is running out. to reach de—escalation we have to witness this as a broader regional dimension. tensions in iraq reflect several of the region’s fractures and have the potential to affect difficult situations elsewhere in the region, from syria to lebanon, to yemen and beyond. in short, the stakes are extremely high for iraq, for the region as a whole, for the world and, of course, for us. in this context, there have already been calls for months for the european union to play a bigger role, given that we speak to all – all means all – and we are not, as a group, perceived as having a hidden agenda. our partners see us as standing for dialogue and peaceful and negotiated resolutions of disputes. as i mentioned at the beginning, last friday i convened an extraordinary meeting of the foreign affairs council. during the meeting, we once again reaffirmed our call for urgent de-escalation and maximum restraint. we also reaffirmed our steadfast support for iraq’s unity, independence and territorial integrity, and underlined our commitment to our partnerships with iraq and to our continued support for the stability and reconstruction of this country. we also underlined our joint determination to preserve the jcpoa, which we strongly believe to be in all our shared interests and the interest of the region for peace and security. we were also very clear that a durable solution to the ongoing crisis can only be regional and that we would continue to explore the role that the european union can play in that. so, with the strong backing of the council and the commission, i will personally continue to remain engaged in all of these issues, as i said, talking with everybody and travelling everywhere. i am looking forward to working with you to promote safety, security and prosperity in the region, which is strongly and dangerously jeopardised by the latest events. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mr president, i thank you for your comments. i basically share them. we europeans must play an even more active role as honest brokers in the region. the events in baghdad and tehran have unfolded without our involvement in the last few days, and we have been able to contribute to de-escalation through a number of contacts. on the ordered killing of the qods brigade commander, us secretary of defense mark esper has issued his expert opinion regarding the assessment of the concrete threat to american persons and facilities. i have nothing to add to that. the fight against isis is not over in iraq. for this too we need a functioning iraqi state whose government is not a puppet of tehran. i would welcome it if eu member states could continue to support the iraqi forces within nato or bilaterally. in this sense, you should also use your contacts in iraq and, above all, help to secure our large-scale civilian reconstruction aid in the long term. in iran, people are also outraged by the shooting down of the ukrainian plane, especially that the regime took three days to find out the truth. after all, iran has now accepted the truth. russia should take a lesson from this in the case of the downing of mh17 in eastern ukraine. but iran has every reason to plead. the best way to achieve active repentance would be to officially accept the obligations of the nuclear agreement again. this would enable us to finally implement the possibilities of the instex payment mechanism and avoid additional sanctions. i hope that we can reach a solution in the context of the dispute settlement mechanism that has been activated.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, once again we europeans are put before a fait accompli. the american administration and iran are playing with global security and, as the eu, we are faced with the possible security risks. the assassination of iranian general soleimani is the latest in a long series of provocations by the united states since the withdrawal from the iranian nuclear agreement. this has created a very dangerous spiral of instability in the region. it is crucial to support the efforts of the high representative, to de-escalate tensions and to save the nuclear deal with iran. this is even more important since the triggering of the dispute resolution mechanism earlier today, but we must also acknowledge the diverging interest with the current us administration and the american withdrawal from the region. this for us can only mean one thing: that the time has come for a realistic debate on europe’s strategic autonomy to safeguard our own security and interests. we offer, of course, our condolences to the families of the victims of the ukraine international airlines flight and urge the iranian authorities to allow international observers to undertake a full and transparent investigation. iran must also refrain from the use of force, as happened during the last weeks, against peaceful demonstrators who took to the streets protesting against the mismanagement and authoritarianism of the regime. finally, the eu must continue its engagement for unity and democracy in iraq and, if necessary, step up our support.
on behalf of the renew group. president, mr high representative, this debate is of course about much more than the elimination of soleimani. this debate should be about how europe - and i'm talking about the leaders in the council - is completely absent in the middle east. the american withdrawal from syria, the russians taking over, the elimination of soleimani: europe stood by and watched. we are constantly informed by the press of what our most important ally, america, is eating. we're left to guess at an exact motivation and timing. and when regular flights are shot down at random, every european citizen is right to be heartbroken. mr borrell, you have rightly taken a hard line on the nuclear deal with iran. iran must never become a nuclear power and i want to thank you very much for your swift position. but this is not enough. iraq is in danger of being plunged into new chaos, and is is in danger of being given free rein in that chaos again. mr. borrell, you are a man of the right gut instinct. so use that, and make sure that europe has one voice, one role in the middle east. if we do not want the von der leyen commission to be the victim of another major migration crisis, we must do everything we can. and you say: i have been given a mandate. i would very much like to see you on a plane to tehran, to washington, to take the european position there with one voice, to mediate. because, you know, european interests do not coincide with american or russian interests. if there is one person who has to defend the interests of europe, it is you, it is us. go for it. you have our support.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, mr high representative, i would like to thank you for your reply. the truth is that the american action by killing general soleimani has been about to generate a regional meltdown. now, at this moment, it seems clear, the us administration wants to end what has been a european creation, which is the nuclear agreement with iran, which is the only one that allows us to keep the region in a state of peace, that there is no nuclear escalation and which, i also want to remind you, is the framework that allows us to talk to iran about human rights. that we all agree that we should do it, but also the jcpoa is essential for that. we have read today that it has been decided to activate the resolution mechanism. that could have a double reading. some of them probably activated it because they want to take it to the security council and kill the deal. but i think we should try to use it as an opportunity to discuss everything. for iran to fulfil its commitments, but also to discuss the reimposed sanctions, which are currently harming the iranian people in a very important way and putting the political agreement at risk. so i urge you - as i know you are doing - to defend the agreement tooth and nail, because it is our neighbourhood that is at stake.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in addressing the high representative / vice-president, let me start from another point. the freezing of funds, a result of the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), did not improve the lives of ordinary people. kleptocracy and military build-up prevailed; thus mass demonstrations and a brutal crack-down on protesting iranians. there were also matters of concern: meddling in the region, financing of terrorism and support of terrorist organisations, and the development of the ballistic missiles programme, not to mention the recent testing of this in terms of middle-range missiles shot on an anti-daesh basis and the downing of the ukrainian airplane. despite all of this, i also, like yourself, high representative, hope for de-escalation and i think that triggering the mechanism is the least you can do, and we can do, the least of all things. i hope that we have our other tools as well.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just want to say one thing today: the people in both countries are not only dissatisfied with their governments because of the difficult economic and social situation, the brutal violence against protesters and the fear of new wars. no, people are also, in a sense, fed up with the west's dirigisme, and if you add up the total for about a century, this has led to the prevention of stability and self-determination of the peoples in these countries - first for colonial reasons, later for strategic influence, and what is coming today we all know for ourselves. america first, i think, is not just an invention of donald trump, we've known that for a long time. and i think it's time to listen to the people who live there in these two countries, to respect them and not commit political murders and send fake tweets of solidarity in persian. honest compassion is really different. the iraqi parliament, for example, demands that foreign troops be withdrawn, and this is a call for independence and for finally taking matters into our own hands. we should support this.
mr president, we condemn the attack by the united states on iraq, which has claimed the lives of iranian and iraqi soldiers. we denounce the united states' plan to declare the middle east a nato territory. the european union's risky involvement in the context of escalating competition for control of energy is designed to benefit itself. the same provocative pretexts are invoked to justify wars, such as in yugoslavia, syria, iraq, libya and afghanistan, which condemn people to refuge and misery. we express our solidarity with the families of the victims of the ukrainian plane tragedy, for which the iranian government bears a huge responsibility. we stress that the greek government's open support for the policy of the united states and the enormous responsibility of all greek governments over time for turning greece into an american-eastern camp are putting the greek people in great danger. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is resolved.
mr president, first of all i want to thank the previous speaker because she told us very serious things, but they are true. we have to understand that the islamic regime has been very totalitarian and hardly islamic for the last 40 years, so we have tried to negotiate with iran for several years to protect human rights, rule of law, all our values that we are promoting all the time, but as we have seen it is not very successful. and now, if the americans have eliminated one of the leading guys from iran who was responsible for paying for terrorist organisations, for murders, for attacks in israel, in yemen and lebanon, i’m hearing a lot of europeans saying, ‘oh, it is unacceptable, we have to punish the americans for that’. we have to remember that the americans in this case are our allies, so in this case there is a very simple question: do we show up to support the americans, to hold stability? and in the first week we see it has been successful because iran has been afraid of america. we should support them more. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – so i would like to ask you, when there is no state of war, killing somebody – an official of one country in another country – is against international law. are you in favour of respecting international law or not?
blue-card answer. – (start of speech off mic) […] is it against foreign international law if you eliminate one of the leading terrorists? is it really breaking international law? i don’t think so. in baghdad there were attacks against the us embassy. that is an attack against a country and iran has never said that they were not responsible for these attacks. so if i speak now about international law, i would say that they were exactly following international law, protecting their own country in baghdad where they were allowed to be.
mr president, over the past two years we have seen iran and the us climb up a very dangerous ladder of escalation that has led to the killing of soleimani and the downing by iran of the ukrainian airliner. i want to make two points here. first, no one can deny that soleimani played a hugely destructive role in the region and, indeed, had the blood of innocent people on his hands. and second, i do believe that europe needs a us that is fully engaged in international affairs and is ready to take on tyrants and bullies on the global scene. however, i believe it is also absolutely critical that the us play that global role in a responsible manner fully consistent with international law and international norms. moreover, when it takes action that is bound to have such monumental consequences, these actions had better be part of a comprehensive and realistic strategy. another violent conflict spiralling out of control in a region that is already turbulent and unstable is the very last thing we need. we as the eu need to fully use what few levers we have at our disposal to de-escalate this extremely explosive situation. and we should put our confidence in the efforts of the high representative to work towards that end, including by trying to keep the jcpoa alive.
madam president, let me limit my remarks to the common security and defence policy (csdp) report. our union started off as – and continues to be – primarily a peace project. in the area of defence, we are a bit of a late starter and that’s probably why there still appear to be colleagues who are very uncomfortable with discussing defence and the european union in the same sentence. i believe there are at least two different strains of critics of the eu’s defence ambitions. first, there are good people who seemed to sincerely believe that all conflicts in the world can be resolved without any use of military force at all. secondly, there are those who insist that the eu should leave all military operations to the atlantic alliance. i do not believe in the first category, and as to the second, well, while i do believe it’s preferable, when possible, to act in unison with our friends and allies on the other side of the atlantic, i’m afraid that there will be occasions when we have to act on own, and so we also need the means to be able to do so. in this chamber, i’ve heard many colleagues lament the limited role our union plays in helping to resolve the world’s crisis and conflicts. the limited ability to play a role is in remarkable contrast with the ambition we have expressed, including in our global strategy. being able to meet our ambition is dependent on us having the necessary capabilities, which do not come for free. they don’t even come cheap. so if we really do not want our calls for a greater role in global affairs to ring empty, we will have to be ready to provide the necessary resources.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i was also one of the people who had the pleasure and the honour today to speak with the representatives of the polish judges, lawyers and prosecutors. to be honest, there was one sentence said in that meeting that impressed me a lot, and that i wanted to repeat here in this parliament. one of the representatives said: ‘i swore an oath on the polish constitution when i started my job, and with all i do i’m trying to stay true to this oath and defend the rights of polish citizens’. to me, this really encapsulates what kind of people we have to protect in situations like this: these are the kind of people that defend the rule of law, defend our democracies, and are the backbone of our democracies and of the systems that all of us have been profiting from in the past. judges, prosecutors and lawyers are one of the fundaments of this tripartite system, and that is why protecting them really also means protecting the separation of powers, and thus our democracy. indeed – and colleagues have mentioned it – what we have seen in poland in the past years is an organised campaign against that very important backbone, and the commissioner has mentioned the latest developments in this field. this parliament and the eu institutions have taken steps in order to defend the rule of law and european citizens in poland, but i believe that the article 7 procedure has actually proven to very often come too late and be too inflexible to meet all these attacks that have been happening. i think we need to have a more holistic vision, and the rule of law mechanism that is going to be proposed is one of the instruments that we need, together with budgetary measures and, of course, enabling civil society, enabling these representatives to work together. let me finish by saying that i really hope the croatian presidency is going to follow the finnish example in standing up for the rule of law, but just be assured that – no matter what is going to happen – this parliament will continue to stand up for the rule of law and democracy in the future.
on behalf of the group id. mr president of the court of justice! this time i will speak in my native language estonian. first of all, i wish our polish colleagues strength. we hope you'll take it well. i would like to say to the previous speaker that the polish judge you spoke to, who had sworn to protect the polish legal system, had to take his oath in soviet poland, when poland was occupied by the soviet union. otherwise, he couldn't be fired under the new law. so he was not working for poland, but for the communist regime, and you can say "shit!" here, but learn history! secondly, i want to say that three months ago, there was an election in poland and 43% of the people supported the conservative party in poland. forty three percent! that's a fact. they have a strong mandate for reform. thirdly, when we talk about the rule of law and values, i'll just say, and please be a gentleman and don't interrupt, you can also be quiet and then speak. i mean, when we talk about values, there was a debate earlier about world war ii, and i heard a lot of speakers who paid tribute to communism, the soviet union, the red army for how they saved the world. i ask you, is it really in line with european values to praise a regime that killed 20,000 polish officers in the katyn forest? are these european values? think about it! (the president agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – unfortunately, they haven’t attributed my speaking time for the next session, but i will be in the house so i will try to get my speaking time with a blue card or catch-the-eye. so i think it’s a very good idea, and thank you for reminding me.
madam president, in spite of the powerful campaign we’ve waged for 4 years, with grief and regret i accept that we will leave the european union on friday. oh no, here come the tears. our future as a country has no clear shape beyond a few slogans, and this means that we have some very important political tasks ahead. as the brexit losses mount, we must counter the betrayal narrative, where those who promoted the doomed strategy tried to shift the blame for the damage onto the eu and onto those of us who argued against it. we must demonstrate compassion and solidarity with eu citizens living in the uk who feel vulnerable and fearful, and we must revitalise the friendship groups and twinning associations that thrived in the decades before we joined the eu. now is not the time to campaign to rejoin, but we must keep the dream alive – especially for young people, who are overwhelmingly pro-european. i hold in my heart the knowledge that one day, i will be back in this chamber celebrating our return to the heart of europe.
madam president, what a show tonight, again – for the last time finally. first of all, i will not cry. i will congratulate the british guys. the one thing i would like to mention is that last week the imf was forecasting that the uk’s economy will grow in the next two years after brexit faster than the eurozone economy. so it means that all those remainers were lying before brexit. they were lying that the uk will have a crash in the economy. so they were lying. the second thing, if they are growing faster than the eu is doing, it means that the eu is doing something very wrong. if we are so successful, why are we so slow and they are so fast? for the final statement, i really wish great parties and celebrations for friday night. we will celebrate with you. have nice drinks.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the us plan for the middle east: eu response in line with international law (2020/2559 ((rsp)). i would also like to remind you that while the commissioner is on the move, you can request spontaneous and 'blue card' communications both in the traditional way and electronically. the instructions are to be found at the entrance to the chamber.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i am really grateful for having this opportunity to address you today on the middle east peace process. this issue is of fundamental strategic importance to the european union. for too long, we have been witnessing a conflict that has caused endless suffering for generations of israelis and palestinians alike. the increasingly dire situation on the ground, including violence, terrorism, incitement, settlement expansion – illegal, by the way – and the consequences of the ongoing occupation, has destroyed hope on both sides and reduced the viability of a two-state solution. at an international level for a number of years there has been little or no substantive engagement in efforts to resolve the conflict. indeed, as one observer pointed out to me recently, there is neither peace nor a process. in recent years, we on the european union side are perhaps the only actor who has stayed the course. we have been vocal in our support for a negotiated two-state solution based on the internationally agreed parameters and in accordance with international law. this means a two-state solution based on the parameters set in the council conclusions – our council – of july 2014, that meets israeli and palestinian security needs and palestinian aspirations for statehood and sovereignty, ends the occupation that began in 1967, and resolves all permanent status issues in order to end the conflict. our vision, our european vision, is a principled one and a pragmatic one. it reflects our broader attachment as europeans to the rules-based international order. we are also active on the ground. no other international actor has been as engaged as we have been in practical efforts to build a future palestinian state. in 2019 alone, the european union and its member states had an open portfolio of some 600 million in assistance to the palestinians. i said during my hearing: it means – 600 million is almost eur 1.5 million a day. where are we today? it remains my firm view that there is still a way forward if both parties are willing to resume credible and meaningful negotiations. international support for any such efforts would clearly be crucial to their success. in this regard, the tabling of concrete proposals, such as the united states one, could be helpful, both as a catalyst for deeper reflection on the way forward and as a potential opportunity to quick-start a political process which has been at a standstill for too long. however, as i have said, the proposal tabled two weeks ago clearly challenges the internationally-agreed parameters, and it is difficult to see how this initiative can bring both parties back to the table. 25 out of 27 member states in the foreign affairs council supported this consideration. two were against, so it was not a unanimous decision of the council and i could not present it like this, but as a statement of the high representative, which i am repeating here again. last week i was in washington; they were very busy days, talking with all foreign affairs external policy higher authorities of the us government. i put this point to my interlocutors. we need to ask ourselves whether this plan provides a basis for progress or not. we need to know whether the proposals themselves are really open for negotiation. is it the starting point, or the end point? for the european union’s part, our position is clear. we are ready to work with the international community to revive a political process in line with international law, which ensures equal rights and which is acceptable to both parties. thank you for your attention and i am looking forward to an important discussion, which i’m sure will follow.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we do not know what president trump’s deal of the century actually is apart from being one-sided, illegal and intentionally provocative, but it is most certainly not a genuine effort at finding a peaceful resolution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. let me be clear, negotiations between israel and palestine were broken off in 2014 and must be resumed as soon as possible. but that is not what this plan will lead to. this plan disregards the international rules-based order. it not only normalises illegal settlements but also clears the way for the utterly illegitimate annexation of the jordan valley and 30% of the west bank. we must make clear that such actions will have serious consequences for our relationship with israel if that happens. inevitably, it will also lead to more suffering for the palestinian people, whether that is because their land is annexed, their water resources are taken or because they lack control over their own borders. this is a cynical plan of two far-right leaders seeking a cheap popularity boost ahead of elections. this is a slap in the face of israelis and palestinians who genuinely want to find a solution. i therefore call on you, mr high representative, to continue supporting all efforts that truly involve both parties. the people of israel and palestine need a real peace plan and if we, as europeans, can play a constructive role in that, we should do so.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr high representative, we have been dragged into another trumpite rabbit hole in recent weeks: a two-state solution for israel and palestine, with all the benefits for israel and the crumbs for the palestinians. trump's plan was really nothing more than a one-state plan for israel, disguised as a two-state solution. a missed opportunity, you might say, were it not for the fact that trump's proposal has now completely rocked the fragile relationship between israel and palestine. that is why, mr borrell, the european union has a greater role to play than ever before. america has been drawing the israeli map far too one-sidedly in recent years. the credibility of the united states in the middle east is at stake. a credibility that you, that europe, still has. so use this credibility by acting as an impartial partner, as an honest broker, to sort of glue together the pieces made by trump so that israel and palestine can come back to the table or at least indirect negotiations can take place. and let us make it clear that our european red lines are widely supported by the international community. i think, mr borrell, that a high-level international peace conference under your leadership is the way forward. you have our support.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, a great number of victims of the israeli-palestinian conflict have long been languishing for a peace plan. such a peace plan must, of course, include painful concessions, but concessions from both sides. it must include security for israel, but it must also include a viable sovereign, contiguous state for the palestinians living side by side with the israelis. this is not what trump is presenting to us. it’s not a fresh start, it’s a dead end. the so—called peace plan is neither about peace, because it doesn’t overcome it prolongs the conflict, nor is it a plan as a point of departure for negotiations. it’s rather a dictate. when they talk about a peace plan they are effectively pushing for annexation – and a two-state solution is different from one state plus one canton. we cannot … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, each and every force in this world is more than welcome if this force puts a proposal for a solution on the table, especially when it’s a proposal for a solution with the objective of a two states perspective in it – a two states solution in the end. the eu has not contributed much with a concrete proposal in the past, so we should deal with the proposal from the united states constructively. the eu is contributing a lot in terms of development aid and other terms, but has not proposed anything in the past, so let’s deal constructively with the us proposal. if somebody reacts with violence to a solution proposal, this is not a reliable partner, and reaction with violence in the past has been wrong. dear commissioner, take that into consideration in order to deal constructively with the us proposal and in order to be connected with the values of the pro-western powers in this world. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, it is hard to regard the most recent us peace plan as credible since it does not meet the principal parameters for peace. it is not fair and even-handed, it does not follow the basic principles of international law and its drafters only managed to engage one of the two parties to the conflict. whatever domestic political ends in the us or in israel the plan’s launch may have served, its chances of revitalising the peace process are, unfortunately, virtually non-existent. moreover, if israel, following palestinian rejection of the plan, were to restart settlement activity or go on to annex parts of the occupied territories, it may be entirely counterproductive to sustainable peace and eventually prove detrimental to the two- state solution altogether. the eu must stick to its principal position of holding firm to international law. we must continue to uphold the position that only a negotiated two-state solution can, in a sustainable manner, address the legitimate israeli security concerns and deliver a palestinian statehood. but, in addition to having a clear and principled understanding of where we need to be at the end of the process, the eu also needs a credible plan of its own on how to get there from where we are today. this is ever more critical as the us appears to be abandoning its role as an even-handed broker.
mr president, first of all i think it’s a very important debate because in the last weeks it has been the main topic in the media – a peace plan by the us in the middle east. first of all, i think it’s very important for the european union to understand international law, because in international law we have to understand that it has to be respected on both sides, by israel and also by palestine. from the palestinian side, we have to recognise that they haven’t really understood the meaning of international law – that you can’t support terrorist organisations against israel. you can’t support the way you’re using your children, how you’re using them like bombing attacks against neighbouring countries. so in this case i think palestine is really breaking international law, something we have to also recognise. the second thing is there have been many critics against the us about this peace plan, but i’ve never heard of any other solution or any other plan for the middle east, so i really want ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this morning i heard that we in europe are paying for what is happening in syria. i think that's a real mistake in the analysis. we are an international power in a globalized world and we are not a military power. what has characterised europe - our contribution to the world - has been precisely the humanitarian aspect. our contribution to solidarity. at least he was. and now what we find is that there are so many people fleeing idlib who are real refugees - not imaginary ones - and we are not supporting them. and those who created international humanitarian law after world war ii -- those who created the geneva convention -- went through circumstances far worse than we are going through. we are abandoning the very heart of who we are as europeans. and our weakness is in putting ourselves in the hands of turkey. our weakness is that we have no humanitarian corridors, no common asylum policy. that's our weakness.
mr. chairman of the board! first, we saw the solutions that were proposed when the migration crisis erupted in 2015/2016. angela merkel called for open borders for all. there was a massive chaos, which was tried to be resolved by quotas, by uniform solutions. and what did that produce? it created a crisis in the european union. my message is that any pressure on quotas or divisions will lead to the end of the european union. this will create the final crisis of the european union. second, i have repeatedly visited refugee camps in greece, in athens and lesbos, and to call all migrants refugees is a blatant lie. that's lying. more than 80 percent of the people in 2015 and 2016 were not from syria, the war zone. it was economic migrants, and we, as european people in different countries, have no obligation to solve these problems that have been deliberately created by extreme left forces across europe, for example in germany. i come from estonia and i represent my people, 65 percent of whom do not support a common immigration policy. so forget about it! (the president agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card question. – mr madison, i have known you for some time on the conference of parliamentary committees for union affairs of parliaments of the european union (cosac). i know what you’re against, but i’m never certain what you are in favour of. so, instead of telling us what you’re against, could you tell me how you might resolve this problem? what about the real humanitarian situation of refugees and migrants? they’re all people. who do you put first, people or borders?
blue-card answer. – thank you, ms mcguinness. i know you very well, and i know that you’re a very nice person. my solution is also that we have to protect refugees in their own home countries and neighbourhoods. i was in jordan in 2015, where about 80 000 refugees were stuck in the refugee camp and they got help from the eu. they didn’t want to come to the eu. they wanted to stay in a neighbouring country and go back home as soon as possible. that’s the first solution; we have to help neighbouring countries in the middle east, like jordan. the second is a solution like australia .... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would also like to thank the council and the commission for their statements, and i will continue in estonian. desinformatsioon ei ole uus nähtus ja ometigi oleme me iga kord üllatunud, kui järjekordne desinformatsioonilaine meid tabab, puudutagu see sekkumist demokraatlikesse valimistesse või rünnakuid üksikute liikmesriikide vastu. möönan, et koroonakriisi ajal, mis on ülemaailmne kriis, jõudis valeinfo levitamine uuele tasemele, alustades informatsioonist koroonaviiruse päritolu ja leviku kohta ning lõpetades valeravimite ja šarlatanlike ravivõtetega. ning see laine ei ole veel lõppenud ega lõpegi, kui meie ei lõpeta imestamist ja ei hakka tegutsema. väidan, et on olemas ideed ja kogemus, aga puudu jääb otsustavusest ja kiirusest. tänaselgi arutelul kõlasid väga õiged mõtted – desinformatsiooniallikate paljastamine ja faktidel põhineva informatsiooni jagamine, koostöö liikmesriikide, institutsioonide ja meediaplatvormidega, ajakirjanduse vastutus ja inimeste harimine. ma tunnustan komisjoni ja välisteenistuse algatust, mis on seotud koroonaviirusega seotud desinformatsiooni vastase võitlusega. „tackling coronavirus desinformation, getting the facts right“ – mul on hea meel, et see kasvas välja idasuunalise strateegilise kommunikatsiooni rakkerühmast, mille algatasid viis aastat tagasi eesti, leedu, taani ja suurbritannia. ma kordan üle, et meil on teadmised ja kogemused, kuidas valeinformatsiooniga võidelda. aeg on otsustada ja tegutseda, see omakorda tähendab vahendeid – inimesi ja rahalisi vahendeid; ning oluline on ju informatsiooni kättesaadavus kõigis euroopa liidu ametlikes keeltes, mitte ainult mõnes väljavalitud keeles, nagu see kahjuks praegu on.
mr president, madam chancellor, madam president, madam chancellor, your country is not only the biggest contributor to the union budget, paying some 30 billion euros, but also the biggest beneficiary of the single market. the benefits of this are estimated at eur 210 billion per year, which is seven times the contribution paid. the call for german solidarity with less prosperous countries during the coronavirus pandemic is therefore justified. your country has decided to provide over €1 trillion in public aid to the economy, which is more than 50% of public aid in the entire union, but if the crisis in the eu economy continues, the german economy, which is largely export-oriented, will not return to growth very soon either. it is therefore essential to conclude the budget negotiations swiftly and to launch the recovery fund for all member states this year. finally, thirdly, the common agricultural policy and european farmers have ensured food security during the coronavirus pandemic for 500 million european consumers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs merkel, i have a minute to address you, the woman who is perceived by the european citizens as the mistress of europe, you who, with your former minister von der leyen at the head of the european commission, have the opportunity to make amends for the mistakes made so far. let covid-19 be a warning to you to do things differently: the recovery fund shall be approved immediately: we need fresh resources, bottom-up and within the year. the european parliament will not accept any compromise to the downside of the commission's proposal; it is the least that europe can do. these resources cannot come from the esm, do not insist that italy activate it. the italian health system has been destroyed by austerity and the stability pact needs a thorough revision and not a temporary suspension. italy has learned from its greek brothers: we will not sell the country to wild privatizations and liberalizations; we will not allow large foreign companies - german, french, dutch, but also chinese - to plunder public goods and strategic assets. as an italian, i don't accept insults against my fellow citizens, their enormous sacrifices to make up for the loss. do we want a more competitive europe? then the single market works for everyone: tax havens, for example; yes to a common consolidated tax base; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the green new deal says goodbye to fossil fuels: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the environment, but that we should be concerned about the environment. and be careful . the hydrogen of the future is green hydrogen, not blue hydrogen! it takes courage and ambition: we're in, but on these terms.
madam chancellor, i have to ask you... i ask you to help the union get back on its feet. no one else could do this job under the circumstances. make your motto come true: make europe strong again. the hungarian presidency also chose this as its motto in 2001. we took small steps then, now it's time for big steps. this requires a focus on issues that link member states and promote the union's competitiveness. without internal cohesion, we cannot stand in the mud, neither in the fight against the pandemic, nor in the global power space. they should thus use their strength to achieve a fair and balanced budget, with a strengthened cohesion policy, which has already proven itself as a prerequisite for competitiveness. you are aware of the situation in the eastern member states. they can count on us for economic policy. please, so we can count on you. let us leave behind the things that divide us: the ideological issues, the psychological warfare against individual member states and third countries that is so fashionable these days. in the area of rule of law, rise above preconceptions. the contracts should be viewed in the same light. finally, the german wisdom, which is well known, is needed to reach an agreement with the british and finally accept that they are imagining their future outside the union, but not to renounce their status as the number one political and economic partner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the german presidency begins its six-month term in one of the darkest moments in europe, which has been torn in two by the coronavirus. you, madam chancellor, have already mentioned the people who have left us and the economic and social consequences of this crisis. and it is europe that is called upon today to respond to the challenge we are facing. your presidency comes just days before a crucial european council meeting to find agreement on the commission's reconstruction plan. i want to be very clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this parliament has already expressed itself by a large majority on several occasions in recent months, because there is the council, which you have the burden and the honour of presiding over, but there is also the parliament, the only institution elected directly by the citizens. we will never approve an agreement which lowers the ambition of the reconstruction plan, which does not give hope and a future to the citizens of europe. the commission's proposal is the trade union minimum, it is a starting point, but it cannot be the end point, much less a compromise downwards. we can't wait any longer. yesterday's estimates are clear: two months of waiting is worth 2 percentage points less of gdp to the european economy. so good work, chancellor, and i say that without rhetoric. this is a time in history where vision and courage are needed. we have high hopes: we are not going to let the european parliament be surprised, and this parliament will be with you.
the chairman of the court, the honourable mrs merkel. i listened carefully to your review of the german presidency. you have repeatedly stressed unity and solidarity. i have a question for you: how can we take the unity and solidarity of the european union seriously when germany has repeatedly shown that solidarity is very selective? germany is now building nord stream 2 with russia, for example, to buy cheap gas from russia, ignoring geopolitical risks and security interests, ignoring the interests of its partners and the european union member states by increasing russia's influence in the european union's energy sector. i'm afraid you're ignoring that. how can you talk about solidarity when so many farmers in the european union are still receiving only two thirds of the agricultural subsidies, simply because germany and france are against it, otherwise they would lose their competitive advantage in the european union's common market? how can you talk about solidarity? and finally, is solidarity for you only what germany supports with uncontrolled migration and the opening of borders? if the problem is too big, it can only be solved by redistributing those people on a quota basis. is this the solidarity that germany wants? i do not want such a european union, thank you!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, a historic day for europe, said french president emmanuel macron, turning around. but great words cannot erase great failures or great sins. in the joint resolution tabled today by all the groups from the centre-right to the far left, the council deplores the lack of regard it has for the european parliament. the rush of our assembly to meet within 48 hours to finally accept, with a few reservations, the agreement negotiated a few days ago, contributes to relegating our parliament to a role of figurehead and recording chamber. parliamentary and legislative work, if it is to be respected as such, if it is to be credible, requires a minimum of time and serenity. if you are short of time today, it is firstly because we lost a lot of it yesterday: firstly because the european institutions were the big absentees from the health crisis themselves; secondly because the european parliament has been the biggest absentee from the health crisis itself; thirdly because the european parliament has been the biggest absentee from the health crisis itself; fourthly because the european parliament has been the biggest absentee from the health crisis itself; fifthly because the european parliament has been the biggest absentee from the health crisis itself; and sixthly because the european parliament has been the biggest absentee from the health crisis itself. the crisis should have been an opportunity to rebuild the european union on sound foundations, localism, economic protectionism, free cooperation between nations, industrial independence, the end of bureaucracy. this crucial turning point for europe was missed by the sin of hubris, of excess, brussels wanted to do what it always does: go even further, even faster, continue its flight forward without ever recognizing its mistakes or learning from them. the union, which was absent in the anticipation of the crisis and absent in the coordination of european countries in the face of the crisis, is now trying to make its failures and shortcomings be forgotten by presenting, in a triumphalist manner, a painfully negotiated recovery plan from which so few european countries will actually benefit. 92 hours of arduous negotiations have shown that national interests will always prevail over the federal utopia. yes, mr macron, yes, mrs merkel, the nations, they still exist. most of the boasting announcements were eventually dropped or scrapped, direct aid to the economy fell from 500 billion to less than 400 billion at the end of the first round of negotiations and in the meantime the appropriations for the common agricultural policy, research and erasmus were cut. but the main objective - dogmatic, ideological - remains: to take a further step towards a centralised european state through the continental mutualisation of debt. the question is what is the gain for our nations, what is the real benefit for our peoples? these economic supports could well have been organised by each country, with the advantage of deciding how to use the money instead of having their financial choices dictated by the commission. to make us swallow the pill, we are told today, in a mixture of bad faith and candor, that this colossal debt, which was incurred by the commission but which is owed by the nations, would be repaid through the famous own resources, the first step towards a european tax which some people are eagerly hoping for. a carbon tax, a gafam tax, a plastic tax whose introduction remains very hypothetical and the financial products totally unknown. in practice, as always, it is the nine countries which are net contributors to the european budget which will have to bear the burden of this new debt tomorrow. for example, france will have 40 billion euros out of 750 and will see its contribution to the budget increase for the next 6 years. what is historic, to use macron's term, is perhaps to see a president negotiating an agreement against the interests of his own country. the health crisis must not become the new pretext for continuing to build the european union not only without the people, but against their fundamental interests.
for the greens/efa group mr president, they are mark rutte, a dutch liberal, sebastian kurz, a christian democrat from austria, mette fredriksen, sanna marin and stefan löfven, scandinavian socialists. they like to call themselves the frugals, or i'd say the radins. for them, the european union is a cash pump that their country is always feeding too much. in the face of this unprecedented crisis, it should at most act as an intermediary between a few member states in difficulty and the financial markets. they fail to see that doing so would cause an explosion of tensions within the monetary union which could be fatal to it. yet if they were honest, citizens would explain to their fellow citizens how much their country has benefited and still benefits from european economic integration, and that it is therefore right that their contribution to the european budget should match these benefits. but, very cynically, they prefer to keep the butter on the internal market without paying the right price for it. they are viktor orban, the hungarian christian democrat, or tadeusz morawiecki, the polish conservative. they are often called "illiberals". i would say the "pseudo-democrats". for them, the european union is nothing more than a money-maker for their country, their oligarchs or even themselves. but if they were honest, the pseudo-democrats would explain to their fellow citizens how much their country has benefited and still benefits from european integration, and that respect for the commitments made when they joined, starting with the rule of law and freedoms, is only the fair counterpart to solidarity. very cynically, they prefer to grab the money for the butter by demanding the smile of the milkmaid as a bonus. in contrast, a majority of heads of state and government have fortunately grasped the seriousness of the moment. two hundred thousand europeans have already been wiped out by the pandemic and its impact has exploded inequalities in europe. it comes at a time when time is running out to meet the climate challenge and when, faced with xi jinping's china, trump's united states, putin's russia or erdogan's turkey, the european union feels alone in defending freedom, the rule of law and a global order based on negotiated rules. but the 27 heads of state or government had to decide unanimously, leaving them at the mercy of the most extreme among them. the commission's proposals to respond to the pandemic have been mutilated: their already insufficient amount has been cut by almost a quarter, and these amputations, as charles michel pointed out, affect first of all the initiatives carried out jointly and the most promising for the future. and once again, at a time when the need for public investment has never been greater, the european budget is being reduced again, especially in its dimensions linked to the green deal. for example, the rural development fund, the greenest component of the common agricultural policy, is cut in half. and how can we conceive, at a time when the world is worried about a second wave of contamination, that european leaders are drastically cutting back on research and public health programmes? the icing on the cake: radins have been able to contribute even less to these investments than in the past. on the positive side, we welcome the fact that the target of devoting 30% of european spending to combating climate change has been adopted. but beware, without really binding enforcement and control mechanisms, the risk is that the make-up overrides reality. on the question of the rule of law by the beneficiaries, i welcome the discussion to which you have referred, mr president, but the mechanism adopted remains vague and there is no guarantee that it will be operational. despite all this, thanks to the perseverance of angela merkel and charles michel, the essential element of the architecture proposed by the commission remains: for the first time, the european union will finance massive investments by borrowing from one another. the question of their reimbursement, another dead end of the summit, remains largely unresolved. we believe that the member states must finally give the union the right to impose taxes, particularly on those predators that have become multinational companies (and not just digital companies) and on polluting activities. if such own resources were to be adopted, we would be faced with a prototype of this budgetary union, which is certainly limited in time and scope, without which the european union would be doomed to insignificance. that is why, despite the unfortunate events of the last few days, it is absolutely crucial that the implementation of this plan restores the essential ingredient for the future of the union: trust. the european parliament will assume its full responsibilities as budgetary authority. i am prepared to enter into negotiations with my colleagues, taking the hand extended by the council and the commission, until a satisfactory agreement is reached, both on the volume and the orientation of expenditure and on its governance and conditionality, with the general european interest as the compass, as you heard from my colleagues. i would like to conclude, mr president, by addressing once again the radins and the pseudo-democrats. by their speeches and their actions, which reduce the european union to a financial abyss or a new avatar of the soviet union, they instill the poison of nationalism in their fellow citizens day after day, year after year; they are turning european citizens against each other. the british conservatives have been on this path before them, and we all know where it leads. on the contrary, rather than turning our backs, we europeans need to join forces more than ever to ensure that everyone, present and future, has the conditions for a life worth living. it is together that we will find the intelligence and the strength to chart our way into the 21st century. this is our fight, and we will never give it up.
before we continue the debate, i must now proceed to the opening of the first round of voting. we shall now vote on the amendments to the motion for a resolution on the conclusions of the extraordinary european council. the voting will take place from 10.30 a.m. to 11.45 a.m. the method is the one used in the previous rounds. i call the first round of voting open. you have until 11:45 and we'll have the results by 1:30.
the agenda includes the continuation of the discussion on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the extraordinary european council meeting of 17-21 july 2020 (2020/2732 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, honourable presidents of the council and the commission, ahead of the european council, the ecr group had a clear message: it was time to act. although it took many days, the european council did it. they were not easy decisions – taking many days of negotiations – and the result contains compromises and requires significant flexibility. but overall, the outcome shows that the mutual respect for all nation states allows to bring us to a reasonable deal or an agreement or some kind of process, like manfred weber described, which allows us to move forward. there are others in this house who disagree. citizens across europe look first and foremost to their national governments to provide a response to the pandemic. while we stand together in solidarity, the ecr group considers it right that national governments are empowered to directly respond and swiftly deliver necessary support. as member states decide what kind of measures should be taken to safeguard the citizens during the pandemic, governments also have to deliver in the best way using solidarity resources, of course, with scrutiny. at the same time, we have to remember that the most important thing is to give back to our people their hopes, jobs and incomes for them to survive and to have a good future. well, the marathon summit and the conclusions is not the end of the road, and we as a group see clear issues to be resolved. concerning the funds, they will not immediately be available to those countries and communities most affected by coronavirus. the ecr group struggles to accept that funds would not be available until 12 months or more after the darkest periods of pandemic experienced so far across many member states. there is a clear risk that in responding to this crisis, we risk delaying, and it would be a dangerous moment and a response from citizens. we stand ready to make the necessary improvements by engaging in a constructive manner to finalise the agreement as soon as possible. there are areas in the mff, particularly, where we can do better. we regret the cuts to agriculture and regional development, turning money away from economic development and other key goals. reductions to other significant programmes, including resources to deliver on the digital agenda, a competitive single market, there is strong focus on employment, and the geopolitical agenda risks leaving europe ill—equipped to deal with the challenges arising from its global competitors. and finally, we must, therefore, still enter into negotiations on the mff where the role of parliament is clear. it will be not easy; we are divided by member states, by political views, but i think we don’t need to delay this procedure and to finalise, as best as possible in these circumstances, a deal.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it will not surprise you that i cannot join in your praise with much enthusiasm. after a long period of back and forth, the member states have finally been able to agree on a building fund for which the commission will borrow jointly. europe has had to wait a long time for this, albeit modest, sign of solidarity. the position of my group has always been clear: the eu is called upon to provide a comprehensive response to the corona crisis and to ensure social and economic recovery, linking this with the social-digital and social-ecological transformation of our continent. if we compare this result of the european council with this claim, it is simply disappointing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council's attitude was not one which could have marked the start of a new european project. the european union is a global community of nations. this is also reflected in the fact that the council has not been able to agree on an explicit rule of law mechanism. the free press, an independent judiciary, equality between men and women, trade union organisation are not goods that can be sold for a few billion, but are the foundations of a democracy. the repayment of the debt through own resources is a good idea in principle, mrs von der leyen, but it will not work with the plastic tax alone, which has been specifically planned so far: 3 billion a year in estimated revenue, 390 billion in subsidies, that is a repayment period of 130 years. social solidarity also means tax justice, and that is why we now need a digital tax with an estimated annual revenue of 8 billion euros, a financial transaction tax with an estimated revenue of 57 billion euros per year, and a wealth tax for super-rich companies. the super-rich must do their part in building up the economy, and that is where you will find the additional resources you have mentioned, mrs von der leyen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax havens in the eu are closed. the multiannual financial framework is also not ambitious enough in its scope and falls far short of the demands and positions which have been expressed many times in this house. it needs more investment in the future. it is not credible to cut back on the same areas - for example, on the funds for digitisation, healthcare or the just transition fund - to put the red pen there and at the same time to increase military spending and investments in weapons systems. europe missed an opportunity last weekend. i'm not sure it's gonna get a second one of this kind.
mr president, the microphone wants me to thank you three times, i can gladly do this. president von der leyen, president michel, we welcome the agreement reached on the recovery package. and the message from the european parliament is clear: we welcome the ambitious support of eur 750 billion. help is coming for the people affected by the coronavirus, for the enterprises affected and for the regions affected by this virus. now it is very important that we get this right, that money is being used to modernise, to further develop the european union and one thing is clear: the more we spend the better the control needs to be. democratic and parliamentary scrutiny, transparency and the same for the european parliament, this is all-important for us. on the budget for the next seven years, we need to get this right, because this is the budget of the european union, also for the time after corona. it is here to stay, it needs to be ambitious and it needs to be enough to fulfil the promises which we have made to the people of europe. we saw in the council, 27 presidents and prime ministers fight for 27 national perspectives. now the european parliament will fight for the european perspective. we have listened to the council, now is the time for the council to listen to the european parliament. what are our demands? what do we want? we want more young people to be able to travel and study in other countries to better know the european union and the european way of living in different countries here in unity in the union. for this, we need a bigger budget for erasmus scholarships. we want us to be able to build more hospitals, to modernise existing hospitals. for this, we need an ambitious eu health programme, and we want europe to be more innovative, to research more. for this, we need to prioritise the horizon europe programme. we want no one to be left behind in the transition to a green economy. the just transition fund needs to be enforced. these are our expectations, these are our demands in order for us to be able to support the budget of the european union for the next seven years. president von der leyen, you said the budget is a ‘bitter pill that needs to be swallowed’. we do not want to swallow it in this form, we want to negotiate, we want to improve it, we want to start negotiations fast, we want to conclude negotiations fast and to have a vote fast because, president von der leyen, you were a minister, president michel, you were a prime minister, you know the parliament always has the final say on the budget. this is why i say: let’s start the final negotiations fast and give a message to the people of europe that we have an ambitious budget for the next seven years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at last! finally, the european council has also struck a blow. today we can talk about a european response to the economic and social crisis caused by the coronavirus, today we can talk for the first time about a common european debt to cope with the relaunch of our economies. the next generation eu agreement is changing the face of europe: the european union has won the europe of solidarity, it has lost those who for years told us that europe was no longer needed, that it could be done without, that, after all, it was better to close oneself within one's own borders to defend one's own national interests, as if these were something other than european interests, which are almost opposed. then came the coronavirus, with all the burden of suffering and pain for people who didn't make it, but also for those who struggle every day for a job that is now gone and that may not even be coming back anytime soon. we have discovered that we are all more fragile on our own, but we have also learned that the way out of crises is not to defend small countries, but to revive a genuine common european project. that is why, mr president, we must make a further effort today, all of us together. if the recovery fund is a step forward, the multiannual financial framework is not good, it is not adequate, it needs to be improved and that is why we are here. we certainly need extraordinary resources to get our economies moving, which must be in the interests of all those who are committed to presenting clear signs of revival and modernisation of their economies, and parliament must also be able to have its say, but we also need to ensure the continuity of the union's programmes and to give solidity to the new priorities for the future that we have all set ourselves, starting with the green deal. if we really want to address the next generations of europeans, to the extent of calling the next generation eu plan, we cannot accept that programmes with high european added value, such as horizon for research, the just transition fund for the green transition, investeu for the competitiveness of our companies, eu4health for health or erasmus, are cut so heavily. and we cannot accept that europe's resources should go to those who do not respect its values: you can't use everyone's money to undermine the rule of law and democracy. we've made some big steps up here, just one last mile to go. european citizens are looking to europe with hope and confidence. let's not waste this opportunity!
president. - the european council has reached an agreement. this was also very necessary, because the european institutions could not and cannot afford to slip into a deadlock at a time when the covid pandemic is still raging and resulting in severe socio-economic consequences. the recovery fund in hand provides the necessary leverage to allow our economies to recover quickly, but there are still some loose ends. i'll take two. the first point concerns conditionality, where the agreement provides for an emergency break. it is rather unclear, i think, how that should work, whether it will work at all and what happens in the event of a deadlock at that level. the second point of ambiguity is certainly the repayment, where i do see certain principles, certain outlines of how that should be done, but the concrete effects of how we are going to do that - and it is still about 750 billion euros - are absolutely not fixed at the moment and are guaranteed to generate a number of discussions in the near and somewhat further future. i also have some questions about the criteria used, in particular the historical unemployment rate, which i believe is a bit of a reverse calculus. finally, i very much regret that the agreement reached by the council cuts the multiannual budget in terms of innovation and research programmes. these are just the things we need to make our economy stronger and more resilient.
madam president, the news of the agreement this week has been very positive and full of hope at a moment of doubt and serious problems: a big step forward. this is what one would expect from the eu. now it will be the member states who must distribute resources with efficiency, with a federal mentality, and, above all, with great responsibility. this money comes from the effort of millions, and has been mobilised thanks to a marvellous word which is, or should be, the essence of the eu: solidarity. no one should ever forget this. a powerful economic recovery machine has been built, but the opportunity has been lost for this colossal energy to serve to strengthen democracy and the rule of law, especially in these times when dramatic situations, such as those of the uyghur people, demand from europe an indestructible moral authority in the human rights field. there are states that will receive a lot of money but will not feel any obligation to change their treatment of or their opposition to national minorities, as we catalans know well. spain continues to spend millions on pegasus software licences to spy on pro—independence leaders. will spain reject the recommendation of the united nations human rights committee? can there be economic recovery without a democratic dimension? yes, in china, but in europe the slightest possibility that this might be possible is a nightmare that we should know how to shake off.
president, after the four days and nights that president michel described, i have described this agreement as the good, the bad, and the ugly. the good is the fact that there is an agreement. not only about a multiannual budget - which is always difficult, and we as parliament have some comments on that - but also about the recovery package in response to the corona crisis and its economic consequences. because let's face it, it's not over. i would like to use this space to appeal to the people outside, especially those who think that because the sun is shining there are no problems: you follow the rules. it's not over yet. when nurses risk their own lives every day to save yours, the least you can do is follow the rules about corona. dan, the bad: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but also on immigration and border control. that is a good example, mr president, of how your council is constantly going around in circles. in the last migration crisis, the countries shouted: we must solve this problem in a european way! and when the commission and parliament said: we'll go to the border together, they said: we'll put a budget in place for that. that's the budget that's been cut. i am sure, president michel, that in the next migration crisis, your members will be shouting: we must take a european approach to this! dan, the ugly: as far as i am concerned, the rule of law. i have seen the wording in each version of the council conclusions become weaker and weaker. but all is not lost, so i very much welcome the outstretched hand of commission president von der leyen to continue working on the basis of the commission's 2018 proposal to develop this regime. if i listen to how widely this is shared in the european parliament, i think we are sending a very clear signal today to the government in poland, the government in the czech republic, also the government in hungary, to all 27 member states: i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. because why is this so important? we are adding a new element to our european home with the recovery package, but respect for the rule of law is the foundation of everything we do. we must therefore work beyond the council's meagre text, and i very much welcome that outstretched hand.
to begin with, i'm very pleased to hear everyone's song of praise and great congratulations on the agreement that was reached. my problem is that we're still starting from the root cause. why is the european union borrowing 750 billion euros and what is the real reason? the real reason, according to the european commission, is that many member states do not receive such a favourable loan otherwise. but why can't they? because their own government debt is too high. but why is it too big? because the economy doesn't work, but the reason the economy doesn't work is that they can't get their economy going, when they're so hamstrung by european union regulations, directives, laws, because inevitably, uniform regulations across the european union don't work. so now those countries that have been frugal, thrifty, conservative in their fiscal policies like estonia, my own country, which is probably the country with the least debt in the world today, have to agree to take out huge loans because many european countries have simply lived beyond their means for decades. not to mention the political problem, of course, that when we talk about the rule of law, we talk about poland, hungary - all of these, very nice, but it is not in any way compatible with the rule of law to plan to go around the treaties, because the treaties would not allow the european commission to set a precedent by taking out a huge loan that we don't even know how we will repay, let alone new taxes. so i'm pretty sure it's going to go to a lot of high courts across the european union, as it did in germany and it's certainly going to do in estonia. thank you and we hope for the best for the future of europe, which is not just the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, to start with, i would also like to thank my good colleague sven mikser for this timely and well-balanced report. it is encouraging to see that popular support for the eu remains at a record high in georgia. this also means the georgian people deserve our solidarity. therefore, as the co-chair of the eu-georgia parliamentary association committee, i would like to reiterate our full and unwavering support to georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. the report on the implementation of the association agreement is an excellent framework to evaluate georgia’s progress and talk openly about challenges. i welcome the recent electoral reform in line with the recommendations of the office for democratic institutions and human rights (odihr) and hope that it will contribute to ease the polarisation in georgia’s political and media landscape. i would also like to recognise the promotion of women’s representation. i urge all political parties, especially and including the opposition, to do their utmost to guarantee peaceful, fair and free elections on 21 october. these elections will be crucial in determining georgia’s future for years to come. georgia has an impressive reform record. of course, further approximation is still needed in some areas like environmental protection and the fight against discrimination of vulnerable groups. it is also true that georgia is a young democracy where the rule of law must be further consolidated. to conclude, i would like to congratulate the georgian authorities for handling the covid-19 crisis in an exemplary manner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative, war is never necessary or inevitable: you can always find an alternative; it is the way of dialogue and encounter, pope francis has said. i therefore strongly support the mediation of the german presidency and the action of the high representative to stop the escalation in the mediterranean. but be careful . mediation does not mean impartiality. this is not possible! greece and cyprus, to whom i extend my full solidarity, are member states, friends and brothers who defend international law, while turkey is a country that is only formally a candidate country and has now renounced any respect for european values, a country that has taken a series of unilateral, provocative, illegal and unacceptable actions. i've denounced him too many times over the last six years: what else has to happen after what happened to the kurds? what else is going to happen after what's happened in the last few days? the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
mr president, turkey's criminal activities continue against two member states of the european union: cyprus and greece. these threats are not only directed against these two member states but are directed against the european union, since its external borders, its sovereign rights and its interests are being violated. it is clear once again that turkey does not understand words, declarations and resolutions. turkey and turkish aggression can only be stopped by strict sanctions and measures. may i remind you that despite international outcry and despite our own objections and reactions, overnight they turned the universal symbol of christianity, the hagia sophia, into a mosque. i would remind you that for 46 years my own country, cyprus, has been occupied. the turkish government refuses to withdraw its troops so that we can proceed with the solution of the cyprus problem and we can enjoy our human right to return after 46 years to our occupied land and our ancestral homes. i would remind you that turkey does not respect any decision, any resolution, any agreement of the european parliament and the european union, since it does not recognize the republic of cyprus to this day. but beyond reminding you, i must warn you today that my city, the city of sandhill, is threatened with turkish colonization, with the opening of the closed area. i would ask you, mr president, and all the political groups to bring the sandbox issue to the next part-session of the house, and to do so now, because then it will be too late. the european union has a duty to ensure that the turkish authorities are not forced to accept the new turkish legislation. for me, the measures are simple and there are only four: (a) to stop any financing to turkey of at least one euro to turkey; (b) to stop arms sales to turkey. it is inconceivable that a single bullet could be sent from a member state of the european union to turkey when it is to be used against european citizens; (c) freeze the customs union of turkey; (d) to secure sovereign rights and external borders with the practical support and solidarity of the european union. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union.
mr president, let us assume that turkey does not own 37% of cyprus, that it does not threaten greece on a daily basis and that it has not invaded the aegean. let's assume that turkey has not signed a treaty with libya. let us assume that turkey is not blackmailing europe with the migration issue. i would then understand the lukewarm attitude of our partners towards them. today, as we speak, the oruç reis went into service and some are celebrating. at the same time, barbaros and yavuz are docking in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. the aim should be de-escalation. if turkey is not severely sanctioned, all those who behave as they do today will be partly responsible for its actions.
mr president, high representative, it’s good that we will have a special european council on external affairs in 10 days. we really need it. look at the world around us –trump, putin, erdoğan, they all challenge the status quo in europe. europe stands by and watches, instead of living up to its ambition to become a strong geopolitical actor. take turkey, which we are debating today, an eu candidate country. our relations have been under strain for a long time and not because of the eu’s actions, but because of turkey’s actions. yes, we need to stay on speaking terms, but let’s be honest and acknowledge that this turkey cannot join europe. we need to stop the accession negotiations and build a strong, new partnership with turkey. this should be our message ahead of the special european council. (applause)
mr president, with the pandemic and its health, economic and social consequences, there has been a lot of talk in our european institutions about european solidarity. however, it is time - and urgent - for this solidarity to apply unconditionally and resolutely to our greek and cypriot member states. in the eastern mediterranean, there is no hesitation to have. without a reminder of this fundamental and essential principle, which is vital for the european union, which is solidarity, we will not be able to achieve de-escalation and dialogue, because, of course, it is dialogue and negotiation that will make it possible to resolve these longstanding and numerous disputes between the member states and turkey. however, we must not be under any illusions: to engage in a dialogue in good faith, we must first be able to support the provocateurs' balance of power and to support mr erdoğan's verbal and military balance of power is to show our capacity and our solidarity. in this respect, attention should be paid to the ambiguity surrounding the concept of mediation in the european union. the european union is not a mediator in this crisis: it must support de-escalation and dialogue, but remains an actor alongside all its member states.
mr president, yesterday evening we all got an email from the turkish minister of foreign affairs to our mailing list with some explanations and proof of its rights. in the last sentence of the letter, they say, ‘as a candidate country, we expect the eu and the european parliament to maintain an equal distance to the parties.’ first of all, i think 99% of this house agrees on one thing today: turkey will never be part of the eu, part of europe. our histories are too different. our religions are too different. our ideologies are too different. that’s why i have a question for mr borrell. as you have seen today, we all agree on one thing. for how much longer will we give the turkish side the opportunity to say ‘as a candidate country’? just take it away. it stops. we know very well that at least greece, france, estonia and many other countries will never accept the idea of turkey in the eu. we will never accept spending our taxpayers’ money and billions on turkey while it supports mosques and radical islam in the eu. can you say when it will be possible to say it is no longer a candidate country of the eu?
mr president, madam president of the commission! the eu-china summit took place just last week, and i believe that this summit has shown us once again how important it is that the european union is prepared for the future and is also independent. i think that when we talk about industrial policy we have to be clear about this - and this was the area where you said you might not go into detail, but i want to bring it up again. in these industries, i believe there are two where we can be world leaders and where we can also set the standards, as you have said: the european hydrogen industry and the european battery cell industry. i believe that in our two commissioners, timmermans and šefčovič, we have two people who have already caused a sensation worldwide with concrete measures. what we still lack are these very concrete legislations. i mean, to quote a chinese philosopher, demand a lot from yourself and expect little from others. if we follow this principle, we will be successful in the future.
mr president, today we are in the hurricane called covid. very soon we will be in the hurricane called brexit. both will test the european union, our society, our economy and the faith of our citizens. this is why we need strong leadership now, a strong eu that helps citizens and keeps europeans and european businesses safe – something that citizens have been waiting for since the spring. the commission does not need new powers to do it. let’s exploit its existing ones. you must accelerate your actions and grant additional aid and exceptions to our industry. now is really not the time to burden them with new regulations. president von der leyen, the eu economy is a ship in a hurricane and we need a captain to navigate us safely to shore. i hope you will be that captain.
madam president, you have said that you do not want to tolerate the breach of european law. but what is happening in moria, on our outer borders? it wasn't just the refugee camp that burned in moria. the european law and the european legal community have been burning at the external borders for years. it's on fire. the current foreign policy on asylum and refugees is a violation of europe's own rights. and we see the same thing with bulgaria: for months, people have been demonstrating against impunity and corruption in the country, with no response from the european commission. many everyday products contain banned chemicals which are against european law. germany is a money laundering haven against european law. and in the same way, we find numerous violations in the area of fundamental rights. so my request to you for the coming year is that you be more consistent in your role as guardian of the treaties. you can file a breach of contract. the blockade imposed by the member states is not your fault. but you can enforce european law and thereby strengthen respect for our legal community and for the european project.
mr president, first of all i would like to focus on one of the biggest topics for the next year: the new migration pact. i’ve seen this idea that was proposed already, and i think the most remarked thing is that the commission is going forward to push the idea of migration codes and of relocation for migrants. i don’t have to be very smart or clever to understand that it’s going to be like a huge conflict between the member states. the problem is that several countries have pushed this idea, like german or sweden, and have practised their open borders immigration policy. they have ignored the fact that absolutely different cultures and religions don’t fit together. it doesn’t work. and now they’re trying to export their problems to other member states. liebe frau von der leyen, lassen sie also deutschland oder schweden in ihren ländern so regieren, wie sie es möchten, aber machen sie nicht andere länder für deren fatale fehler verantwortlich, und lösen sie ihre migrationsprobleme allein.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president michel, i have the impression that every time the important european institutions, especially in a time of crisis, come together to decide something, they only show how torn this continent is and how this continent is now adrift, a secondary continent, a victim of the wrong political choices made especially in the last twenty years. you started your speech by talking about foreign policy, talking about what you've decided about the various geopolitical hotbeds around europe and my colleagues have mentioned it: foreign dictators make fun of us when they see these decisions. you have sanctioned belarus, but you have forgotten to sanction the leader of that country, who is responsible for what is happening. as usual, you praised the attitude towards turkey, which remains a lewd attitude, an attitude which allows erdoğan, the turkish dictator, to make fun of the european institutions, to make fun of the european member states and to continue to challenge and provoke the european union and the member states by doing whatever he wants, without us being able to take decisive action. it is again a totally incoherent approach, where we indulge foreign dictators while allowing ourselves to debate the rule of law, the behaviour of certain member states, forgetting, once again, that it is not the european union that legitimises the member states, but the states that legitimize the union: that's a concept we should all have more respect for. the second point, which i'll close with, is what i think is the most important: there was talk of the recovery fund, there was a big deal in july, but what is left on the table? it remains a pending agreement; we do not know when and how the money will arrive and the impact, as seen in the figures published by the commission, is absolutely minimal. next year, in 2021, if there is an agreement, 6% of the amount will be paid. in the face of a double-digit gdp decline for my country, we will receive a support of 0.16% of gdp: i am not sure that this will change the future and the destiny of the european union. but we are sure that taxes will come, what you call your own resources. there's going to be a plastic tax on january 1st. you will say: "great" helps because it allows us to attract resources and it also allows us to reduce the use of non-recycled plastic. but once again, two o'clock. either we have a source of funding, through a european tax, or we have a reduction in plastics: it is not possible to achieve both objectives at the same time. i would like to conclude with a reflection which i would like to see at the next european council. we are in the midst of the greatest crisis of the european union and its member states, an external crisis that does not depend on us. we made a pact for stability and growth, precisely because in times of difficulty we need stability and growth, and what happens instead? at a time when we are facing the greatest crisis, when we need stability and growth, we must suspend this pact! this is a reflection i would like to see in the next council.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what strikes me about the conclusions of the european council is the asymmetry in the treatment of the belarusian, chinese, russian and turkish cases. the authorities of these four countries are daily and brutally flouting the very principles of democracy and, at the international level, are systematically opposing the force of the established fact to the law. but now only lukashenko's regime is being sanctioned, and who knows, the autocrat may be spared, when just two days ago, his riot police arrested 11 reporters and even a 13-year-old girl. it's a major threat. in the face of china, heads of state and government still refuse to mention the uighur minority, whose one million citizens are imprisoned in re-education camps. in the case of russia, we will simply ask for an investigation into the poisoning of vladimir putin's opponent, alexei navalny. turkey is once again invited to dialogue as erdoğan continues his vendetta against the political opposition, journalists, academics, human rights activists and multiplies military adventures abroad. like you, mr michel, i believe in the virtues of dialogue, but i also believe that we must be able to resist if we want to be respected. the european union's willingness to resist is inversely proportional to the dependence it accepts on its neighbours: trade dependence on china, energy dependence on russia, asylum and migration dependence on turkey. we must therefore find the means of greater autonomy. the relocation of our economy, like the energy transition, is part of this. similarly, a union capable of taking its fair share in welcoming refugees and migrants would be less vulnerable to the blackmail of the potentates to whom we have unwisely entrusted the keys to our borders. and it is not the commission's recent proposals, mr vice-president, that will bring europe out of this undignified myth of the fortress. more than all this, ladies and gentlemen, what devalues the european union's voice is its inability to enforce within itself the rule of law that it wants to be the herald of abroad. and let us not be mistaken, the infringements of freedoms are not the exclusive property of the two usual suspects. the repression of the right to protest in france, the chovanec case in belgium, the discriminatory treatment of catalan prisoners in spain or the way we treat refugees at our borders remind us that no member state should enjoy a presumption of exemplarity and that our vigilance must be permanent. this is the meaning of the european parliament's resolute commitment in the current negotiations on the union's budget and its recovery plan. we want the european union to have an effective instrument to enforce a simple principle: the benefits of membership require respect for the foundations of democracy and our values, starting with respect for human dignity, the dignity of all human beings, here and elsewhere. a more balanced interdependence, a capacity to assume responsibility and a greater coherence with the values it proclaims are, mr president, the conditions for a more geopolitical european union. but for that, we must also provide the means. the means of effective common action in external affairs, such as budgetary or fiscal matters, the rule of unanimity puts the union at the mercy of the most extreme views. it's time to abolish it.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, i shall try to keep to the usual speaking time. one of the last points in the council conclusions is armenia. that is, of course, a great pity, because we see that it is also the weakest part of these conclusions. in 2012, the european union was awarded the nobel peace prize, and i sometimes wonder why. i have the impression that mr trump has achieved more in the united states in four years than the european union has in 20 years. if i take the list and now you must not be angry : kosovo, serbia, for the front door, economic normalisation thanks to the united states; israel, diplomatic relations with the united arab emirates and bahrain; in afghanistan peace negotiations after 20 years of war; north korea, the fat man, restrained through negotiation; a trade agreement between the united states, canada and mexico. yeah, that's not a bad thing. and mr michel, you can only make calls. i would say: a little more energy, a little more trumpism, maybe. because now, after ten years of a common european foreign policy, we see only weak potatoes, while there are means of pressure to put pressure on azerbaijan and turkey, but they dare not use them. i therefore propose a coalition of the willing of states, both in europe and hopefully also with the united states, to put pressure on these countries. it is a macabre thing, mr president, that 100 years after the armenian genocide we have only a few moral appeals. we have to do something. and if the eu cannot do that, then european states should do it themselves in cooperation with the united states, because at least they can show power. we only have: you weak little thing.
president of the council. mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to reply after this first round of speeches, it is a proof of the interactivity between the democratic european institutions. mr weber, you said: 'it is a good compromise, but there is no leadership'. and that is, in my view, the real issue for the future of the european union and that is why i started my message by stating that our objective should be: less dependence and more influence. and for the first time in the council, i chose to bring the debate on strategic autonomy in open economies to bear by supporting the multilateral model. the debate is not over, but it is a starting point for the debate, because europe is an economic power: the first trading power, the second economic power in the world. it is also a democratic power: we guarantee a world order based on values, on the rule of law, on the rule of law, values that inspire every action we have to take. and the question is how the europe of tomorrow can be more of a political power, with a positive effect inspired by our values, considering that the climate change pillar coupled with the digital change pillar are spaces within which we will exercise our strategic influence, as we have done in the past, for example, in the field of chemistry, or the processing of private data for example, that is the issue. and you will notice that since this new institutional cycle, just a few months ago, some clear choices have been made. china, for example. i remember that for a long time europe was totally divided. how do we approach the relationship with china? in a few months, through political work and dialogue between us, we have established a clear, strategic position and we are clearly expressing the message. when i speak to president xi about fundamental values, human rights, i don't look down, i speak about the uyghurs. we do not have the same political model, nor the same economic model. there are three points: we want to engage with china, we believe in the virtues of dialogue, we believe china is a partner in dealing with issues like covid and climate issues. you will also notice that china, like south africa, has committed itself to climate neutrality. it is not enough, we must remain vigilant, but it is a step that shows that we have an influence, it is going in the right direction. and finally, i would also like to highlight another point that i would like to highlight so as not to sound like i have not heard. the sanctions issue: belarus, turkey, differences of opinion on the sanctions issue. in my view, as in the view of the european council, sanctions are not an end in themselves. sanctions are a tool. they are one element, along with many others at the international level, that could perhaps be made more coherent, not just for a geopolitical commission, but for a geopolitical european union. i think that is the direction we should be taking. once the sanctions have been activated, it can be decided to ease them, to remove them, to extend them, to make them more severe, and it is in this spirit that a choice has been made in full conscience. we are calling for an inclusive dialogue, mr weber, in the context of belarus, we are calling for the csos to play a role and we will regularly come back to the issue of belarus to see how we should act and perhaps make decisions based on the positive or negative developments that will occur. turkey now. clear and unambiguous solidarity with greece and cyprus. we are defending sovereignty. we are defending sovereign rights. the first impact, albeit slight and timid, was that even before the european council, the prospect of a resumption of dialogue between greece and turkey, after weeks of tension throughout the summer, was open. it is not enough, it is fragile, not naïve, but it is a first effect, it is a first impact, it seems to me. in cyprus, a few hours ago, the yavuz ship left the water. it is not enough, we will remain attentive, vigilant, and i will be in contact on behalf of the european union with president erdoğan to see how i can, on behalf of the union, act on the ground, showing both firmness (in terms of principles and international law) but also openness to engage in more positive discussions if there is a common will. i also fully support the un process, i hope that after the elections in the northern part of the island, which are due to take place in october, there will be the capacity for the un to relaunch this dialogue and that is why i have indicated that in this dialogue several central and difficult issues will have to be discussed through dialogue and i hope that progress can be made, such as the question of sharing the revenues related to hydrocarbons which is one subject with others that must be discussed. and finally, europe is at the meeting when, for example, we take the initiative of this multilateral conference on this part of the mediterranean to bring together those who sometimes have common views but also sometimes different views on maritime disputes, on energy issues, on security issues, on economic development issues. that, ladies and gentlemen, is how i see the role of the european union and so i respond, mr weber, to a good compromise, no leadership, i roll up my sleeves for a european leadership with less dependence and more influence.
mr president, mr president michel, i would like to thank you for your reply. what you just said is very exciting. but i have the impression that it is not the european council that meets most of the time, but the council of european states. what do i mean? i have the impression that in the body you chair, the member states very, very often do not care about the common european interest, they do not have in mind that if we stand together, if we make compromises, if we try to find a common european solution, that this could help everyone together, but i have the impression that you chair a body in which many sit who think that if they put their national interest first, they will achieve more. that's why we're not making any progress on a lot of issues. what is the situation in the single market? you said in the last council that we want to develop and strengthen the internal market. but we are seeing in many areas that national markets are closing in. you mentioned the issue of climate policy. we are not going to be able to do that. but i see that many member states still refuse to make the corresponding contribution that each country must make. you are talking about the common foreign and security policy. but we have seen again this weekend that the focus was not on a common european foreign and security policy, but on the way in which the member states have put their national interests first again. in this sense, i hope that you will have the strength to bring a mood in your body and create a mood that the member states and their heads of state and government really see the european interest and we hope that these national things, which we have seen in recent months, will come back together again... (microphone off)
madam president, mr vice-president šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen of the council! many important points have been raised today. i would like to mention one more important point, however, namely the future of our digital development in the european union. i think it is indisputable that the green deal will only succeed if we as the european union also understand new technologies. now i'm primarily concerned with how we deal with the 5g developments. 5g is very crucial for the future of the european union, and we see that we are lagging behind here too - lagging behind china, behind the us, behind south korea, and also behind japan. now, the question is how the european union can help, and we have good examples here, for example in the form of the important projects of common european interest, the so-called ipcei, which, thanks to your efforts, mr šefčovič, we also have in the area of the battery industry. we should also use them in the field of 5g technology, because without them we will fall further behind in international comparison.
madam president, between 3 000 and 4 000 jihadists have been transferred from syria to armenia by turkey, as emmanuel macron himself has admitted. thousands of islamic mercenaries guilty of war crimes by daesh, sent by erdoğan to commit others and continue the armenian genocide perpetrated 80 years ago by the ottoman empire. between 1.2 and 1.5 million victims, a genocide that the turkish authorities have never recognized, and whose recognition by other states was called by erdoğan the greatest insult. but history is not an insult! a history that erdoğan would like to rewrite, since all his maneuvers converge towards a single goal: to reconstitute the ottoman empire, to regain the role of leader of the sunni islamic world, which turkey had during the caliphate. a project that he has assumed, including in his official propaganda videos: military actions in syria and libya, the barely concealed proximity to the islamic state, the orchestration of a real migrant invasion in greece, the destruction of churches in anatolia, piracy of cypriot resources in the mediterranean, the transformation of the hagia sophia into a mosque and now the incursion into the territory of armenia, the oldest christian country in the world. all of erdoğan's actions are of this neo-ottoman inspiration and meanwhile the council has a strong taste for the litot. in its conclusions of 2 october, it strongly condemned the violations of the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus, which must cease. but this has been going on for 50 years, 50 years that turkey has occupied half the territory of a member state, and you still want, and i quote, a dialogue in good faith. retaliatory measures could have been taken on the money of the accession process, on eib financing, on the necessary securing of the borders of greece and bulgaria, on the suspension of the customs union, which allows turkey to do 40% of its external trade with the european union. but nothing. i didn't say anything. europe is afraid of turkey and the response is tragic, the council has once again given in to this permanent racket, balzac reminds us, saying that resignation is daily suicide. if the nations of europe are unable to give him a response that is up to the challenge, erdoğan could succeed tomorrow in fulfilling his imperialist and islamist dream, while once again here in brussels we are discussing the sex of angels.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that we are in a difficult situation because of a continuing health crisis with far-reaching socioeconomic consequences. there is great uncertainty about what can happen with the vaccines, about the effectiveness of some anti-corona measures, about the economic prospects in the short and medium term and so on. this uncertainty is causing the downward spiral to continue rather than reverse, and it is imperative that strong action be taken at all levels of public policy to reverse it. the eu is lacking in this area today. i refer here, for example, to the negotiations on the new multiannual budget and the recovery and resilience facility. clear, clear and forward-looking measures on these matters could already make a big difference and could remove a great deal of uncertainty. but that signal stays off. the effective launch of that much-needed recovery fund is a long way off. that has nothing whatsoever to do with the attitude of parliament. this is all due to the fact that the council makes no or hardly any meaningful proposals on parliament's suggestions for improving the measures currently in place. i can only express the hope that this situation will soon be reversed and that we will soon have meaningful answers to very meaningful proposals.
the european council has once again indulged the turkish bourgeoisie by rushing to sanction belarus. the european union-turkey relations are chained by strong economic, political and military interests, with miserable agreements on refugees. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis, and that the fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis. that is why there has been no mention of turkey's interventions in syria, libya, iraq, cyprus or its specific role in nagorno-karabakh. the common objective of the european union, the united states, nato, their bourgeois classes, greece and turkey, as well as the governments and bourgeois parties, is to set up a negotiating table for co-operation, at the expense of sovereign rights in the aegean and the south-eastern mediterranean, with a view to a bipartisan solution to the cyprus problem under euro-atlantic supervision, with nato as a policeman, and that is why mr stoltenberg is in athens. the only way out for the peoples is the struggle to disengage from imperialist projects, with a break from the european union and nato and with the people taking command of the wealth of their land.
madam president, the european union is not just a single market, a common market, but a community of values, as we hear every day. we'll leave that for a moment. the question of whether community of values is not ideological identity, and let alone the question of how community of values is being destroyed by the left-wing, liberal, federalist approach that is waging a militant, aggressive, partisan, ideological struggle. let's not talk about this right now. it is not just a common market, but a community of values, but that does not mean that we should forget about the common market, the single market. today, in the european parliament, nobody, except the epp, in the whole world, is talking about job creation. today, no one in the european parliament except the epp is talking about how to solve the common economic problems of the european union. or if a member of the european parliament from the left, liberal, green or communist parties were to speak on economic issues, they would not do so, because they are driven by their own ideological biases to come up with ideas that destroy the competitiveness of the european union's economy. they do this in a situation where 20 years ago the european union contributed 24 to 25 percent of the world's economic output, and today that contribution has fallen to 15 percent. so let's not talk about it, let's talk about the economy: job creation, job creation, job creation.
madam president, the climate emergency is a race we are losing, said un secretary-general antónio guterres last weekend. this is a fact that more and more of us are sharing. this new european mandate and the green pact for europe therefore sound like the last chance. but i cannot help but notice that behind the shocking phrases of the commission or the council and the fine declarations of intent, there is still no real act and, worse still, there is still no agreement on the means of achieving these questions. i see that we are moving in a disorderly direction and that we are lacking in consistency. i would not like, at this point in my speech, to see the recovery plan hide the weakness of the multiannual financial framework. yes, we need real means to implement our public policies. yes, the coronavirus crisis has shown how much public policy needs to be implemented. we need genuine own resources, today and tomorrow, to meet our major political challenges. the planet is dying, biodiversity is dying, humanity is dying, we don't have time for another failure.
madam president, the images we have seen from belarus were both horrific and inspiring. we have seen brutal repression but we’ve seen also belarusian society that stood up for their rights. the struggle in belarus is not over and belarusians need our support now more than ever. the decision last week to impose sanctions was the correct one, but waiting 55 days was far too long and, of course, the main question is why the elephant in the room, mr lukashenko, is not on the list this time? these actions are important, but the european union must find additional ways how to support belarusians in their day-to-day struggle towards freedom.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. given the results of last week's eu summit, which are being presented here today, it is indeed a summit, a summit of confusion and denial of reality - so it is no surprise at all. as usual, merkel, macron and co. are already bragging about the distribution of a coronavirus vaccine that does not yet exist. and the weak economy of our single market is supposed to help get their green all-purpose pill back on its feet. do you seriously believe in this quackery yourself? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but if anyone now assumes that you, who obviously know nothing about economics, will at least use the summit to put a definite stop to the choleric would-be sultan erdoğan, he is greatly mistaken. the abolition of the customs union is nothing! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. since you are so fond of using the word solidarity, where is your real support for greece and cyprus, whose territorial integrity - and not least our external borders - are threatened by the turks? you wanted them, too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the armenian genocide was committed in the country of azerbaijan, and that the armenian genocide was committed in the country of azerbaijan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a very clear positioning would be indicated. the eu is and unfortunately remains a toothless tiger in foreign policy, which no one takes seriously. they just can't, and that's sad.
mr president, two weeks ago the british parliament voted for a government bill giving british soldiers immunity for war crimes, including unlawful killing and torture. the british government wear their contempt for what they would refer to as ‘foreign laws’, just as they wear their hostility to the eu, as a badge of honour. the evidence is in their flagrant violation of the withdrawal agreement and our good friday agreement. the european council would do well to face up to the reality that britain is not interested in being a friendly neighbour. they will seek to destroy jobs across the european union, to drive down pay and conditions and environmental standards, both in britain and in the eu. i urge the european council to hold firm in rejecting british provocations, in asserting international law, and in defending the interests of ireland and the eu.
madam president, the european council has spoken about turkey, china, belarus and nagorno-karabakh. it was necessary, and it's really good. the world should hear europe's voice, even if it is a little timid, but we europeans also want to hear europe's voice when there are abuses and violations of fundamental rights within our borders. is there nothing to say about a state that removes two consecutive presidents from a national minority for purely political reasons? is there nothing to say about a prosecutor proposing a constitutional rehabilitation program for political prisoners? is there nothing to say about a state that condemns the country's most important university for demanding the release of political prisoners and defending freedom of expression? to be credible, to be influential elsewhere, the council should also talk about all this.
madam president, the council should adopt the decision on the european union's own resources as soon as possible. without that, parliament cannot approve the financial framework. the recovery plan is not a joint debt, because no member state puts its own money in: it is european debt. but it is also not free money that comes without the states having to raise taxes or issue debt, although to many it will seem like free money. so without knowing where the money to pay will come from, we cannot approve the financial framework. if we do not understand what we are doing, we may end up dismantling the european project so that the member states can divide up the pieces. it is unacceptable that this parliament does not control the spending of the recovery plan. it is unacceptable that european policies are being cut in the budget. it is unacceptable that the commission should issue debt without us knowing when and how it will be paid. it is unacceptable that respect for the rule of law is not considered a condition. it would be unacceptable for the european union to make a brexit of itself. this parliament must be prepared to oppose the next financial framework from being a means of building up europe to being a means of destroying it. it is unacceptable that we are having a debate with the council here and the council has no member present. it is a demonstration of what the council thinks of this parliament. it is completely unacceptable that the council should regard us as an irrelevant institution. and i call on the presidency to either send a note of protest to the council or to suspend this debate immediately until the council is back in session.
madam president, maroš šefčovič has brought the subject of brexit to this debate and has done very well in stressing the importance of maintaining the unity of the european union, the council and parliament at this crucial stage. i want to support the timely and firm initiative of the president of the commission and vice-president šefčovič to open an infringement procedure against the united kingdom for breach of good faith duties in implementing the withdrawal agreement. the commission has done the only thing it could and should have done. on behalf of the socialist group i would also like to support the efforts of mr barnier's team to reach an agreement on the future relationship by the end of october. we want an agreement, but we demand a good agreement and there is an essential principle to be remembered: any agreement which gives the united kingdom access to the european market with zero tariffs and zero quotas must also ensure zero dumping, which means not allowing any backsliding in our environmental, social and labour protection standards. the end of october is indeed the deadline because this parliament does not waive the democratic scrutiny of any agreement.
president, commissioner, i think we just heard an impassioned charles michel say: we are for a stronger europe, less dependent, more influential. i share that, of course. i am also glad that he was able to reach an agreement in difficult circumstances. but let's be honest, colleagues - and we've heard it here several times - we should actually say: too slow, too soft and not united enough. - it's too slow. two months after the uprisings in belarus. and actually, about hong kong, how long have we been talking about it? but when will there be action? it's too soft. yes, sanctions, but without a colleague called him the elephant in the room lukashenko on that list. and not united enough, when you see how much one country can block. it is very clear to me, ladies and gentlemen. we need to make a fist. we must be able to play geopolitical games, and then we must reform the union. we have to get rid of the unanimity rule. i therefore call on the council and the commission: make it work.
i would like to call the european council to account here today. the european commission has already presented to the press on 23 september a so-called european union migration pact. but the european council, representing the member states, accepted that charles michel and the german presidency had kept this out of the agenda of the european summit of both 2 october and 15 october. the migration pact is nowhere to be found. the majority in the european parliament also rejected the migration pact from the plenary agenda. the fact that you all want to keep this pact out of the public eye is totally abnormal and totally unacceptable. migration is the top issue for the citizens of the member states you are to represent. ladies and gentlemen, last saturday, in this very room, at a meeting of the belgian parliament, the new belgian government was installed, after the previous one had fallen at the end of october 2018 - almost two years ago - over the united nations migration pact, which was signed by charles michel on behalf of belgium, against the will of his own government. that's why the government fell. the opinion of the population on the migration pact is now known. the flemish interest, my party, which opposed this, came back here in the european parliament with three times as many seats as before. your migration pact is in the same globalist line: the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on asylum, and the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on asylum. i therefore call on the council to put opposition to this european union pact on migration on the agenda immediately. enough is enough. the people of the eu do not want more but less immigration, not more but less open borders. stop, in the words of viktor orbán, this globalist madness.
madam president! the decisions on sanctions against the belarusian regime are good news from the council summit. the union must have a firm and consistent position on this issue. only through political and economic pressure can we effectively stop the violence that is lukashenko's only means of maintaining his power today. the council conclusions concluded that in addition to declarations and gestures of solidarity, concrete support for the processes of democratic change in belarus is needed. since the beginning of this crisis, poland has demanded an economic plan for democratic belarus, which would include financial support, scholarship programs and facilitation of border crossing. i congratulate prime minister morawiecki on his successful pursuit of this idea and hope that the commission will successfully implement this plan. the last few months should also convince many member states to undertake a decisive review of relations with russia, which is the main source of instability and conflict in our immediate neighbourhood. more than ever, abandoning the nord stream 2 project seems to be a necessary step today.
the conclusions call for a de-escalation of tensions and support for dialogue in the case of the eastern mediterranean, where the european union must defend its sovereignty, and the intensifying conflict in nagorno-karabakh. i welcome the agreement on measures for 40 belarusian officials. however, this list is not complete without self-proclaimed president lukashenko. we owe it to the citizens who endure the repression of the regime and persist in protest. this demonstrates the need for a qualified sanctions decision-making process in an increasingly tense neighbourhood and global foreign policy environment. it is encouraged by china's announcement to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060, with a clear reminder of the unacceptable human rights situation and the need to level the playing field. the council's political agreement is not the final of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament has clearly communicated its mandate in terms of amount and priorities. parliament must be seen as a co-legislator, the rule of law as a prerequisite for withdrawing funds with its own means of recovery are in the interest of the citizens who gave us direct legitimacy.
mr. chairman of the board! i've been listening to the debate very closely and it's been really interesting. i would like to mention the issues of the economy, unemployment and the greenhouse effect. isn't it funny that we're always talking about rising unemployment, economic problems and an unprecedented crisis, but we're solving economic problems with a huge amount of loans, 750 billion euros, that we don't know anything about repaying? we are planning new european taxes to finance a loan that nobody knows how to do anything with, and we are not really fixing the fundamental problems in the economy. we talk about declining global competitiveness against china, russia and the united states, and at the same time we think we're solving our economic problems with a global mindless loan package to finance the green revolution. a grassroots movement to supposedly save the world by going along with the climate policy craziness that is pure fanaticism. and at the same time, to make up for the energy deficit, we import cheap gas from russia, for example, through nord stream 2 to germany, which is very green and globally saving the world. it's called hypocrisy and hypocrisy! we have destroyed our economic competitiveness through over-regulation, bureaucracy and centralisation and now we are trying to solve the fundamental problems by creating new problems in the long term. no new european tax will solve the economic problems, it is a basic principle which you may not understand, because what is wrong with sitting on a good enough salary from taxpayers' money?
mr president, i would like to thank the high representative for his remarks and comments. i would like to share some thoughts as the chair of the south caucasus delegation after i spoke to my counterparts, mr arman yeghoyan and mr javanshir feyziyev. the eu does not have a formal role in the minsk group negotiations, but that does not mean that we should not be active, vocal and crystal clear about our messages. we are talking about our eastern partnership and we are talking about our eastern partners. first, we should convince the political leaderships of both sides to establish a ceasefire and protect civilians. reports, if they are true, about the use of cluster bombs are very worrisome and, high representative, i agree that we need clear facts and information from the region. second, we should convince both sides to return to the negotiations without preconditions and with good faith and commitment so that this time there will be a solution based on un resolutions, minsk group basic principles and international law. third, we should urge other regional powers, especially russia and turkey, to stay out of the military conflict. the interference of any outside elements will expand the conflict and make the escalation more difficult. war is never a solution. the people of nagorno—karabakh deserve long—lasting peace and prosperity.
mr. chairman of the board! it's a very interesting subject. first of all, i would like to say that i am quite familiar with this subject, since my home party in estonia is in government and the chairman of our party is the minister of finance. and in estonia, between 2005 and 2014, there was a very large-scale money laundering, which was then organized through the branch of the danish bank, danske bank in estonia, in russia, basically in the northern and western countries. but i don't agree with the solution that's being proposed here. the european commission and a large part of the european parliament are also calling for the creation of a new institution, the creation of a new bureaucracy, the granting of more powers, the reduction of the powers of the member states. but i know very well from the example of our country: in the last year that we have been in government, it is possible to investigate criminal cases of money laundering if there is political will. we have concluded very effective agreements, we have tightened criminal laws, we have imposed new obligations on banks, and all this without much help or political pressure from the european commission and the european parliament, so thank you for offering to help us fight money laundering, but we politely decline.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, as the s&d shadow, first of all, i’d like to thank our rapporteur kris peeters and all the other shadows for the constructive work and i’d like to congratulate us all on a balanced and forward—looking report. this topic is very close to my heart. i come from estonia, a country where we have had the privilege of enjoying the benefits of online services for almost 30 years and i will continue in estonian. covid-19 kriis tõestas kogu maailmale seda, mida meie eestis oleme teadnud digiühiskonnast juba ligi kolmkümmend aastat. me oleme harjunud võimalustega, mida digiteenused pakuvad, ja me teame väljakutseid ning ohte, mida digiteenuste kasutamine kaasa toob. olen veendunud, et toimiv digitaalne ühisturg toob majanduslikku ja ühiskondlikku kasu igale inimesele, igale liikmesriigile – euroopa liidule tervikuna. ja mul on hea meel, et oleme jõudnud digiteenuseid reguleeriva korra ülevaatamiseni ja kaasajastamiseni euroopa liidu tasemel. e-kaubanduse direktiiv võeti vastu kakskümmend aastat tagasi. see vajab kaasajastamist. ootan huviga komisjoni digiteenuste õigusakti ettepanekut ja loodan, et see arvestab meie raportis tehtud ettepanekutega, mis keskenduvad eelkõige põhiõigustele ja andmekaitsele. nimetan neist olulisemaid. digiteenused peavad tuginema kehtivatele euroopa liidu õigusaktidele, kaasa arvatud isikuandmete kaitse üldmäärusele ja e-privaatsuse direktiivile. peab olema tagatud õiglane digitaalne ökosüsteem, kus järgitakse põhiõigusi, eelkõige väljendus- ja teabevabadust, ning igasugune diskrimineerimine on välistatud. see, mis on ebaseaduslik väljaspool internetti, peab olema ebaseaduslik ka veebis ning kõrvaldatud. digiteenuste osutajatele, sh veebiplatvormidele peavad olema kehtestatud selged ja konkreetsed kohustused ebaseadusliku sisu kõrvaldamiseks. paranema peab koostöö teenustepakkujate ja liikmesriikide ametiasutuste vahel. jätkuvalt peab olema keelatud üldine järelevalvekohustus, mis on täna sätestatud e-kaubanduse direktiivis. seejuures tuleb rõhutada, et tänaste automaatsete vahenditega ei ole võimalik piisavalt analüüsida ja mõista veebisisu ning lõpliku otsuse tegemine peab jääma inimesele. olen veendunud, et digiteenuste turg ei saa olla täielik ja täiuslik ilma üleeuroopalise kehtiva digitaalse id-ta. loodan, et komisjon kiirendab tegevusi elektroonilise identifitseerimise määruse jõustamiseks üle kogu euroopa liidu territooriumi, sest praeguse tempoga ei saa rahul olla. ning tunnustan euroopa liidu nõukogu käesoleva aasta oktoobri järeldusi, milles rõhutatakse isikute turvalise identifitseerimise vajadust läbi euroopa liidu ülese raamistiku. tahan rõhutada ka küberjulgeoleku aspekte, nii tavainimese – tarbija aspektist kui ka teenuste pakkumise aspektist. me kõik vajame koolitust, me kõik vajame pädevat tarbijat. head kolleegid, kutsun teid kõiki üles hääletama kõigi kolme raporti poolt.
thank you, thank you very much, to the president and to the good debaters! i'd mention two points in that one minute if i had time. first of all, again, this climate policy, climate neutrality and climate hysteria. to this day, no one in this room has been able to prove how much global warming will affect us, if we just shut down all farms tomorrow, shut down all factories, stop all co2 emissions, no one has been able to prove how that will affect global warming, and that's why it's very silly and funny to hear in this room that we're fighting for climate neutrality, even though no one in this room knows how that will actually affect global warming or climate change in the long run. not to mention the double standard that most of us drive to work and fly home, but we're all fighting for climate neutrality. and the second inequality: we talk about solidarity, the single market, the european union's common agricultural policy, but to this day, even in the case of estonia, we have been a member state for 16 years, but the estonian farmer receives one third less agricultural subsidies than the german or french producer. but we have the same market and the same conditions. it is indeed the solidarity of the european union that we love and defend so much here. thank you!
rapporteur. – madam president, the npt or the treaty on the non—proliferation of nuclear weapons entered into force over 50 years ago, in march 1970. the treaty consists of three mutually reinforcing pillars which deal respectively with the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, nuclear disarmament and the civilian use of nuclear energy. the treaty has been joined by 191 nations, which is the overwhelming majority of the global community, including all five of the recognised nuclear weapons states. as such the treaty represents the only binding commitment by the five permanent members of the un security council to work towards global nuclear disarmament. at the 1995 review conference the treaty’s duration was extended indefinitely. a review conference of the treaty is held every five years, but regrettably every other one of those review conferences in this century has ended without a consensus regarding the final document. therefore i believe that it is of critical importance that the 50—year anniversary review conference, already postponed once because of the covid pandemic, be a success. our 27 member states joined the npt as individual nations, but i believe that in order to contribute to the success of the upcoming review conference, it is necessary that a strong consensus position be forged among the eu member states. the recommendations to the council that we are going to vote on at this week’s plenary session are aimed at helping the member states to agree on such a position. i would argue that regarding its central objectives, the npt has been relatively successful during the past half century. the nightmare scenarios painted during and after the cold war regarding the proliferation of nuclear weapons to dozens of countries around the world have not materialised, and after the end of the cold war the nuclear arsenals of russia and the united states were brought down significantly from the peak numbers of warheads. yet significant problems and challenges remain as many of the objectives of the treaty have yet to be fulfilled and some important stones in the nuclear disarmament and non—proliferation architecture are still missing. the ctbt, or the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty, negotiated in the 1990s is still awaiting ratification by a number of its article 16 countries, and the proposed fissile material cut-off treaty is still under discussion at the un conference on disarmament, with not much tangible progress to show during the past several years. moreover, even though a vast majority of the global community of nations have joined the npt, there are still some outliers, including countries that are known or believed to be in possession of nuclear weapons or are believed to have pursued nuclear weapons programmes in the past. it must be noted that, with the exception of the five nuclear weapon states, all other countries are only able to accede to the npt as non-nuclear weapon states. while the immediate accession of the remaining outliers is thus not likely, a question remains as to how to make sure that they would not contribute to global or regional proliferation of nuclear weapons materials and know-how. there are additional clouds on the horizon. over the past several years, we have seen gradual erosion of important arms control regimes that have for decades been a critical element of european security. following the consistent violations by russia, the us has left the inf, the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, last year. the future of the jcpoa, the so-called iran nuclear deal, remains uncertain. the us announcement that it would leave the open skies treaty throws in doubt the future of an important transparency and confidence building instrument. as the new start treaty is expected to expire next year it is inevitable that the growing level of tensions and mistrust do not contribute positively to the atmosphere of negotiating its successor. yet when it comes to the future of nuclear disarmament, it is the two countries in possession of the bulk of global nuclear arsenals that bear the greatest responsibility. perhaps even more worrisome is the increasing reliance by some nuclear weapon states on those weapons in their military doctrines. with nuclear disarmament efforts having stalled significantly, a new delivery system is being designed and built, the danger of intentional or unintentional escalation involving the use or effective use of nuclear weapons is growing. all that is why the success of the npt review conference is of utmost importance for global as well as european security. but let me end with a word of caution. it is clear that our eventual goal must be a nuclear-free world and the elimination of nuclear weapons, but it is a goal that we must approach pragmatically, evaluating very carefully both the immediate and long-term security consequences and implications of each step along the way. a nuclear-free world cannot be negotiated and agreed upon without the participation of the five nuclear weapon states. no false parity must be created between the five nuclear weapon states and those actors that are pursuing nuclear weapons illegally. while on the one hand every nuclear warhead less is a step towards a more secure world, it is also true that the world where the only remaining nuclear weapons are the illegal ones is not a safer place for us to live in. therefore i strongly believe that while looking for all possible alternative avenues to reach our eventual goal, we should not choose the ones that risks bringing the time-tested npt and its review process to a standstill.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you, mr barnier, also for the clear words you have spoken today. but where are we? all citizens, societies and businesses on both sides of the english channel need to see things clearly. for johnson, it was about the central slogans of his brexit campaign, following the motto "what was to be proved". british sovereignty is achieved? or will the british have to continue to respect the standards we have set in the eu? will the european court of justice monitor compliance? access to the single market? if british products are exported without hindrance, will businessmen and service providers be able to travel freely through the eu? deregulation allowed? can the london financial community operate in our country and still be deregulated by 10 downing street? fishing only for brits? or are the fishing boats from other countries bordering the north and baltic seas allowed to continue catching fish wherever they swim? and do we look after the fish stocks together? we are also talking about our own stop lines. i would ask you not to think of putting off the clock and putting a minimum agreement on the table at the last minute before the european parliament and the member states. democracy would suffer further damage, because it could go wrong, in our european parliament and in some member states. we need a contract with our neighbours, but one of quality. the ep is clear on the issues: governance, level playing field, social and environmental standards, the public interest and the fisheries agreement and the full implementation of the good friday agreement.
mr president, i have always maintained that brexit was bad news for both the european union and the united kingdom, and time has shown us (inaudible words) that the negotiations for future relations are becoming increasingly complicated. they are moving in a sea of uncertainties in all areas, from the future of the fruit and vegetable production of my canary islands to fishing. and speaking of fisheries, i think it is more necessary than ever to reiterate our position today: no general agreement should be reached with the united kingdom unless there is first a stable, lasting and balanced fisheries agreement which maintains access to waters and the allocation of quotas and catches. the council has sent a very strong message in this regard and so has our chief negotiator, michel barnier. today it's our turn from here. the organization of fisheries is much more than the setting of a percentage of tacs and quotas. the current common fisheries policy strikes a delicate balance between economic benefit, social welfare and the preservation of fish stocks, and that balance cannot be lost. the fishermen of the european union and the united kingdom have shared the waters of our seas for centuries, and the new agreement cannot ignore that. the common fisheries policy is already a commitment between member states, including the united kingdom, which until last year has been involved in all the negotiations on its most important aspects, which also take account of its priorities and interests and from which it could continue to benefit for years to come. in this sense, the european union's position is not maximalist, as some might think. we in this parliament built this system together with the united kingdom and now we cannot lower or renege on that commitment, neither they nor we. our responsibility goes beyond the fishing fleets: it is also a commitment to people. we must not lose sight of the fact that any disruption of the present balance will have consequences for employment, from spain to sweden, and it is our duty as members of this parliament to fight for every one of those jobs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market bill, which has been passed by the house of commons, is a very serious act by the british government, an act which violates the withdrawal agreement and the uk's obligations to us. the prime minister, boris johnson, is not making any real progress on the points still under discussion, and there are now only ten days left until 31 october, the deadline for the procedure to be effectively completed. as the european union we want to reach an agreement in the common interest to continue cooperation in key areas - i am thinking of research, international cooperation, security, universities, i am thinking of the rights of european citizens in the united kingdom and vice versa - there are more than 600 000 italians in the united kingdom, for example, and these people, like all european citizens, cannot be left in the dark. today, to restore trust between us, we need to withdraw the law on the internal market and converge on a common governance mechanism, which ensures a clear framework with regard to state aid, competition, fisheries. after last week's council, the risk of no deal is real. as the european union we will do everything we can to avoid this and to reach an agreement, but johnson is wrong if he thinks we will get there at any cost. the european union is doing its part today, and i think it is necessary that the british government should do its part today.
mr president, mr bay of the id group is no longer here because his position is almost ridiculous. we have to stop punishing the british, we have to recognise british sovereignty more, but when it comes to fish, it's not the case anymore, so it's really ridiculous, it's nonsense! it's the same with mr eppink. mr eppink is explaining to us that we do not have to do it in a european way, but we have to do a bilateral deal. every country with the uk. the last time that you did this, you lost new york, i assume, when you got your negotiations with the british. so, if i have a suggestion to make, michel, it's the following. if we make a deal with the british - and i hope that there is a deal in the coming weeks - then we put in this final agreement, in this treaty - it's an international treaty - a provision that automatically that treaty ceases to exist if the british don't follow all the commitments that they have taken, including in the withdrawal agreement. in my opinion that is absolutely necessary because otherwise, if there is a deal, if there is an agreement, and the 27 will have ratified it, and they do not follow their commitments, it will be a huge mess and it will again be necessary for 27 decisions by the 27 member states to stop that agreement. so i think that, after what has happened with the internal market bill, it is in the interest of the european union to have such a provision in that final agreement as soon as possible. i hope that there is a deal because it is the only way to secure the good friday agreement, to secure peace in northern ireland and to secure our internal market. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i would like to thank you very much, mr verhofstadt. if you'll allow me to comment, it's a great pleasure to listen to you. your contributions are parliamentary and unread, and if you also cook a point, then all this is wonderful.
mr president, it’s always very funny to hear the speeches of mr verhofstadt, because he’s very active and funny and full of power and has been talking about the damage of brexit since 2016, saying that they’re going to lose everything and that we’re going to have to put huge pressure on the uk. well, since 2016, they have been doing pretty fine, actually. unfortunately, the eu is trying to mix together a green deal and climate history, while at the same time take huge loans with some kind of economic reforms, and they are declining more and more. at the same time, the uk and mr johnson are just playing with the eu. the eu is trying to play the tough guy, but at the same time it couldn’t manage any normal deal. here i am just talking about fisheries. so that’s why i wouldn’t take mr verhofstadt very seriously, because he was pretty wrong from 2016 to 2017 and it’s pretty clear and understandable that, if there is no deal before the end of the year, the eu stands to lose much more than the uk. in some ways i’m pretty happy about that. congratulations to mr johnson.
madam president, i should like to say to the high representative that it’s very symbolic that we are discussing the eastern partnership today, on the eve of awarding the 2020 sakharov prize to the democratic opposition of belarus. 2020 was a difficult year. our eastern partners faced serious and unforeseeable challenges. therefore, today more than ever, they expect – and rightly so – political commitment and resolute actions supporting their democratic processes. eastern partnership policy has not failed, but it needs reinforcement. as the chair of the delegation for relations with south caucasus, i have had regular contact with my partners and colleagues, but i also know how important it is to talk to people, civil society and human rights activists. today, i discussed the human rights situation in nagorno—karabakh and, more widely, in armenia, azerbaijan and georgia, with the women’s rights organisation kvinna till kvinna (‘woman to woman’). as this is most probably my last intervention this year, i would like to conclude with what they said to us parliamentarians: ‘do not forget ordinary people, especially minorities, when taking political decisions’.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the german chancellor said after last week's eu summit that she was proud that it was worth not sleeping. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have the right to decide on the future of the union. the european countries are suffering from the pandemic, but at least as much from the catastrophic crisis management in many places. europe's economy is in a state of flux. millions of jobs are at serious risk or have already been lost. but the government leaders have no answer to this other than to squander taxpayers' money indiscriminately as always. does anyone seriously believe that the incredible 1.8 trillion euros from the mff and the reconstruction plan - this unprecedented redistribution orgy - will be able to defuse anything in this crisis? nationalization and socialism have never been a workable solution, and this debt socialism will not be either. i deeply regret that the eu has managed to persuade poland and hungary to accept this misguided approach by means of a lazy compromise. with the so-called rule of law mechanism, the eu centralists now have the ultimate instrument to put on a course of harsh punishment for all those who do not support the left-green agenda in brussels. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. and you should try, mrs von der leyen, but perhaps first of all to ensure that the european treaties are respected. i refer in particular to article 125 tfeu. and as if all that wasn't bad enough, the summit is forcing europeans to set new, completely absurd climate targets for 2030. the summit basically decided to deindustrialize europe. in germany in particular, this will soon be very noticeable. the winners will be the united states and above all china. you know, it may have been a sleepless night for the heads of state and government, but millions of europeans, who are more than ever afraid for their future, for their existence, will have many sleepless nights in the face of these disastrous decisions.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union's budget for the financial year 2000 is a very good one. the european parliament is even calling for a doubling of the prefinancing of 20% instead of 10%, with planning, transparency, honest management and full respect for the rule of law. the multiannual budget, however, despite the increase of 16 billion which we achieved as the european parliament, remains inadequate. the european union cannot achieve its objectives with a budget of 1% of european gdp. that is why we are calling for the transaction tax to be moved forward, as well as the taxation of the digital giants, to change the rules of the stability pact and the debt arrangements in order to avoid a new round of harsh unilateral austerity. mr michel, in the face of turkish provocation, the summit was a waterloo. you continue to pet erdogan, who rightly celebrates your decisions. you continue to reject the overwhelming resolution of the european parliament, which, by 631 votes to 3, calls for severe sanctions against the erdogan regime. because only then can erdogan be forced to respect international law and good neighborliness. mr michel and mrs von der leyen, the second wave of the pandemic and the great recession do not allow for self-expression and exaggeration. more and faster steps are needed to shield public health, economic recovery and reduce dangerously rising social inequalities.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a terrible year for many people is coming to an end. but europe has outgrown itself this year. we still remember the bad situation at the beginning of the year, with the borders closed and the national unilateral moves. now we have the situation: europe is able to act, we have set up the budget for the future, we have adopted the corona-building package, and the first developed vaccine has been developed in the european union, also with european support. the commission has made a substantial contribution, mrs von der leyen. we in parliament, but also the council and the presidency of the council, have been very active. some people - also here in the house - have said before the german presidency that angela merkel is tired, that she has only one year left in office and that she is a lame duck. what we've seen in the last six months is world-class, it's not a lame duck, it's a high-flying eagle, alert, acting at the right moment. i hope that all the forthcoming council presidencies will bring this pro-european momentum and willingness to act, and that we can develop europe further in the years ahead. i have one concern, however: for the children and young people in particular, this year has been a complete loss. schools have been partially closed, there is almost no sports in the club, no music lessons, social contacts are limited. as far as i know, there's only one vaccine manufacturer that's doing trials on children. so my appeal to all those in charge is: please don't forget the younger generation and help us to help the younger generation to return to normalcy as soon as possible.
madam president, mr president, i would first like to express my satisfaction with the maintenance of the rule of law mechanism. and thank you for linking it to the budget issue, it's been said and repeated many times. it would have been inappropriate and unacceptable for two heads of state and government, whether polish or hungarian, to have weakened the core of the european edifice, its values, our common values. thank you, madam president, for your opening remarks earlier, in which you said that the rule of law should be enforced as from 1 january 2021. this is important and we needed to hear it today, because this unblocking allowed the budget package to be adopted. on the multiannual financial framework - as you know, i have spoken on several occasions - i would have hoped for an even bigger budget to respond to climate issues. and this budget is going in the right direction: 30% towards the climate, 10% towards biodiversity. i hope that the portuguese presidency will be able to reorient the common agricultural policy in this direction, that of climate and biodiversity, and that it will take account of the environmental and social challenges of this common agricultural policy. and then there is the recovery plan: 750 billion euros. the commission's mechanism, which is a good example of european solidarity, is a good example. the mechanism is different for the allocation of funds and for the reimbursement of funds. here, too, it is at the heart of the european project. finally, i am very pleased to see that the door is now open to own resources. of course, the goal is not achieved as we hoped. but the fight over own resources, and particularly over the financial transaction tax, must continue. there it is, the future of the european union. it is the europe of tomorrow that will illustrate this through the question of own resources.
i speak estonian as my mother tongue. mr president, i am very pleased to hear the song of praise and the beautiful speeches on the success of the european council. i only have a minute and a half left, so i'm going to summarize two things briefly. first, 750 billion euros for the recovery fund: of course, this is a theatre of the absurd, where everyone still praises the idea that it is a very good idea, should have borrowed even more. but no one wants to talk about the fact that there are times in history where we know what happens to a wild coin, to the printing of the , and it never ends well. so maybe nobody has solved the question of how we're going to pay this money back in 30 years, and the fact is that it requires the introduction of new taxes. perhaps in order to print money today, as if for a good cause, we will create a situation where we will have to impose new taxes on the citizens of the european union in a pan-european way, and that means also opening up and amending the treaties again. and that in turn leads to a lot of legal-legal questions about whether it's even legal. for example, in estonia in my country the opening of the treaties would mean a new referendum. it is a 2012 ruling by the estonian supreme court that opening up the treaties, which would be necessary to do in order to introduce new taxes across the eu, would mean a referendum. and i'm the first to start campaigning in my country so that people say, no, we don't want more federalisation or a concentration of tax policy in the hands of the european commission. and finally, as far as hungary and poland are concerned, i would say, you know, this is an economic union, not a political, social federation, where we go and teach the poles and the hungarians what they have to do there. so, my time is up, thank you, and i guess every union eventually falls apart. thank you!
