madam president, the horrible scenes from australia have shown that climate change and biodiversity loss go hand in hand. the scale of the damage is unprecedented. we are speaking about hundreds of thousands of animals and a lot of the nature of australia, which is a unique biodiversity ecosystem in itself, having been destroyed. the scale of this damage is something that we also need to reflect on – that we are not prepared to adapt, and be prepared for the damage that climate change is going to inflict on us in europe as well. we need to be better prepared to address forest fires in europe, we need to increase our climate ambition, and we have to make sure that countries like australia do their part as well. in this situation, i think it’s important that from the european side we show solidarity to the australian people and put particular emphasis on addressing the biodiversity loss in australia – there the government of australia needs our help, but when it comes to the climate policies, they need a very urgent push.
mr. speaker, the core issue is what caused the fire. the wildfires in australia are not caused by the alleged climate change. there, as all over the world, there are annual major fires during the dry seasons. is there anyone who would argue that climate change has raised the temperature so much that it is starting fires on its own? that's the kind of crazy stuff you hear. in reality, fires are started by man, either intentionally or by accident, or by lightning. in australia, a large number of people have been arrested for intentionally starting fires. this climate hysteria is now used to justify everything possible and impossible. for many hysterical preachers, it has developed into a serious obsession and a fanatical religion.
on behalf of the id team. mr president, freedom of movement is what allows organised crime to operate almost freely. the european union's external borders are only controlled to the east, and the rest of the borders are leaky as hell. when internal borders are nominal, there is no obstacle to the movement of criminals. any mob of bastards can come at any time, anywhere, even if they're posing as refugees. what does the european union have to say about this? it says, "welcome to the icu, how can we serve you?" boundaries are for love and self-defense. a state without borders is not a state. are we beginning to believe that multiculturalism, in the form in which it is now invading us from africa and the middle east, is not a blessing but a curse and a mortal threat?
mr president, the eu is buying into its green deal with those member states which are still dependent on fossil fuels. if the total amount of the just transition fund is set at an estimated 100 billion, it will most likely be channelled to eastern europe. the green deal will not be expensive only for eu countries that use a lot of coal, such as poland. countries such as finland, which are climate models, will have to reduce their emissions even more radically, at the risk of losing the competitiveness of their own industry. finland, which has made and is making emission reductions at its own expense, is now paying for the emission reductions of others. finland has long distances, cold winters and a small internal market, so there are enough challenges without the eu having to add to the burden. the green deal is a way of getting the nation states to engage in a planned economy. this has nothing to do with the market economy.
mr president, the just transition fund is a vital part of the green deal. it is necessary to ensure that the costs of transition are not already borne by the disadvantaged. the conditions under which we support the regions most affected by the transition must be very precise, so that no euro goes to the wrong address. the aid must be strongly conditional on real and effective climate action and the target must genuinely support the people of the area concerned in order for the transition to be truly socially just. these include improving energy efficiency, climate action that best reduces the cost of housing, retraining of those in carbon jobs and the direct creation of genuinely climate-resilient jobs. and this leads us to the conclusion that all solutions must support and reinforce the good principles of the social pillar. everyone must have equal access to education and to the labour market, because if we take social justice into account in all climate solutions, we can transform our society not only into a carbon-neutral society, but also into a socially better society for all europeans.
madam president, the green deal is most ambitious plan that europe has had for decades. it has to be that: the climate demands it, the youth on the streets demand it, but also business leadership demands it. this is a chance for europe to modernise and take global leadership also when it comes to the economy and business and create a circular economy in europe and export that knowledge abroad. but this is not happening if we don’t show that we can also deliver. the risk with the financing that you are proposing is that it’s still quite hazy. we have eur 7.5 billion, which is on paper. everything else is a bit unclear as to whether it is actually additional. also, on those eur 7.5 billion: we have to be very clear that it is additional action, not just something that legislation would demand anyway. when it comes to the eib, we also have to be very, very clear that that’s something that creates additional movement towards low carbon economy, and not just financing something that the public sector does anyway. so this is something that the commission now has to work on: deliver stringent conditions for getting rid of fossil fuels and actually finance solutions that are viable in the long term, not just interim solutions. good luck with that.
mr president, securing the resources of the tff is a challenging but possible task. in addition to the limited new money, it is indeed necessary to be able to use existing financial instruments such as the eib and invest europea, their money, for this purpose. one third of the eu budget is currently spent on regional policy, or cohesion policy. this money, too, must be able to be used for this purpose, for a sustainable transition, without compromising the objectives of cohesion policy. the resources of the fund must be directed primarily to those regions where the abandonment of coal, and not peat, will cause the greatest material and social problems. the fund should also finance the transformation of industrial processes into low-carbon and climate-sustainable processes. this is also necessary to prevent european industry from leaking carbon.
mr. president, iran, led by radical islamists, is the biggest threat in the region. over the years, iran has deployed its soldiers, practically sister armies, across the middle east, causing chaos and destruction. iran has two great objectives: the development of nuclear weapons, which it has never renounced, and the final destruction of israel. for this reason, the lowest threshold for nuclear weapons is in the middle east. israel, the only democracy in the middle east, will not sit idly by and wait to be destroyed. it would be wiser if europe could somehow avoid interfering in the present situation. i just don't think that's going to be possible. when oil runs out in those areas, the next step is the camel age.
mr president, in totalitarianism, cooperation is only with those who agree. in the opinion-making process on the future of the eu, our id group has been ignored. the eu's future project identifies nationalism and brexit as threats to be fought. who are they a threat to? not to the people, certainly not to the sovereignty of the nation-states. instead, they are a threat to the eu's socialist superpower project and to the eu leadership, which believes that socialism must be tried once more. brexit has caused a panic reaction which has seen the flags of the mps being taken from the seats of the mps. there is a debate here about the need to involve citizens in the debate, but that does not seem to be the case for everyone. you keep saying that populists are not allowed to be in the debate, but citizens are. just you wait the future belongs to... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, communism, nazism, islamism, they are the same religion, very bloody. and we should learn a lesson from that here in europe, too, that we should not allow such people to take power. but the fact is that we have not discussed the winter war, which finland fought alone against the leftist red army. and it was all because of the stalin-hitler divide. it was a declaration that put finland under the control of russia or the soviet union. they divided it up, but russia did not succeed because finland, as a courageous nation, resisted. now russia is writing history in the style that finland started. small finland started that war, even though the division of the front lines had already been done before, and history is written like this. we should learn from this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the world’s biodiversity is reeling and it’s manmade. we are not just destroying living conditions by increasing climate change, but also through the overconsumption of resources, overexploitation and the way we are producing our livelihoods – that is affecting the whole future of biodiversity and the flora and fauna of this planet. the world’s top scientists are warning that even a million species will disappear from the planet by 2030 if we don’t act and change our behaviour. so it’s obvious that the cop meeting on biodiversity has to be a similar meeting as paris was for climate. we need legally binding targets because none of the previous targets we’ve had globally have been met. so we need implementation, we need a legally binding process, so that all countries will increase their protected areas and will change the way their economies work. that’s why in the european parliament and in the green group we want to push for a 30% target for both marine and terrestrial protection that will also affect and apply to european union countries. that’s what the commission should work on so that we also, as the first big actor in the cop meeting, will say that we are prepared to do this within europe – make it legally binding. we need to restore also areas that are damaged. this is a big part of protecting diversity and reversing the state of biodiversity. that also has to be included in the targets. finally, i would like to mention a totally different big ethical challenge that has to do with human technology – that applies to gene drives. there are companies and organisations developing a technology that can wipe out fauna – a whole population of mosquitoes, for example – if it’s prematurely put into nature and we greens want a moratorium on this technology so that it’s not used in a way which has harmful consequences that are totally unknown and could be totally unprecedented. (applause)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, biodiversity is not only a value in itself, but also an essential element in adapting to climate change. the stronger the biodiversity, the better the ability of our planet to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead. we have to admit that we have an emergency on our hands. the biodiversity of the world is declining at an alarming rate. that is why it is sad and unbelievable that the eu failed so badly in its biodiversity targets for 2020. restoration is important, but first we must be able to stop its decline. if we are to stop the loss of biodiversity, we must intervene at the root. they're found in agriculture, forestry and land use change. the cap must be reformed to meet both the paris agreement and biodiversity objectives. the reform of agricultural subsidies in the form now proposed will not do this. we must move towards organic farming techniques and away from monoculture farming. forestry is also a very important element. our forests are home to 80 percent of all species, and how we use our forests is absolutely essential to biodiversity. there is much talk of deforestation and the offer of afforestation, but afforestation is not the answer to the loss of biodiversity. a species can only go extinct once, and at this moment, the number of species threatened with extinction is at an all-time high. the new 2030 strategy should include binding and measurable targets and increase the number of protected areas to at least 30% and restore at least 30% of degraded ecosystems by 2030.
madam president, it’s the final countdown. next friday will be a glorious day for the united kingdom. brexit is the victory of the common british people against multinational corporations, special interests and other elites. the 2020s is the decade when the nation state makes the ultimate comeback in europe. the supranational, unaccountable bureaucracy will be rolled back in favour of real democracy at national level. britain will triumph outside of the eu. the island nation began a shining movement that cannot be stopped. farewell to the brexit party, i love you guys.
mr president, thank you for the introduction. your message was quite positive, i took note of it. you didn't seem too worried. however, you stated that the debt ratio is still 80%. in the emu treaty we have decided that in each country it should be 60%. in addition, over the last two or three years, the ecb has apparently put about eur 3 trillion of money into the market. and now my question is: do you see any threat in the market that a bubble like the one that was experienced in abundance ten years ago is peeping around the corner? in this respect, do you still have a calm and confident attitude towards the achievement of a balance in the european market?
mr president, three months ago in this parliament, in this house, we declared a climate emergency. a month after that, the commission came forward with its answer: the green deal. it was supposed to be ambitious climate leadership from europe, and now we are here today looking at a list where we continue funding fossil gas projects on a massive scale. if we are honest about it, this is nothing more than self—betrayal. this is not the climate leadership that our youth and the climate movement are expecting of us. so the commission has to think again about not continuing the policies of the past, but instead investing in the future. the un environment programme’s emissions gap report called on the eu to refrain from any investment in fossil fuel infrastructure, including new natural gas pipelines. we are locking our emissions to a level which is unsustainable for decades to come. so i appeal to the parliament that we vote down this list and start a green deal today rather than just talking about it.
mr president, the 1967 israeli border is not realistic anymore, because the circumstances in the region have changed completely in the past 50 years. the americans have promised to invest usd 50 billion in the palestinian state if trump’s israeli–palestinian peace plan is implemented. israel will also commit not to build any new settlements for the next four years. at the same time, this treaty will safeguard the security of the state of israel. the eu should support this plan. this could be the last chance to achieve lasting peace after many decades of violence. it is time to put an end to this pro-launch and hard conflict. the eu should not object to this deal because the eu hates trump.
mr president, the un has repeatedly stated that the construction of settlements in occupied territories is illegal under international law. the us model is therefore totally unsustainable from the point of view of international law. it is also totally contrary to the two-state model, which would also guarantee the palestinians their own state. whatever the model for peace in this region, it must guarantee the palestinians their own state, full freedom and the full right to decide their own affairs. this trump peace plan is something else. it gives israel fertile farmland and the palestinians desert. it has fragmented the palestinian territories so that the palestinians are continually subservient to israeli control. trump's proposal is probably the worst peace proposal ever made for this region. i hope that the high representative will take proactive action to bring the israelis and palestinians to the negotiating table in order to bring about a genuine two-state peace model in the region.
i believe that it is very important, mr president, commissioner urpilainen, that this strategy approaches africa through a genuine partnership of equality and equity. it must be a genuine partnership in education, trade and climate change solutions. africa and its development are in many ways a very important issue for the future of the world, but africa as a continent is so vast and so big - as big as the important issue of mr tobin - that it would take a week to discuss it. i would like to highlight one aspect which i hope to see strong and concrete in the future strategy, namely the status of women and girls. improving the status of women will increase opportunities for development in all areas. as in europe, no continent or country can survive without the other half of its population. the status of women also improves the status of girls, their access to education, sexual health and also family planning, where the number of children is a free and positive choice, not a compulsory one. i hope that this, commissioner urpilainen, will be reflected strongly in the future strategy.
mr president, in order not to forget the truth, the survey of jews in europe showed that violence or the threat of violence was directed mainly at them by muslims. second, the biggest threat is the far left and the far right. all this persecution must, of course, be dealt with firmly. racism as a word has experienced a full-blown inflation. racist acts are particularly directed against all nationalists. and in this courtroom, that accusation is heard very often. when you run out of facts, you can at least accuse others of being racist and then brag about it. the pharisee was happy that he was not like that wretched publican. hate speech is a newly developed language for attacking dissenters, that is, nationalists, and even for passing judgments in various courts.
mr president, more money from the member states to the eu budget, that has been the clear message of the debate. i think 1.07 per cent may be a little too low. i hope, however, that we will have the courage to assess the priorities for which the common funds are being used, as well as the division of labour between the eu and the member states on many important issues. i think that the member states themselves must also have a greater responsibility than they do now, for example, to make up for the regional disparities in their own countries. the development gaps between countries have narrowed, but within many countries the intra-country development gaps have not narrowed. the member states must therefore take the necessary steps to ensure that eu and national funds are used in a way that promotes genuine and balanced regional development. or research and innovation funding: the eu's success directly requires a substantial increase in resources. here too, the member states have a responsibility. many countries are under-investing in education, research and innovation. the member states themselves must also be prioritised and placed where it is wisest both for the member state itself and for the common interest of the union.
mr president, i voted against that list because it contains a number of projects based on fossil fuels. even if one wishes to think of natural gas as a transitional alternative, one must recognise the fact that these investment life cycles can be 40-50 years. it can't be the length of any transition period. we cannot create a new energy infrastructure based on fossil fuels. it is totally contrary to the paris agreement and totally contrary to the stated climate objectives that this parliament has set for itself and for the commission. as these projects now move on to further consideration, i hope that in the further consideration the commission will look at these projects bearing in mind that this parliament has declared a climate emergency, this parliament has committed itself to the paris agreement and this parliament has committed itself to a carbon neutral europe. therefore, projects that are in conflict with climate objectives should be removed from this list.
mr president, the biggest problem in the euro area is the growth and stability pact, which is destroying the countries, making active fiscal policy impossible and making it impossible to invest in social welfare, which is the wisest economic policy ever. it also makes it impossible to invest in climate and to move towards a carbon-neutral society. the ecb has the same obligation as everyone else to participate in climate work, and it is entirely possible within its mandate to do so, because if the mission is to maintain price stability, carbon risk is a big risk to price stability. in recent years, billions of dollars have been created out of thin air and then billions of dollars have been pumped into the financial markets to support the problems caused by financial scammers. the same effort and the same amount of money should be able to be directed towards climate action. one option, which unfortunately was rejected in today's vote, is for the central bank to commit itself to buying green bonds from the investment bank. that would be entirely within the mandate and it is a pity that parliament rejected this proposal and that is why i voted against this resolution.
mr president, commissioner, the list of things i would like to see in this strategy is long, but i would like to mention one thing that would be really important: sexual health. sexual health is every girl's business, regardless of what religion, what culture, what politics prevail. it is every girl's right, and i hope the future strategy takes a strong stand on this. on the way to a truly truly equal society, we have to affirm many things. one of them is the position of women in the labour market. the position of women in working life is strongly influenced by the responsibility of caring for children, the responsibility of taking care of children. it is affected by the availability of day care, the availability of early childhood education, the quality of it, the availability of it. in finland, the government has just introduced a new family leave model which allocates equal leave between father and mother and thus improves the position of women in the labour market, improves their wage development and has an impact on the development of pensions.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, once again we owe a debt of gratitude to the journalists, to the independent journalists who have made valuable revelations in telling us how money really moves, contrary to the rules we have. what is particularly shocking is that this is happening in a country where a third of the population lives on less than two dollars a day. hundreds of millions, billions have been taken out of the country, and many european consultants, lawyers and lawyers have helped in this - even the authorities have been involved in supporting this activity. our group has long called for a tightening of the rules, a real change. it is now fair to say that we are unlikely to get away with these directives, which are implemented in a different way at national level. we need a single legislative framework, and this is what the financial world itself is calling for. this is also the wish of the banks. so it is time for a change, and that also requires better control at european level.
mr president, who of us wants to have a house full of uninvited guests, potential terrorists? we have a situation in finland, in the north, where 35,000 refugees came with the name of a refugee in 2015. as a result, the rape of children and youths is exploding. so who's gonna be watching this when these kids come in? we also had women and children, according to the finnish media, but i personally went to see at the border: 500 people a day, i counted them. they were all young men. last night, the media made us believe that women and children came here. my eyes don't lie. i think journalists and the media have some kind of lens in their head. who is responsible for the fact that an illegal immigrant like this slit the throat of a young woman in finland? who is responsible for these? ((the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 171 (8))).
the answer to the blue card question. - it's about human trafficking. at present, it is similar to the drug trade, and there is even more money involved than in the drug trade. the rules are also the same, so that the rule of law cannot intervene in the crimes of these people who themselves do not care about anyone's human rights.
mr president, commissioner, there is a saying in finland that the beginning of all wisdom is the recognition of facts. if we accept the facts, we accept that voluntary measures have not been sufficient. if they were, our farms would already be carbon sinks instead of emission sources. one-sided farming, which kills biodiversity, would already have been stopped, and pesticides, which are poisonous to both nature and humans, would no longer be used. i am not saying that farmers should be blamed or punished. they have the know-how, but our common agricultural policy, our agricultural aid and this strategy must guide them in the direction of a more sustainable change in the principles of agriculture. consumers are increasingly interested in ethical and ecological products. those who can afford it are willing to pay even more for it. therefore, aid should support ecological and ethical production models and labelling should help consumers to find these products in a reliable way.
mr. president, the world is on its knees in the face of this pandemic. this virus cannot become a permanent commuter, this virus must be fought. it must be fought together, it must be fought at national, european and global level. we've been able to fight viruses in a way that we've gotten rid of them before in the history of the world. we must also get rid of this, because it is the only way in which we can really get back to a normal routine. unfortunately, the coronavirus will cause another euro crisis. i would like to ask the former president of the ecb, mario draghi, what he has been thinking about for the last ten years, when he has been reviving? we've had a boom time. he's been resuscitated. now the food is eaten and the means are exhausted. in the history of the world, no monetary union has ever lasted or endured without federal structures, without a federation. we're going to talk about corona bonds. we must not use this crisis as an excuse to complete the so-called eurasian union, to have a common finance minister and to have a real federation, which nationalists have long said is not in the national interest. it's not! we have found that the more integration in the euro, the more collective suffering it causes. after every crisis, our countries are only more in debt. it is time to create an exit mechanism for the euro. let those national states which are not suited to the euro flourish with their own currency. the world will be different after this crisis. from globalism to nationalism, because only the nation state can act effectively in its own national interest.
madam president, i would like to congratulate great britain: they just saved around eur 80 billion because they were late on the corona package. so nobody in britain would even dare admit voting against brexit. the european commission’s proposal for a recovery fund is another step towards a centralised debt union. this proposal is illegal, according to article 125. the commission also wants eu own sources of taxation passed by the member states. in the eu a large part of its economic problems would be reduced if the monetary union, the euro, were dismantled. according to a study, finnish exports would be 40% higher in their own currency. i want my money back.
madam president, last month, the commission’s website read that the eu must not finance its own budget by borrowing. now this finance debt limiting specification has been deleted. the rule of law is a joke in the eu because the eu does not follow it. an eternal question from whom the money is taken and to whom it is given. ms von der leyen emphasises that member states should not think of their own good, but the common good. what is the common good? in 2011, it was the french and german banks. now we should support the italian and french banks. by how much must all countries first become over-indebted before this madness ends?
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the socialist group is very pleased that the german presidency has taken anti-money laundering seriously in its programme. we are also pleased that the commission is keeping its promises and has prepared comprehensive proposals on what needs to be done. there's a lot of money laundering going on. europol estimates that one percent of the national income is involved in this illicit trade, and only one percent of this money is ever returned to society. so it's time to do something radically different. our group supports the view that the time for directives is clearly over. binding eu legislation is needed. the commission is also in favour of a european supervisor. there must be a european institution which can ensure that money laundering problems are tackled in all the member states. in addition to this, we are prepared to go a little further. we would have liked to see sanctions, proper sanctions for errors, and we would also have liked to see better accountability for auditors.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the rule of law is the antithesis of arbitrariness and dictatorship and therefore the rule of law is a fundamental value of the european union. we therefore need a mechanism to ensure that the union's funds are not directed to countries which do not respect the rule of law. this is our duty to the taxpayers. without an independent judiciary, there is no guarantee that suspected abuses can be investigated or addressed. we are now in the process of concluding a long financial framework and an exceptionally large rescue package, and the countries whose rule of law we have long been concerned about are among the main beneficiaries. it is therefore essential that the new financial framework includes a conditionality clause to ensure that all member states respect democracy, the freedom and the rule of law of their citizens. all these are fundamental principles of the rule of law. if they don't respect that, there's got to be a way to freeze the funds. if the union does not strictly adhere to the rule of law, we will no longer be the community of values for which it was founded. therefore, new decisions should not be taken unless at the same time decisions are taken to protect the rule of law.
how, mr president, is the eu going to scrape together the money to repay the hundreds of billions of crowns it has borrowed? the only source of funding that there's some kind of consensus on is the plastic tax. some member states also receive a discount for this. the council said that other new funds would not be available for several years, starting in 2023. this is irresponsible and violates the union's own rule on the balance of the eu budget. if no new sources of revenue are found, the loan will be repaid by increased eu membership fees. as is the socialist custom, the problems are being transferred to the arms of future governments. only this one crisis loan will be paid for decades. i'm sure there'll be more. the corona relief package can still be cancelled. let's get back to the rules. no common debt and therefore no eu tax.
mr. president, the people of belarus deserve the right to choose their own leader. everything the european union does now must be to defend the holding of new, democratic and free elections in belarus. in this situation, the dictator, who has lost all support and whom the people no longer fear, seizes every opportunity to maintain his power. there is one thing that lukashenko has repeatedly clung to: it is hockey. lukashenko has repeatedly used hockey tournaments and his relationships with former nhl stars as a way to showcase his power and show that he is appreciated by the outside world. he's out there skating on the ice with these guests. in this context, the european union cannot accept that our national teams will go to belarus next spring to support the lukashenka dictatorship at the world cup of hockey. we must therefore do everything possible to ensure that the international ice hockey federation withdraws the right of belarus to host these games, and in this respect we must support latvia, an eu country whose government has invoked the same right. the greens are demanding this from parliament and the union as a whole.
mr president, madam von der leyen is wrong. the eu did not succeed; it broke the rules. no matter how much von der leyen is trying to convince people that she’s better than us politicians critical of the eu, she broke the no-bail-out rule. we didn’t. a community that does not follow its own rules has no credibility. the eu is a hypocrite. what europe needs now is immediate tariffs on chinese imports, following the example of the united states, to save its own industrial production and european way of life. we are the ones who want to follow the rule of law and von der leyen does not. that needs to be made clear.
mr. speaker, the people of camp moriah set fire to their own camp. some of the camp's residents also tried to stop the firefighters from working. in return, the arsonists can get a ticket to europe. this is the latest in a series of violent invasions of our continent. the mediterranean is still being flooded by aid boats that are, behind the scenes, human traffickers. they're stalking the libyan coastline, and they're bringing rubber dinghies aboard. why are they being allowed into europe? the real address is where they came from. i hope that we will see the day when the european decision-makers come to their senses and the borders are closed to the march of the people! do you really think that people who come here end up being welcomed?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the rule of law is at the heart of european values. if we can't trust the legitimacy of our societies, the foundation of everything crumbles. in some member states we have seen such worrying developments, and repeatedly, that we cannot move forward together until we have a working mechanism. at the moment, eu money is being used to punish those in power who do not respect, do not intend to respect, and do not want to respect the rule of law. the wording of the presidency's proposal is so weak and the decisionmaking is so weak that this proposal does not give any assurance that it will create a mechanism capable of effectively addressing actions that threaten or violate the rule of law. it is quite clear that if the judiciary is not free and independent, there is no credible way for such a country to investigate possible misuse of funds. this in itself creates such a risk to the budget that it should be sufficient. it should trigger the measures automatically, but the mandate presented does not do so. the commission is faced with a considerable burden of proof to prove that the budget has been misused before sanctions are imposed. the decision should be taken by a proportional majority. the sanctions should be opposed by the majority separately. if actions require majority votes, it is very unlikely that any sanctions will ever be imposed on anyone. but, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not just about protecting the budget, but the rule of law also protects free civil society, democracy, free media, free elections, minorities and freedom of expression. the rule of law guarantees the fundamental rights of a free society and its members, and their implementation requires respect for the law. that is why we need an effective, binding mechanism and i call on the presidency of the council to raise the level of ambition.
mr president, is the eu the right forum to discuss the rule of law? at the same time, people are being allowed into europe who do not respect the rights of anyone, not of minorities or anyone else, who has western principles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the whole debate on the rule of law is another example of the eu's grip. the member states are being stripped of their last remaining powers of decision. every country is different. each country has a long cultural heritage with its own values. it is natural that the models and mandates often formulated by the eu and dictated by the large member states do not suit all countries.
on behalf of the id team. mr president, we finns live off the forest and in the forest. in the forest, i'm home, breathing freely. these concrete floors are polluted, and i see environmental destruction. the forests provide livelihoods, food, raw materials, energy and recreation, as well as wildlife. coal is the food of the forest and it helps it grow. it's a necessary condition for growth. why do we keep silent about the good things? a managed commercial forest is a source of pride for its owner. euro-socialists and urban greens: you are welcome guests in the finnish forest, but remember, you are guests. don't tell me your rules. don't come here to give me advice. don't pay for your coal water with us. the european union is not a party to the conflict. the market-driven green gold industry does not need regulation or subsidies, but freedom of action. finns don't go to the dutch to tell them how to grow tulips. the art of telling italians how to make pizza. i cannot accept the green utopias, regulation and eu aid in the horn report. however, the overall picture is balanced and acceptable.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we are the group of decision-makers who have the opportunity and the responsibility to make decisions to solve climate change. future decision-makers will no longer have the opportunity to do so, because we are running out of time. this autumn, in my home country of finland, record temperatures have been recorded again. this week, plants bloomed that have never bloomed at this time of year. climate change is real, and if we don't make enough decisions, the economic and human costs will be enormous. we are faced with a decision that will either keep us on the side of the paris agreement or not. the commission's proposal does not do that. the commission also changed the 2030 emission reduction target to a net target, which means that the actual emission reduction is well below the 55% proposed by the commission. according to various estimates, it is as much as 3 to 10% lower. this decision shows the commission's true level of ambition, which is too low. the commission proposal falls clearly short of a scientific recommendation, however much the commission tries to make it clear. business and industry have asked for certainty about the regulatory environment in the years ahead, so that they can develop their own activities in line with it and so that investments are properly targeted. this is of the utmost importance for the preservation of jobs and the creation of new ones. the commission's proposal is uncertain. too low ambition today means we'll have to sharply upwardly adjust our target in the coming years. this is much more difficult and costly for everyone than setting the standard with sufficient ambition now. because whether we like it or not, climate change is going to happen regardless of what we think. the committee voted overwhelmingly in favour of a 60% reduction in emissions by 2030. now that the commission has further weakened its proposal, it is vital that this plenary session raises the ambition of the proposal. in order to have a chance of surviving climate change, we cannot go below that 60%, and to keep our word to the millions of europeans who were elected to ambitious and adequate emission reduction targets. the commission has not kept its word, but this house has the opportunity to correct this by voting in favour of a good amending report.
mr president, if the finns had known in the 1990s when they voted for eu membership that the eu was going to control finnish forests too, there would not have been a single finnish mp here. the eu's climate action must not lead to finnish forests having to compensate for the carbon burning in germany and poland. but there are good things about this climate house, like the recognition of the climate benefits of renewable materials and the emerging winners in the transformation of wood products, from massive wood construction to microscopic nanostructures. the good thing about this is that it also aims to tackle industrial carbon leakage. europe has the cleanest industry in the world and that is why the workplace here is a climate-deficit.
madam president, executive vice— president dombrovskis made the right analysis in august by stating that the wirecard breached several lines of defence that should normally protect eu investors. we are now two months further on and i welcome your proposal on digital finance, where you seem to give more supervisory power to the european banking authority. i further call on you and the german presidency to be ambitious in setting up an effective eu supervisory regime to tackle money laundering. only a strong eu supervision, together with an eu financial intelligence unit will tackle money laundering properly. at the same time, the commission is far too silent in the field of the audit review. time and time again, every scandal demonstrates how deeply audit companies are also involved. therefore, it’s high time that you come forward with a proposal for review with an operational separation of the audit and non-audit services under a direct eu supervision. so it’s time for change. we are awaiting the proposals of the commission.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank our rapporteur mr kovařík for the very inclusive way of working. digitalisation of the financial sector is really booming now, partly helped by covid-19. the possible advantages are clear: it can reduce prices and inefficiencies and increase transparency. at the same time, we can’t be naive, and we need to look at it in a very accurate way. indeed, the previous debate on wirecard clearly demonstrates we have to draw the right lessons. half of the crypto—assets transactions is linked to illegal activities, like the buying or selling of illegal goods or services, money laundering, and payments in ransomware attacks. recent findings suggest that 76 billion dollars of illegal activity per year involves bitcoins. therefore we can’t leave any regulatory loophole open. i will come to recent legislative proposals of the commission, but let there be no misunderstanding: for my group, only a strict regulatory framework, which fully ensures investor and data protection, market stability and integrity, and which is properly supervised from eu level together with national authorities, will be good enough. particularly in times of green deal, we can’t be blind to the carbon footprint of the applications, either. i furthermore welcome the ecb stands on central digital currency. we cannot let libra undermine monetary sovereignty. there is no place for digital assets not meeting high-level eu standards. and the same is true for critical third-party providers. cyber security is one of the main risks the financial sector is exposed to today. we need to regulate and supervise these providers properly. finally, it’s critical that no one is left behind. that’s the sincere aim of our group.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, usd 2 000 billion: this is almost twice the amount of the seven—year mff and three times the value of the recovery and resilience instrument and, at the same time, it is at least 30 times the finnish annual budget. suspicious activity reports which were recently leaked concern transactions worth usd 2 000 billion. banks must fill in one of these reports if they are worried one of their clients might be up to no good. the report is sent to the authorities. despite these alarms, banks still often execute these transactions. again, it is thanks to the great work of investigation journalists that this scandal is revealed. it demonstrates once again that the existing anti—money laundering (aml) system simply does not work. it is a swiss cheese, full of holes. for a long time, my group has been calling for a uniform regulatory framework, an aml regulation. regulatory clarity and certainty is needed for the public sector and for industry. we also need stricter rules around rules on consumer due diligence and beneficial ownership transparency. stronger eu supervision is urgently needed too. whether we need a new eu agency or extending the powers of the european banking authority is in a way less important, as long as the job is done far much better than today. therefore, the supervisor should get enough resources, staff and independence and, of course, more eu supervision will only work provided there is good cooperation with the national competent authorities, as they are on the ground. supervising can only be done properly provided data around suspicious transactions flow easily cross—border. therefore, we need a european union finance intelligence unit. detecting and supervising suspicious cases is one thing, tackling and sanctioning is something else. i realise this is a very sensitive field of crime enforcement, and member states like to keep control. nonetheless, if we want to be serious in tackling aml, we need more deterring sanctions. imposing big fines is all well and good, but i have not the impression that it changes fundamentally a culture. here a stronger role for europol is really needed.
mr president, i have a dream. i want all member states to do brexit. as the epp president, manfred weber, has put it, if brexit felt like a success, it would be the beginning of the end of the eu. that reveals that if the uk leaves the eu without a deal, it means that the eu has not even tried to be fair. i have a message for boris johnson. defend your fishing waters, etc. you now have an opportunity to take your sovereignty back. use it.
on behalf of the id team. mr president, deforestation is not so much a european problem. the greatest cause of deforestation is human carelessness. if you can't control it, the roof will go up. africa is one example. billions of dollars of development aid have been poured into the building and the ceiling is getting bigger. it is said that the majority of deforestation is caused by the clearing of fields. this is probably true, but it is not a situation that is improved by complacency, but one that must be followed. the forest area in finland is growing all the time. finland is an example of a country that manages its forests. take a lesson from that. after deforestation, we have an obligation to plant new trees immediately, and this model must be pushed into developing countries as well. in addition, the cost of reforestation is very low. for example, i personally must have planted at least 100,000 trees. the largest of them are about this big. come and see the finnish model for preventing deforestation and increasing the area of forest.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, a new plenary, a new debate on money laundering and a tax scandal. this really is a very bad trend. at the same time, our voters are asking for just one thing: a fairer tax regime where everyone pays their fair share, and a society where money laundering cannot be a way for criminals to have a fast track to land in europe. golden visas: research shows that eu member states have attracted around eur 25 billion in foreign investment over the last 10 years thanks to golden visa programmes. investments are important, but so are our values – today, more so than ever. cyprus leaks and the names revealed are worth discussing. with enough criminal money, you can buy legal entry to the european union, and right-wing politicians in cyprus seem happy to facilitate this. it’s a disgrace for the whole of the european union. the contrast and indifference with respect to the burning moria refugee camp could not be bigger. i agree with the commission that these schemes pose risks for the member states and for the union, so this habit must end. in an equal europe, there should be no room for golden visa programmes; eu passports and visas are not commodities. therefore, council presidency, commissioner, i urge you to get your acts together. let’s ban these programmes completely. let’s make europe a better and safe place for ordinary people – not for criminals.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the state of the energy union report highlights both the successes and the failures of the european union in this field. we have over-achieved the energy targets for renewable energy for 2020, but obviously these targets are still modest. now when parliament is pushing for a higher ambition of 60% emission reductions by 2030, we have to look for a similar target for renewable energy to hasten the energy transition and also to make sure that it is european industries that create those jobs in energy revolution. but there are also a lot of failures and one is obviously the increasing amount of fossil fuel subsidies. we still have in 2018 even more subsidies for fossil fuels than in 2015. the eur 50 billion we are using on fossil fuel subsidies is three times more than the amount that we are spending on wind power in 2018. so the commission has to force change in this field and has to make sure that the member states get rid of fossil fuel subsidies, as parliament has pushed for.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, as the ect is being modernised, it is essential to make it support the transition towards carbon-neutral societies. at present it does not do so, but on the contrary, it allows companies to bring actions against states that want to change their legislation and thus their energy mix towards a sustainable carbon-neutral model. the investment protection of the treaty protects fossil fuels, despite the fact that we know that they are significantly exacerbating the climate crisis. in addition, the investment protection clause contains a huge problem for democracy. legislative changes are made by governments that have come to power through popular elections. when companies are given the opportunity to challenge these democratic decisions in the name of investment protection, they are given the right to challenge the opinion of the people in the elections. even now, corporations can hold governments hostage by threatening arbitration if the government wants to ban coal, for example. it allows climate action to be blocked, watered down or rejected for fear that it will lead to a multi-billion euro lawsuit. when we passed the climate act, we passed the clause that all our policies must be in line with the objectives of the climate act, the paris agreement, as it is written in the climate act. the ect is in complete contradiction with the objectives of the green deal. it does not contain any targets for reducing emissions or solving the climate crisis, and this needs to change in a fundamental way. commissioner, are you prepared to give up and withdraw from the agreement if agreement on fundamental changes is not reached within a reasonable timeframe?
mr president, the agreement reached last night is historic. it gives the subject satisfaction and the resulting solution set is easy to support. the agreement on the seven-year budget of the european union as it has now been agreed will bring about much needed good things. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have not yet ratified the convention. it is also important that we now have an agreement on the eu's own resources. it will secure the eu budget for the coming years and will also make it possible to finance a large recovery fund. and, most importantly, that money should be coming in in a way that is fairer in terms of taxation and does not mean interfering with the taxation of the member states. for example, the eu's carbon tax is something that is sure to have widespread support. but the agreement on the rule of law is particularly historic in this decision. for the first time we have reached an agreement that the use of eu funds will be conditional on respect for the principle of budgetary integrity and the rule of law. it is therefore significant that in future the condition for being able to receive eu own resources will be the respect of fundamental principles of the rule of law. it means a court system and a free press. i will support this solution and i believe that it will be very widely accepted in finland.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget now before us is not a routine budget. it is an extremely important budget for all of us for two reasons. firstly, this budget must launch a real transition towards a carbon-free europe, to implement the green transition to which we are all committed. secondly, this budget must also be the instrument with which we can lift europe out of the euro crisis and into a new period of growth. and these two things still have to support each other. i am glad that the budget proposal now before us is good in its basic outlines and supports these two big issues. more money for research and university research and innovation is a necessary condition for europe's success. another important principle is that 30% of the budget should be used to combat climate change. they're big steps forward. i would like to add one more point, however, which i consider important and which could be made more explicit in this budget. it's anti-money laundering and the resources that go with it. billions continue to flow in money laundering outside of other functions of society, producing a tax burden for those who have to pay the taxes. it is therefore important that we make progress next year in the fight against money laundering. in this context, it is particularly important that the money of our police, europol, is properly spent. i hope that this will be improved during the current parliamentary term. i am also pleased that the 2021 budget is the first budget to be conditional on respect for the rule of law. it is a major decision and will impose obligations on all member states equally. in this way we preserve the union's ability to act and also its credibility both in the eyes of its citizens and in relation to the outside world. i can support this budget proposal.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, this mifid quick fix aims to support business suffering from the covid impact. that has been heard from the commission. my political group fully supports measures helping business, in particular in these difficult times of covid-19. that is what business needs – financial support – but it needs it now in the days, weeks and months to come. that is why the s&d group took the lead for the eu recovery fund and welcomes the eib’s eur 25 billion pan-european guarantee fund supporting smes. at the same time, we are fully aware that there is a deeper structural problem with a lack of equity financing of the european union businesses. this needs structural solutions, with the right level of investor protection. this is the reason why my group wants the commission to come forward with an ambitious reform of the mifid rules by mid next year, after full consultation of all stakeholders, and based on a serious impact assessment. indeed, structural long existing problems cannot be solved in a hasty way via a quick fix. that is the reason why we had rather strong reservations around the mifid quick fix from the start. we fail to see the clear link between this proposal and the covid-19 crisis. in particular as these rules will only be applicable at the earliest second half 2021. so let’s be clear: we will not allow the covid-19 crisis to be used as an excuse for a deregulation agenda, and this is a real threat here. this quick fix, or, as some have proposed, a mini review should not become a maxi review. therefore my group, together with the greens, tabled a very targeted amendment on the review of the position limits in derivative contracts. this should make it possible to address a specific problem in emerging energy markets, which are suffering the impact of covid, instead of removing a balanced system which we have agreed during the last mandate period. secondly, if we want to convince investors to invest in the market, transparency around the costs is critical. unbundling rules are introduced by mifid ii to allow for a more transparent reporting of costs, and that has to be accepted also in the future. therefore, we proposed a strong review clause and this reform needs to be well prepared based on facts and data and after consultation with all the relevant stakeholders. as the s&d group, we are looking forward to such a balanced reform which also protects investors and helps businesses. we are also ready for cooperation in the future.
(introduction without a microphone) ... divided, democracy, minority rights, women's rights are under threat. the image of minorities as enemies is constructed, and then their rights are reduced on the basis of that image. that's why there's a lot at stake at the next council meeting. are we the union that invests in climate action, research, innovation, the green transition and the future through the longterm financial framework? are we a union that does not compromise on its fundamental values, that defends the legality, the rule of law and democracy of our society? the tripartite compromise on the rule of law mechanism is a good one. it includes a preventive element on the beneficiaries of the last-named aid, their status is protected and a functioning decision-making process. this is in line with parliament's demands and position, but it cannot be ignored. democracy is not negotiable, because the opposite of the rule of law is authoritarian arbitrariness. a functioning rule of law and free courts guarantee the fundamental rights of citizens and the freedom of individuals and societies. although some countries are mentioned in this debate, i would like to remind you that this mechanism is not designed against any individual member state, but that these demands for the rule of law and free societies apply to all member states.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would like to start by telling my colleagues that this is not about any ideology or any politics. this is about human rights, equality and non-discrimination. that is why this first lgbtq strategy in history has been so long awaited and so welcome that i would like to thank the commission for it. its importance has been emphasized in this time. at a time when in many countries the rights of sexual and gender minorities are trampled and even presidential elections are marred by homophobic hate speech. the importance of this strategy is even greater during this period. it contains many good points and i myself would like to emphasize that i am pleased that the particularly vulnerable position of asylum seekers belonging to sexual and gender minorities has been taken into account. this has been recognised as a real problem and development needs have been identified. this section is very well written, but it is in complete contradiction with what we know about the new convention on migration and asylum. i hope that these well-written words, which guarantee the legal protection of every applicant, will be incorporated into the eu's entire refugee policy.
mr president, the council has taken important decisions on climate. european climate policy is often described as the eu doing more than ever before. this is true, but it does not mean that we would still do enough. the commission president, mrs von der leyen, said that setting a target was easy, the challenge was to work towards it. unfortunately, it now appears that the objective of climate adequacy is very difficult for the commission and the council. the council adopted its position on the main elements of the climate law. the 2030 emission reduction target was set at 55%. as far as the net allowance is concerned, this means that the actual reduction in emissions will be much lower, by various estimates, by between 3% and 10%. it's hard to see how decisions are still made that are under scientific advice. this is bad news for the climate, but also for business and industry. the climate act sets us a goal of being carbon neutral by 2050. this objective is also in the interests of the council. if we do not set the intermediate target at a sufficient level now, we will have to make a strong correction in the coming years, and this will be much more costly and much more difficult than setting the target at a sufficient level now and thus guaranteeing a stable operating investment environment for business, industry and industry in the coming years and thus protecting jobs. finally, mr president, both the longterm financial framework and the rescue package contain climate finance earmarked for the environment. very good decision, but the next step is to prepare for this money to be used in a genuine and effective way. we can't afford any greenwashing.
mr president, this is indeed a historic day and a historic event that we are dealing with. the big rescue package can now begin to affect and safeguard economic activity in europe, create new jobs and safeguard old ones. the next important thing is that these funds are used properly. the member states have a great responsibility. the commission must be prepared to take this matter forward too, ensuring that the money is used properly. i am particularly pleased about the rule of law. finally, we have reached a solution which makes the use of budgetary resources conditional on compliance with fundamental eu standards. it wasn't perfect, but it's a masterpiece. the most important thing is that the commission should start applying this principle from the beginning of the year. that's what the people expect. parliament must play its part in ensuring that the commission does its part to make european values present in the lives of all europeans.
mr president, why is the eu not so attractive that norway and switzerland would like to join? why did the united kingdom, an old civilized nation, want to leave the european union? has this been considered in the eu? has the eu looked in the mirror, or is the culprit always somewhere else? the uk has already concluded 60 trade agreements, but it seems almost impossible to conclude one with the eu alone. the british wanted their immigration policy back, their border controls back, their own legislation back, their own fishing waters back, and they wanted to get rid of the european court of justice. there's nothing wrong with that if the british want to be an independent nation. the european union must now ensure that the british people get back what they voted for and the eu must stop ruling by fear. what i mean by that is that the eu is happy to scare you that if you leave the eu, this beautiful paradise, you will be badly treated. we should stop scaring each other about the future. who would have thought three years ago that we would be fighting a coronavirus? what will happen to the eu in the future, or to the eu member states? time will tell, but one thing is certain: it's better to be free and poor than rich and a prisoner. i'm actually envious of the british national pride. keep it up, brits, it'll help you get through a tough world.
